I ask the Prime Minister whether his attention has been drawn to a statement made by the honourable member for Boothby on an Australian Broadcasting Commission television programme on 16th March, namely: 
The way sub-editors carve around reports is almost criminal. 
Does the Prime Minister agree with this statement? If so, will he give consideration to establishing a statutory Australian Press Council as requested over many years by the Australian Journalists Association? If he does not agree with the honourable member's remarks, will he dissociate himself and his Government from them and urge the honourable member to curb his immature impetuosity? 

 - Mr Speaker, the matter I wish to raise will nol require the courtesy of the House on this occasion. I -rise to join hands with my parliamentary colleague in New South Wales,  Mr Cox,  M.L.A., and to draw the attention of the Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes)  to the question - and I underline the word question' - of the activities of a particular insurance company under the name of Motor Marine &amp; General Insurance Company. I indicate that that company is in fact a non-tariff company and is registered, as I understand it, in New South Wales, South Australia and Western Australia. Its South Australian address is 40 Pirie Street, Adelaide, and it commenced operations initially in April 1966. My purpose, along with members throughout Australia who have received numerous complaints - and I add mine to them - is to express concern about the policies, attitudes and methods with which this company handles its claims. It is my belief that many people who take out policies with this company are being unfairly and unjustly treated. 
I want to cite a particular claim. There are many more instances that I could sub mit to the Parliament. The claim I wish to refer to is a clear example of the type of treatment this company metes out to its clients. I preface my remarks by stating that I personally can substantiate the facts to be submitted, for I have perused all the correspondence exchanged between the constituent, her solicitor and the company, together with the evidence which supports both the claim and the complainant. A  Mrs Maloney  of 7 Gum Terrace, Clovelly Park, was riding in a vehicle which was involved in an accident on 25th November last year in South Road, Clovelly Park, South Australia. It was not an accident involving another vehicle. She swerved crossing the road, her vehicle hit the curb and rolled over. She promptly lodged an accident claim with this company, and I will quote the correspondence and what transpired. A letter dated 16 January 1970 from the company to  Mrs Maloney  reads: 
We refer to the accident involving the above vehicle, and advise that recently an independent assessor- 
I might indicate that the independent assessor was from the company's office in Sydney - checked your vehicle at our body works. 
As a result of this inspection it was found that the unit was fitted with a bald tyre and as such rendered the vehicle unroadworthy. 
Therefore, as this is a breach of your policy conditions, we regret to advise that we are unable to admit liability for your repairs in this particular instance. 
The solicitors acting on behalf of the constituent received the following letter from the company - and I quote only the relevant passage: 
We acknowledge receipt of your letter dated 5th February 1970 and note with interest the comments regarding the tyre report. We have today forwarded a copy of our file together with your correspondence to our Directors and upon advice from them we will contact you further. Please withhold any action if our answer is not available within the 7 days time limit you have specified. 
The reason given for the rejection of the claim was that the vehicle had one bald tyre. The constituent went to some considerable trouble and got assessors from 5 reputable companies in Adelaide to undertake an inspection of this vehicle. The 5 companies reported and are prepared to go into Court to say that the tyres on the vehicle at the time of the accident were roadworthy. The sole ground upon which the insurance company rejected the claim was the fact that it said that the vehicle had one bald tyre. Correspondence from the company subsequently has not indicated any change of this ground. At the moment the matter rests between the solicitor and the company on the understanding that they will engage an independent arbitrator. The company is reluctant to go to this extent at this point of time. 
Let us look at the set up of the company. Its premiums are much lower than those of other companies in the same field, particularly in South Australia. In fact the woman's premiums for a vehicle with what they call a No. 2 rating was $23.45 per annum. A No. 2 rating is given to a vehicle in relation to which no claim has been made within the preceding 6 years. All the other insurance companies in South Australia, which conform to a standard rale, have a premium of $42.29 for a No. 2 rating. In effect this company's premium was $18.84 cheaper. From the information J have handed to the Minister with respect of the dealings of this company in Western Australia and New South Wales - and its activities have been reported in the papers throughout New South Wales today - it clearly appears to me that this company balances its budget by offering low premiums and by rejecting a percentage of claims. Obviously, because of its low premiums this company attracts those people who can ill afford to contest rejected claims. 
Generally a rigid code of ethics is applied by tariff companies, particularly in relation to life insurance. As T understand the position, they are watched closely by the Commissioner of Insurance in Canberra. Insofar as general or non-life insurance companies are concerned, there is practically no legislation, either Commonwealth or State, which appears to give adequate protection to the public in this area. Those who conform with the standard rate charged would have met this claim unhesitatingly if it had been lodged with them. I am convinced that other insurance companies would welcome an immediate inquiry into the activities of this company and would welcome legislation or regulations which would protect the integrity of those companies in the general non-life field which over the years have built up the confidence and trust of the public. Above all, an inquiry would give the public the protection it deserves. Companies of this nature deserve investigation and inquiry and deserve to be the subject of public scrutiny. I ask the Minister to take the appropriate steps to initiate an inquiry into this company's activities - particularly this claim - to protect the public from the improper actions of this company, and to raise this matter with State Attorneys-General or their representatives to ensure that adequate and protective legislation is given to the public in this regard on a Commonwealth basis. 
With respect to the 2 Bills being dealt with concurrently by the House, namely the Dartmouth Reservoir Agreement Bill and the River Murray Waters Bill, we are in fact being asked to abrogate and destroy an agreement ratified by 3 State governments and by the Federal Government. We are being asked to deny the people of South Australia their legal and just rights. Beyond any doubt the people of South Australia have been sold out. They have been sold up the river by a weak Liberal Government in South Australia. 
Is the Minister for Health aware that patients in mental hospitals in South Australia are being denied both hospital and pension benefits purely on the ground that they are unfortunately suffering from a mental illness and not a physical illness? Is it a fact that people admitted or transferred to certain wards in mental hospitals are denied both benefits? Further, is it a fact that if these same people were admitted or transferred to an approved nursing home or to a psychiatric clinic in a general hospital they would be entitled to either one or the other of these benefits? Is it not a fact that the entitlement of patients in mental hospitals to pensions or benefits is not determined on the patients' illness but on the basis of the ward to which they are admitted? Will the Minister therefore take immediate steps to remove this discriminatory, iniquitous and unjust policy to ensure that the mentally ill are treated with justice and equity? Finally, will the Minister table in the House the charter adopted by the State Ministers for Health at their conference last year on this particular matter? 
asked the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the City of Melbourne Survey into Poverty conducted by the Melbourne University's Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research. 
If so. did the survey establish that 1 aged person or aged married couple in every 5 in that city lives in what the Institute defines as poverty. 
To alleviate this poverty, will be take steps immediately towards an increase in basic age, invalid and widows' pensions by $2.00 per week for the standard rate and $1.00 per week for the married rate. 
Will he supply figures as to the likely cost of this proposal. 
Did the survey also reveal that those who were unemployed or sick for a period of at least 8 weeks in the past year constituted some 13.1% of that city's poor. 
To alleviate the need of these people, will he take steps to increase unemployment and sickness benefits to the rate of age and invalid pension. 
Will he supply figures as to the likely cost of this proposal. 
Did the survey also reveal that 6"r. or 42,300, of that city's children are growing up in acute poverty and that of these children 40% come from families with at least 4 children and 22% are children of fatherless families. 
To alleviate this poverty, will he take steps immediately towards an increase of existing child endowment rates to $3.00 per week for the third child and to $4.00 per week for the fourth child and subsequent children. 
Will he supply figures as to the likely cost of this proposal. 
Will he lake steps to institute automatic annual adjustments of $1.00 to age and invalid pensions until the pension rate is 25% of average weekly earnings and to ensure that these payments will continuously maintain this relationship in the face of inflationary movements which currently erode pensioners' living standards. 
What is the estimated cost of these measures for each type of pension for each year until the level of 25% of average weekly earnings is reached. 
What is the estimated cost of these proposals as a percentage of total current expenditure (a) from the National Welfare Fund and (b) by the Commonwealth Government from consolidated revenue. 
Will he take steps to set up a permanent committee to conduct research into the nature and extent of poverty in the community, to identify areas of need and to develop recommendations on 'need-meeting' processes as our initial major assault in the campaign against poverty. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that there is a growing crisis in education in South Australia, particularly at the primary and secondary levels, and that the State is unable to meet pressing demands in the areas of building, transport, teacher training, administrative costs and salaries. 
Has his attention been drawn to the views of education experts that the situation is the direct consequence of the lack of Commonwealth finance at all levels of education. 
If so, will he immediately recommend a special purpose grant of $20 million the allocation of which to be the sole responsibility of the State, to enable South Australia to meet the crucial needs of its education programme. 
I wish to raise the question of the Chowilla and Dartmouth dams and to make an analysis of where the Liberal Party members in South Australia stand on the issue and particularly where Country Party members stand. There is no doubt where members of the Liberal Party stand on this issue but there is certainly some confusion as far as the Liberal Party, members in South Australia are concerned. In a recent grievance debate the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  in his concluding remarks had this to say: 
But any party that tries to play ducks and drakes on a matte, so important as water is to South Australia deserves the censure it will unquestionably get at die State election to be held soon. 
The honourable member was looking for the adjective 'capricious'. It means: 'guided by whim', 'inconsistent* or 'irregular'. 
When the diversion of the headwaters of the Murray into the Mumimbidgee took place  Sir Thomas  Playford, a Liberal Premier of South Australia, challenged this and as a result of that was able to extract from the then Commonwealth Government in compensation for the diversion of that water an undertaking that the Chowilla dam would be built in South Australia. Subsequently the Chowilla project was ratified by the 3 States and the Commonwealth in 1964. If the word 'capricious' means anything at all it cannot be used to describe the attitude of the Labor Party in South Australia. If cannot be applied to S&gt;r Thomas Playford. Much as I regret to say it, it cannot be applied to the independent  Speaker  in the South Australian Parliament,  Mr Stott.  If anything, one thing above all that can be said of the Labor Party,  Sir Thomas  Playford and the Independent  Speaker  in South Australia is that they have been consistent in trying to safeguard the welfare of South Australia by insisting on the Chowilla dam. 
If the honourable member for Angas wants to accuse any political party of acting purely from political caprice it should be the Liberal Government in South Australia and in the Commonwealth. Let us look at the confusion that exists amongst the Liberal members from South Australia. The honourable member for Angas had this to say on the question of Chowilla: 
Is it possible that Chowilla will be built. Tt is to my interest ultimately that it should be. It is something for which I will fight on behalf of my electorate when I see any possibility. 
When the Bill was before the House the honourable member for Angas gave no indication thai he would attempt to amend the River Murray Waters Agreement to ensure that Chowilla would be built. Let us look at the position of the Country Party. If one looks at copies of Hansard of 8th and 9th April 1970 one will see that the only Country Party member who passed any observations at all on the question was the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull).  In my speech at that time I said: 
What I find singularly odd is that in a press statement early last December the Australian Country Party's Federal Council adopted the South Australian motion calling for a close study of the case for building the Dartmouth and Chowilla Dams at the same time. I wonder what decision the Country Party members in this chamber will make on both of these Bills. 
As I understand it, the honourable member for Mallee was speaking for the Country Party when he said: 
I am not saying when I will build it or when the Government will build it. ... I might even support the building of Chowilla at a later stage. 
He said that it was not correct that the Federal Council of the Country Party had agreed to build Chowilla and Dartmouth together. They agreed to consider investigating the possibility. That was precisely the recommendation implicit in the amendment that the Labor Party moved in the second reading debate. 
Yes. He further said: i  spoke against the Chowilla Dam being built . . . 
Let us not give up the hope of Chowilla being built. 
Then he said: i  say to honourable members opposite: Do not forget about Chowilla; keep it in mind, and every time you get the chance say something about it. 
What are we faced with -today? We are faced with a mountain of confusion. This is what the honourable member for Mallee, speaking on behalf of the Country Party, said: 'I am not saying I would build Chowilla. I might even support it. 1 spoke against its being built.' Surely this is incoherent to anybody who tries to analyse it. Now, one of the reasons why I rose to speak tonight is that the honourable member for Mallee has challenged my colleague, the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby),  to stand on the banks of the River Murray and, as I understand it, to confront him, perhaps with the support of Government Ministers, on the subject of wheat. But now apparently the honourable member for Mallee is going to wriggle out of that and deal with the question of Chowilla. I think it is about time that he found some courage en -the issue and said one way or the other where the Country Party stands on the question of Chowilla. 
And on wheat, in particular. His Part&gt;&gt; is a part of the Government which has failed the Australian people. There arc no two ways about that. What has to be understood is that 10 years work has been done on Chowilla and $6m has been spent on it. Where is the next storage to be on the River Murray? As I understand it, if the computer analysis is of any assistance at all, undoubtedly it will be at Chowilla. 
As regards the question of confusion as to where the next storage will be on the 
River Murray, as I said in my speech on 8th April, there is no doubt in the minds of the independent member in South Australia,  Mr Stott.  After a complete analysis of the waters of the upper river, apart from the dominated councils along the river, the growers throughout the upper river area are supporting the simultaneous construction of both the Chowilla and Dartmouth dams. 
1 am not interested in the Mallee at the moment. In the few moments that I have left at my disposal 1 want to indicate what the honourable member for Angas has failed to inform the House. It is my belief that the Liberal Party in South Australia, which has had no right to govern since 1968, has used the question of Chowilla and Dartmouth as an excuse to hold an election at this point of time, rather than holding an election in March of next year. There are 4 basic reasons for this, and they are sound reasons. The first is that the Government in South Australia knows full well that this year's Budget will not be very acceptable to the Australian people. The second reason is that the ramifications of the Budget will have adverse economic effects on the people of South Australia. The third reason is - and there are no 2 ways about it - that primary industries are in one complete mess because of the ineptitude of this Government for a period of 20 years. This will have an adverse effect on the electors' votes in the country areas of South Australia, if the State election is left until March of next year. The fourth reason why the Government in South Australia is to hold an election at this point of time-and I raise this matter for those people who are not aware of it - is that we have the greatest electoral gerrymander and it is associated with the Upper House in South Australia. It is a national disgrace. The Government in South Australia knows full well that, if it goes to the polls at this point of time, the Upper House is not forced to go to the polls. That House has not faced the electors for 81 years. I believe that these are the basic reasons why the Liberal Government in South Australia has decided to go to the polls at this time. 
I rise, like my colleagues on this side of the House, to support the Bill and clearly indicate that it is our belief that rail gauge standardisation ought to have top priority as it affects commerce and defence. I hasten to point out that I cannot commend the Government on this measure, for reasons which I will point out later. In all conscience I cannot support the ineptitude and procrastination which has been characteristic of this Government over the last 20 years. This is another glaring instance of where honourable members have not received all the necessary details and information to enable them to make a balanced evaluation of the Bill. All we received was the Bill and the Minister's second reading speech. My colleague, the honourable member  (Mr Charles Jones),  was fortunate enough to receive a copy of the report submitted to the Minister. Niether the honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis)  nor I have had an opportunity to look at the report to assess the costs involved. 
This piece of legislation flows from the policy speech of the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  last year, not without, I would indicate clearly, continual and persistent prodding by the members of the Australian Labor Party both in this Parliament and in the South Australian Parliament. Despite the announcement by the Prime Minister in early October 1969, it was widely known throughout South Australia that this project for the rail link between Port Augusta and Whyalla in fact was finalised and was ready for construction and the legislation could have been presented to this House in late February or early March of 1969 with complementary legislation initiated and passed through the Parliament of South Australia. However, it is a fair assumption that the announcement of this piece of legislation was deferred obviously for a political reason. It was a political plum and was utilised throughout the seat of Grey at the last Federal elections. 
The effects of the Bill are set out concisely in the second reading speech delivered by the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Sinclair).  In 1964,  Sir Thomas  Playford implored the Federal Government to get on with the construction of the railway. But here I would hasten to point out that what the Premier of South Australia in 1964 was referring to - this has been taken out of its context - was not the question of the Port Augusta-Whyalla rail link. He was pressing the Federal Government to adhere to and to honour the agreement made in 1949 by the Chifley Labor Government regarding the conversion of the whole of the broad gauge line between Adelaide and Port Pirie to the standard gauge to link Adelaide with the Trans-continental or standard gauge system. Further,  Sir Thomas  Playford was pressing for the construction of a standard gauge railway line to replace the present narrow gauge link between Alice Springs and the lower half of the Northern Territory with South Australia. That is what the then Premier of South Australia was pressing for. Governments of South Australia, irrespective of their political colour, have pressed for these things since 1949. Never mind saying that these things have been pressed for since 1964. 
The project that is proposed in this Bill now before the House was considered by the Federal Government in 1964 to be uneconomic. But it was not uneconomic in the minds of the people who had to commute, in effect, between Port August and Whyalla. It was uneconomic only because it was not economically viable so far as the Broken Pty Co. Ltd was concerned. This is the one project in the town of Whyalla which has determined the necessity to get on with this link. The Government has looked at this matter on the question of priority insofar as the interests of BHP are concerned. The Government has totally disregarded since 1964 the question of how the construction of this link would affect people either in Port Pirie or in Whyalla. 
The Bill provides that the link will be a single line with a length of some 47 miles and will include the necessary siding and a new station to be built at Whyalla. As the honourable member for Newcastle said - and this is contained in the second reading speech - provision is made for 1 freight train service per day each way. Similarly, 1 service per day each way will be provided for passengers. This l;ne will afford a very valuable commercial link between Port Augusta and Whyalla. The current population of Port Augusta is 15,000. In the case of Whyalla, the population is approximately 30,000 and is increasing rapidly. 
This link will have, commercially and otherwise, far wider ramifications and benefits than those that are envisaged in the Bill. As I understand it, a decision was made by BHP to transport its steel products by road to Port Augusta and then by rail to the eastern States and Western Australia. That was the policy announced by BHP some time ago. This link will change that situation. I am reliably informed that over 2,000 tons of steel products are moved each week from Whyalla to Port Augusta and that the amount is on the increase. As a consequence of the completion of the link, it will be possible to transport such steel by rail direct from Whyalla without transhipment en route and, as indicated, it is rather obvious that steel will be able to be transported, as a result of this link, to any part of Australia within 35 hours to 40 hours. 
According to the Minister, the estimated cost of the proposed link is some $7m exclusive of the additional cost of rolling stock. I might point out that one of the very issues upon which the people of South Australia, among a whole crop of others, expressed their gross dissatisfaction was the allocation of Commonwealth public works spending last year in South Australia and works in connection with loans made to the State Government. South Australia, if my memory :s correct, was allocated $ 10.38m as compared with m allocation to Tasmania of $48m. 
The allocation to South Australia was, in effect, some  $660,000  less than  the  allocation for the preceding year. Further, South Australia received the lowest amount of all in the allocation of Federal public works spending over the past 2 years. I might po:nt out, whilst it is not relevant to this Bill nor to the debate, but it is apposite to what I previously stated, that that an obvious fact which the people of South Australia will not overlook is that South Australia again has lost a major public works project to which the Commonwealth Government would have contributed funds. I refer of course to the abandonment of the Chowilla project which, if continued, would have seen the injection into the economy of South Australia of an estimated $65m. 
Does the Minister wish to make a speech? 
It is a pity that the Government did not talk about it. Its people in South Australia would not have lost 8 out of 12 seats at the last election. Frankly, the allocation of a paltry $7m in no way would make a valuable economic contribution to South Australia. 
No. But railways are built for the welfare, progress and development of a State and its people. This the Commonwealth has failed to do for the last 20 years - 
As the honourable gentleman is interjecting, I might indicate that there was no lethargic attitude by either the Labor Government or the Liberal Government in South Australia on this question. The ineptitude clearly has been on the part of the Federal Liberal Government - 
He is obviously a member of your Party,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  How long will he keep on with this? 
There is one aspect of the Bill to which 1 draw the attention of the Minister for Shipping and Transport. Paragraph 4 (1.) of the schedule reads: 
The Commonwealth will at its own expense erect along every boundary of the land over which the route of the railway lies a substantial fire resistant fence capable of preventing cattle, horses and sheep from entering  within  the said boundaries of the said land but shall not be liable to maintain or reconstruct any such fence. 
Whose responsibility will it be to maintain or reconstruct the fence? Will it be that of the South Australian Railways Department, the Commonwealth Government or the private land owner? 
There are several aspects of the Bill on which 1 seek an explanation from the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth).  Within my electorate is the Ashford House School for Cerebral Palsied Children. I take this opportunity of recording my admiration and profound respect for the extremely valuable work done by the staff for the handicapped children, particularly in seeking their ultimate rehabilitation.I draw the Minister's attention to Part III of the Bill and clause 11 which reads: 
the Director-General is satisfied that the equipment is to be used by handicapped children receiving approved training or is to be used otherwise for or in connexion with the provision of approved training, the Director-General may, in his discretion, approve that equipment for the purposes of this Part. 
Does the word 'equipment' in this context include the purchase of buses and educational aids such as books, films, furnishings and orthopaedic aids? I should think that the answer is obvious in respect of books, films, furnishings and orthopaedic aids, but what is the situation with regard to buses? 1 point out to the Committee that the Government's attitude is exactly the same in the sheltered workshops legislation. It never ceases to amaze me that whilst a goods carrying vehicle attracts a Commonwealth subsidy, the Government does not pay a subsidy for buses. The Ashford centre has 7 buses and is in dire need of 2 additional buses which would cost an estimated $7,500. The 7 buses have an average mileage of 50.000 miles per annum and the cost of running them is over $5,000 annually. As the Minister will know, patients are brought to the centre from most parts of the metropolitan area and. indeed, from as far afield as Elizabeth. The children from Elizabeth are obliged to be transported by taxis to Gepps Cross and then they are conveyed by bus to the Ashford centre. 1 put it to the Minister that it is completely unjust and illogical to continue this policy. I cannot foresee any logical argument, that could be advanced by the Minister as to why these centres and sheltered workshops should be denied a subsidy on the conveyance of patients. Many of the cerebral palsied or handicapped children come from low income families and it is of great assistance to them if the. children are conveyed by these buses. I should like the Minister to indicate whether buses will be covered by this clause. If his answer is in the negative, will the Government reconsider this aspect? 
Clause 15 of the Bill states: 
Grants under this Act are payable out of moneys appropriated by the Parliament for the purposes of this Act. 
I ask the Minister: ls it likely that a ceiling will be placed on the amount of money payable in any one year and, if so. will this result in a system of priorities? The other clause to which 1 draw the Minister's attention is clause 7(1.) which deals with the question of buildings and capital grants for buildings. The questions that I would ask the Minister are: In the case of the centre to which I am referring I ask the following question: If it is found necessary to sell the Ashford centre because of sheer economic need - in effect, no longer is the existing centre economically sound because of the cost of maintenance, alterations, renovations and the installation of expensive equipment, and the cost factor is prohibitive - or if the organisation sells the existing established centre in a high class residential area where land values are relatively high so making expansion extremely costly; or if the existing centre or unit were sold, would this money attract the $2 for $1 subsidy under the provisions of the Bill? Finally, if the centre then bought abandoned areas where homes or buildings have to be demolished will such excess costs of clearance and demolition attract the subsidy to cover this expenditure? In effect, what I am asking is: Will these four contingencies attract the subsidy within the provisions of the Bill? 
Thursday, 4 June 1970 
 I address my question to the Prime Minister. In view of the acknowledged burden of taxation suffered by low and middle income earners throughout this country and in view of the Prime Minister's policy speech last year in which he said that his Government would ease considerably this tax burden, can he indicate to this House whether his Government will ease this crushing burden in this year's Budget? 
I join with my colleagues on this side of the House to categorically affirm our belief that the Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Authority should be retained in its entirety in the national interest. The attitude and policy of the Australian Labor Party in regard to this Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation Bill has been made clear by the amendments foreshadowed by the honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart).  If one studies the implications of the Bill it is obvious what is to happen to the current structure and operations of the Snowy Mountains Authority. This Government, with deliberate intent, has set out to scuttle and emasculate the Authority. Having crucified the Authority the Government then proceeds to resurrect it in the guise of this proposed Corporation which is to operate on a commercial basis. As the honourable member for Lang has shown clearly by referring to the restrictive provisions of the Bill, such a concept is a farce. This Government purports to believe in private enterprise and freedom of competition but is attempting to strangle the Corporation by means of this legislation. 
One has to admit that the Government is consistent at least in one direction. Whenever or wherever a public or semi-public organisation or instrumentality is shown to be economically viable and making a profit the Government either hands it over to private enterprise for exploitation or, as in this particular instance, in order to protect the private consultants, it ensures bv way of legislation that freedom of competition will not be one of its attributes or a condition of its operation. 
The Snowy Mountains hydro-electric scheme is the largest developmental project ever undertaken in Australia's history. The speed and efficiency of its construction and the expertise of the men attached to the Snowy Mountains Authority have received world wide acclaim. Nobody disputes that fact. The former Minister for National Development, the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn),  has been extremely vocal in both the achievements of the Authority and, more particularly, its destiny. He made a Press statement on this issue on 1st June 1967. He made ministerial statements in this House on 28th November 1968 and 28th August 1969. He made his last statement on 11th October 1969. I would like honourable members to note particularly the former Minister's statement on 11th October. After heaping plaudits onto the Authority he went on to say: 
Now originally the Snowy Mountains Scheme had many detractors. There were those who said that it should not have been started; it was very expensive. They have said that power is going to be too costly, but I think you would hardly find a person in Australia today who did not realise what a great project this is and what an enormous benefit it will be to the nation. 
I want briefly to analyse this statement. The people of Australia would do well to be reminded of who the detractors were. They would do well to remember that the detractors, the opponents of the Snowy Scheme, were members of this same Government who, when in opposition, so bogged the scheme down on the question of constitutionality and legal provisions that undoubtedly their whole concept of the scheme was to oppose it. They were the people who vented their spleen to the extent of boycotting the official opening. I hasten to point out, however, that they ' were not at all reticent in reaping the kudos, as explained in the book 'Struggle for the Snowy' by Lionel Wigmore, commissioned by  Sir Robert  Menzies. A reader of the book would imagine that it was a Liberal Government which had the vision, courage and foresight needed to start the project, the benefits of which this nation has yet fully to measure. Nothing could be further from the truth. I remind honourable members and the people of Australia that the scheme was introduced by a Labor Government. It was implemented by the Chifley Labor Government and it is to the Labour Party that the nation owes a debt of gratitude, not to the Party which bogged the proposal down with legalism and has a complete and utter aversion to a national development policy. 
 After listening to the speeches made by Government supporters tonight I think it is accurate. The honourable member for Farrer, who was the former Minister for National Development, went on to say: 
So we have now spent, as  Mr Munro  said, $696m on this project and will spend close to $800m before the scheme is completed, lt is of great interest to note that this figure was set some IS years ago. 
He was referring to the figure of $800m. He went on: 
I only wish we could say in government that every other department and form of government is as accurate in its costing as the Snowy Mountains Authority has been. I can assure you that there would be far less worry for the Treasurer if this were so. 
That is a remarkably accurate and telling statement. Let us go a little further. What are the other financial facts which are important if we are fairly to judge this legislation? Apart from the total outlay the Snowy Mountains scheme cost about $800m. Firstly, the Authority has been geared to the supervision annually of work valued at about $40m. This approx mates the amount spent collectively by all the States on rural water development projects each year. Secondly, the Authority has done considerable work in South East Asia in recent years, to a value of about Sim a year. Thirdly, it is admitted that the Authority has been carrying out consultative activity on a relatively restricted scale for years, as reflected in the provisions of this Bill. Its consulting fees now exceed S2m a year. Fourthly, it is understood that the fees paid to foreign consultants run into millions of dollars a year. It is admitted that in the case of a major project in New South Wales the contract would have been let to overseas consultants had the Authority not been permitted to undertake it. Fifthly, and above all, the Snowy scheme when operating W 11 earn between $40m and $S0m a year, and the capital was all provided from revenue. 
The sheer weight of the former Minister's assessment of the competence of the Authority and the sheer weight in terms of capital return - that is, the profitability - and the assets which this nation has reaped and will continue to reap, cut  right across this Government's assessment of the situation made in complete defiance of a vast body of public opinion throughout the country. However, these facts are unpalatable to the Government. What possible justification does it have for refusing to have the Corporation operate the scheme in a free, open and competitive market? lt is admitted by the Minister that the fees charged by the Authority for consulting work are well below the fees charged by foreign consultants. Does the Government challenge the fact that there is no body of consultants, either public or private, in this country which has collectively either the scope or expertise in the field in which the Authority has won world acclaim? This country must retain that asset. I ask the Minister: Is there a glut of consultants? ls there insufficient work or are there' insufficient prospective projects? Has the Government the audacity to claim that there are no further major national projects for which the Authority could be usefully commissioned? If these are the factors on which this- Government has based its assessment, then we say they clearly do not exist. As such they give no justification for the restrictive provisions imposed on the Corporation in this Bill. The only logical conclusion to be drawn from the policy is that what is being done is being done firstly to protect the vested interests of foreign consultants and contractors, as is instanced by the letting of a contract worth $20,342,000 to an American consortium for the construction of the Copeton Dam in New -South Wales and secondly to protect the vested interest of private consultants and contractors in Australia. 
Let me sum up this aspect briefly, if ever an authority - and there are many which have been set up by this Parliament - has justified its continued existence, it is this authority. It has done so if for no other reason - and there are more tangible reasons - than its competence to handle what might be stated in Liberal philosophy as being the central factor in judgment, that is, its competence and efficiency to become an economic and viable unit. This competence is directly attributable to the expertise in the Authority, which makes it second to none in the world. 1 turn to the last part of the Minister's statement. He concludes with this hypocritical peroration - and this is where I take issue on the point that he raised with the . honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Allan Fraser).  The Minister stated: 
Sci,  I repeat what I' have said, but which unfortunately docs not sink in, and that is we arc not disbanding the SMA. -Can 1 repeat that? We are nol demolishing or disbanding the  SMA 
The former Minister for National Development on- 11th October 1969. I would like to quote the words of perhaps the one noted authority in this country who can speak with balanced judgment on this particular problem. I refer to the former head of the Snowy Mountains Authority,  Sir William  Hudson. I am quoting from the 'Australian' of 3rd May 1968. The article states: 

 Sir William, a former head of the authority, told a Monash University Liberal Club group in Melbourne thai many water development projects in Australia could be started if the Snowy organisation were used. He said: 'The Snowy group will be used just for design when the project is finished soon. I can't get an explanation from the Federal Government why the SMA will be just investigating and designing. The Snowy scheme, when finished will earn $40 to $50 million a year and the capital was nearly all provided from revenue. Why can't that $.40 million be used to keep constructions going? We are told thai water development is a Stale function under the Constitution. This was overcome in the United Slates and we can overcome it here - it was overcome for the Snowy scheme. I don't agree with any of these constitutional reasons because they are all hooey talk from those who don't want national development.'  Sir William  said some academic economists had said that irrigation was uneconomical. He asked: 'Where would Israel, California and Arizona be today without it?: The studies he had seen by some academic economists did  nol pay  due regard to the wider indirect benefits. The economists manipulated figures - which they might believe to be' right - but which conflicted with the whole history of irrigation.  Sir William  left the SMA in April last year and is now in business as an engineering consultant. 
There is no doubt that he anticipated the Government's policy. What I ask is this: Does any reasonable person in this House believe, if the Authority is not being disbanded or demolished, other than that this Bill without doubt has literally torn this Authority so far apart that the only vestige which remains is its name? It is small comfort to the people who have put Australia in the forefront in major development projects throughout the world. Above all, it is a pitiful comfort to future development of our nation and its people. In short, this great Authority has been reduced to but a shadow of its former self. This Government in reaching its decision on the fate of this Authority is -guilty of sheer national incompetence and mismanagement. We as a Parliament have not only a responsibility to legislate for the present; we also have a national responsibility to budget for the future needs, commitments and development of this country. It is in the latter area that this Government has failed the nation on this matter. 
We as a people live. in what is the driest continent on the earth. Whilst the people of South Australia are fully conscious of that fact, obviously this Government is not. This nation is facing a national crisis. That crisis, beyond doubt and despite what honourable members opposite say, is in the conservation of water. It must be tackled immediately. If ever in this nation's history there was a time for the retention of this Authority, it is now. If ever there was a time for a national water conservation authority, it is now. 
What should astonish honourable members opposite and the public in general is that in 1901 - that was at federation - Australia's population stood at 3.75 million. By 31st December last year it had increased to 12.5 million. The projection is that in the year 2001 Australia's population will be 22.7 million. For the information of honourable members opposite, particularly members of the Government, I point out that the present capacity of all major storages existing or under construction in Australia is about 43 million acre feet. That is a significant proportion of the total runoff of 280 million acre feet. If we assume the present projection of population growth which indicates that by the end of the century our population will be about 22 million, we will need about 81 million acre feet at that time. The increase is 38 million acre feet, which is the equivalent of seventeen times the amount made available for irrigation by the Snowy Mountains scheme. It means that we will have to construct an additional 8 Eucumbene dams in that period of time. 
 Never mind about pipelines. The honourable member may have his say later. We have to accept the responsibility that has been accepted by the governments of France, Israel, Great Britain, Canada and the United States. We should now have enough leadership and courage to set up a national water conservation authority. No greater challenge faces this Government or the people. The challenge is perfectly simple. Either this nation is to continue its steady progress and development or it is to stand still. It is not possible, feasible or practicable for this nation to continue to develop without water, be it conventional or desalinated. If this Government lacks the courage, the vision and, above all, the leadership, this path must ultimately and inevitably lead to this nation's stagnation. 
We cannot ignore this problem as though it does not exist. Three obvious factors inhibit a solution. One, which is obvious to anybody who has sat here tonight and listened to the debate and the points of view expressed by members of the Government parties, is that this Government, ever since 1949 when the Snowy Mountains project commenced, has had a complete and utter aversion to any form of policy based on positive, constructive or futuristic planning and development for this country. The second, which is also perfectly obvious, is the petty, artificial State barriers which are set up, which are nothing more than a harvest for politicians, either State or Federal, and which must be submerged in the overall national interest. The third flows from the constitutional section 51 problem. 1, like  Sir William  Hudson, consider it a load of hooey. If we could overcome the problem in 1949, we can overcome it now. 
We must follow the progressive lead of other countries. As a constructive step,I suggest that we set up inter-governmental commissions, boards or agencies - call them what you like - in an attempt to resolve this deadlock. If need be, let us go to the people with a view to an alteration of the Constitution, even if only on this issue. It was done in the field of social services, in connection with the Joint Coal Board and many other issues. It is a problem that is far too crucial to be side-stepped. Let me conclude by stating that this legislation is consistent with Liberal policy. It lacks any vestige of regard for the future of the country. It typifies the Government's lack of leadership, vision and courage. If that attitude is not rectified in the very near future it will, in my view, ultimately and inevitably mean that this nation's capacity to progress and develop will be severely inhibited and retarded through all levels whether they be agricultural, industrial or commercial. The price of ineptitude is too high for this country to pay. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has he or his Department received representations from chemists for an increase in the fee for dispensing national health service prescriptions. 
Have any investigations been carried out by his Department into the costs associated with this work; if so, what were the results of the inquiry. 
Does he expect to be able to give an approval at an early date for some increase in the dispensing fee. 
On behalf of the Opposition I move: 
Omit 'with the approval of the Public Service Board'. 
The clause wilt then read: 
The terms and conditions of employment of officers and employees are such as are determined by the Corporation. 
Clause 21 obviously is to give powers to the Corporation in the fixation of salaries and conditions of employment of officers and employees. It has been repeated time after time at both the second reading stage and this stage of the Bill that the intent of the Government's policy is that the Corporation is to function as a commercial undertaking. If one looks at the Bill as a whole it wilt be seen that it is completely strangled by Public Service regulations and I think there is no more depressing influence on the Corporation in this area than for it to be subject to the dictates and determinations of the Public Service Board. If this Corporation is to operate as a commercial organisation and if it is to compete in the market of engineering consultant work one factor essential to any venture will emerge. It wil'l find that it has to attract the highest expertise, the highest standards and the highest quality possible. To inflict upon this Corporation the fixation of its salaries and conditions of employment by the Public Service Board cuts right across the whole concept of its being a commercial undertaking. If one looks at it broadly on the question of rates of pay or salaries and conditions of employment there is no problem insofar as contracts for work affect Commonwealth, State, local or semi governmental authorities because the salaries and conditions of employment are on a parity at these levels. But surely the Government has taken into consideration that when we go from these areas into the areas outside of government we find in the fields of private enterprise  and particularly in the field of private consultants in this country that they are not inhibited by rates of pay or conditions of employment to attract the highest professional men. Does any honourable member contend that engineers throughout this country have any faith at all1 left in the determinations brought down by the Commonwealth Public Service Board? In the May 1970 edition of the 'Commonwealth Professional' the following appears: 
Those charged with recruiting engineers to the Commonwealth Public Service today must have an uneasy conscience, lt is their duly to convince graduates that they should join the CPS when they know that the graduate would have a much more rewarding career elsewhere, lt is the responsibility of all of tis to make the community aware of the true situation so that young people are not misled. This will at least ensure the Commonwealth does not receive services for which it is not prepared to pay. 
Likewise, a recent meeting of Public Service and Commonwealth instrumentality engineers in which some 500 took part resolved: 
That this meeting calls for a public inquiry into the workings of lnc Commonwealth Public Service Board in view of the treatment which the Board has meted out to engineers. 
Quite frankly, if the Government has set out to strangle this Corporation and make sure it does not function efficiently it has done so by saddling it with the dictates of the Public Service Board in this area. Why is it that the Government should think fit on this occasion to saddle the Corporation with these provisions? lt has not done this to other statutory authorities and I suggest quite bluntly that it has done it for one reason and that is to protect 2 interests involved in the field of engineering consultants. They are foreign investors and private investors. The Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Authority was established in 1949. Section 22 of its Act reads as follows: 22- (1.) The Authority may appoint such officers as it thinks necessary for the purposes of this Act. (2.) The selection of persons for appointment as officers tinder this section shall be made in accordance with such requirements as the Public Service Board determines. (7.) Officers shall not be subject to the Commonwealth Public Service Act 1922-1948 but shall hold office under such terms and conditions as are  subject  to the approval of the Public Service Board, determined by the Authority. 
In a book entitled 'Principles of Australian Administrative Law', by D. G.  Benjafield  and H. Whitmore, the following appears at page 325: lt can hardly be claimed that a satisfactory solution has been worked out to the problem of controlling statutory corporations in the public interest. The corporations arc quite free to disregard the interest of citizens and cannot effectively be restrained either by the parliaments or the courts, lt might be worthwhile to reverse the trend towards freeing the corporations of the Public Service Board control. If this would place too great a burden on the boards then there is again a case for an ombudsman. The mere presence of such a reviewing authority might do much lo curb abuses of power. 
While this comment was made in a discusion concerning relative merits of ombudsmen in the control of statutory corporations the fact that the point was made that there is a trend towards Public Service Board control of corporation is relevant. An academic authority in the field has informed me that such a trend is by no means a necessary adjunct of the present legislation concerning statutory authorities. He was of the opinion that several statutory authorities in the commercial fields did not employ officers with the approval of the Public Service Board with respect to terms and conditions of employment. Subsequent research has revealed that precedents of statutory authorities which do not need the approval of the Public Service Board  with  respect to the terms and conditions of employment which they offer include the Reserve Bank, the Commonwealth Bank, the Australian Coastal Shipping Commission, the Australian National Airways Commission, and the Australian Broadcasting Commission. To instance this. I will quote from section 66 - (1.) of Part VII of the Act relating to the Reserve Bank of Australia, lt states: 66 - (I.) The Bank may appoint such officers as are necessary for the purposes of this Act. (2.) The officers appointed under this Part shall constitute the Reserve Bank service. (3.) Subject to this Part and to the regulations.  officers  hold office on such term and conditions as the Bank determines. lt goes on to say that the Bank in effect nas the power to fix terms and rates of pay and conditions of employment. Why is if that on this occasion the Corporation has to be saddled with these provisions? I ask the Minister whether he would reconsider  the  position, put the Corporation on exactly  the same basis and give it the right to exercise its power to act as it should act if it is a commercial undertaking. If it was a Government undertaking I could understand the logic of the provision as it stands at the moment. But if the Government is sincere in its attitude that the Corporation will enter the field in free and open competition with outside interests, foreign or private, it has a complete right to do so and it must be free and unshackled from the provisions of the Public Service Act and the Public Service Board and allowed to fix its own terms of rates of pay and conditions of employment. 
I ask the Treasurer whether his attention has been drawn to an article in the 'Australian' of 7th August which reads: 
The New South Wales Government will appoint its own insurance commission if the Commonwealth fails to act promptly to strengthen controls in the trade. 
Does the Minister recall my raising in the House last March the, questionable activities of the Motor Marine and General Insurance Co. Ltd when I was advised that his Department would investigate the matter? Has the Minister's attention been directed to the doubtful insurance stability of Cambridge Insurance, its subsidiary Norfolk, East Australian, Bonus Benefits, Mid Pacific and other unstable companies which, because of the failure of this Government to act, are fleecing thousands of innocent people? Finally, will he give an assurance that he will take steps in the present parliamentary session to amend the Commonwealth Insurance Act to empower the Commonwealth Insurance Commissioner to control non-life insurance as he does life insurance? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of electors of Hawker respectfully showeth: 
That they are gravely concerned at what they consider to be the adverse effect on moral standards in the Australian community of the increasing portrayal and description of obscenity, sexual licence, promiscuity and violence in films, books, magazines, plays and, to a lesser extent, television and radio programmes; 
That their concern arises partly from the fact that historians, such as J. D. Unwin and Arnold Toynbee, have shown that nearly all nations which have perished have done so because of internal moral decay; and partly because obscenity and indecency are contrary to the teachings of Christianity which is the acknowledged religion of more than 80 per cent of Australians, besides being 'part and parcel of the law of the land' (Quick and Garran in 'Commentaries on the Australian Constitution,' Page 951); and 
That, in accordance with the findings of the Australian gallup poll, published in the Melbourne Herald on 14th November 1969, the majority of Australian citizens want censorship either maintained or increased. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that honourable members of the House of Representatives will seek to ensure that Commonwealth legislation bearing on censorship of films, literature and radio and television programmes is so framed and so administered as to preserve sound moral standards in the community. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that under the Income Tax Assessment Act, (a) notice is published in the Commonwealth Gazette requiring every individual who is resident in Australia and whose taxable income from all sources in and out of Australia exceeds $416, to furnish an income tax return, (b) the Commissioner has the power, under section 163, to demand from any person an income tax return and (c) males over 65 years and females over 60 years are allowed tax free income of $1,300 for a single person and $2,262 for a married couple. 
Will he give consideration to the granting of an exemption to these persons from the obligation to prepare a return of income, and will he take steps to see that notice is given that exemption from the lodgment of the returns is granted to aged persons whose income is within the exempt limits. 
I address my question to the Minister for National Development. Is the Minister aware that the United States Atomic Energy Commission, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, the International Atomic Energy Agency, the European Nuclear Energy Agency and many other governmental and non-governmental bodies periodically publish figures on estimated unit costs for the production of electricity for projected nuclear power stations? Has the Australian Atomic Energy Commission prepared similar figures? If so, what are  they and will the Minister table them for the benefit of this House and the taxpayers of this nation? If not, why not? 
I rise to support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart).  This  Government's policy to thrust Australia into the nuclear power race has been accomplished with sheer political arrogance and a complete contempt for public participation. The Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  is confident in the knowledge that the whole Jervis Bay project is a fait accompli. We are being asked to endorse a heavy appropriation of some $130m to construct a nuclear power station at Jervis Bay, and it is estimated .that some $5,000m will be spent on nuclear power over the next 30 years. The amendment justly indicts this Government for its blatant and deliberate rejection of the people's right, either direct or through their elected representatives, to a parliamentary or public inquiry or debate. It indicts this Government for its deliberate withholding of facts and information necessary to a balanced evaluation of a matter of national importance. 
One statement by the Minister for National Development on 28th of last month suffices to indicate this Government's contempt and arrogance for public concern. He stated: lt is our policy to keep the House and the general public informed about the progress and purposes of the Jervis Bay project. At the appropriate time we intend to make to this House a detailed report upon the final choice and make public  as  much relevant information as possible. 
I state categorically that this Government has never at any time furnished the Parliament or the public with so-called progress reports on matters of substance. This Government arbitrarily decided to construct the nuclear power plant. It arbitrarily decided to build it at Jervis Bay. It will arbitrarily inform the Parliament and the people after it has arbitrarily selected the successful tenderer. Then and only then will the Parliament or the taxpayer be told of the burden of the cost the taxpayer will be expected to bear. Then and only then will our people be informed of the crucial matters relating to the degree of radiation emissions, and their possible effects on health and the environment, and the dispersal of radioactive wastes. Surely there ought to be 4 criteria for the selection of any site. Firstly, what region of the Commonwealth would require or could absorb additional power and the economic costs involved? Secondly, what region of the Commonwealth would benefit in power and water from a dual purpose reactor? Thirdly, what contribution could such a siting make in terms of decentralisation and reduction of the pollution factor? Fourthly, factors involving health and safety both in the environmental and technical sense must be considered. 
On 8th January the Minister stated in the Sydney Town Hall that 50 sites were examined. The Government has claimed that ultimately 7 sites were examined and Jervis Bay was awarded the ribbon. Despite the many reasons that have been referred to there exists only one reason for the selection of Jervis Bay, and it is the weakest of them all. It was selected simply because it is in a Commonwealth Territory. It was chosen to avoid a tiresome and tedious crossfire between the Commonwealth and the States. Let us look at the facts. The plant is to be situated within a few miles of the richest coal region in Australia. Further, that region provides the cheapest commercial power units anywhere in Australia. 
Is the proposed nuclear power station to be economic? We cannot get the figures so I must rely on Bruce Ross of Wollongong University College who estimates that the cost of power at Jervis Bay will be at least 50 per cent more than the cost of New South Wales power. This will mean that a large Commonwealth subsidy will have to be paid, amounting over a year to about $7m. The total subsidy paid over a period of 25 years will be about $180m. As a decrease in the cost of conventional coal produced power is possible, that subsidy could increase. Therefore in addition to the initial capital cost the taxpayer will be obliged to face an annual cost of about $7m. 
Had New South Wales been left to its own devices it would not have entertained the building of a nuclear power station at least until the 1980s. Victoria is in exactly the same position. This is confirmed by reference to a paper submitted to the Institute of Engineers by W. H. Roberts, Secretary for Fuel and Power in Victoria, and a former associate director of the Atomic Energy Commission. He wrote: 
Installation of nuclear rather than oil or gas plant before 1978-80 would involve about twice the capital investment and would be competing for baseload operation with the low cost of extra output from established but loaded Latrobe Valley stations, and unless heavily subsidised would not be economical. 
In effect, whatever region of the Commonwealth is selected for nuclear power, in terms of power it will require a heavy Commonwealth subsidy and will be uneconomic. Let us apply the next criterion; that is, whether the proposed power station should be placed in an arid zone to supplement existing water storage. The suitability df a dual reactor has been rejected on the grounds that a detailed examination was not worth while as it would be more economic to provide arid areas with both power and water by conventional means. But surely in Australia, the driest continent on earth, a detailed investigation was justified. South Australia, being the driest State of the Commonwealth, merited a detailed investigation. If power is uneconomic, surely we must probe an evaluation of desalinated water. I challenge the assumption of the Minister that conventional methods are cheaper than the cost of desalinated water. 

 Dr Alvin Weinberg of Oak Ridge National Laboratory in the United States of America predicted in a recent article in Nature' that even with present technology nuclear power could be used to produce pure water from sea water at a cost of between 9c and 18c Australian for 1,000 gallons. I shall now cite the actual costs of 1,000 gallons of water in South Australia. The metropolitan cost is 44c; Whyalla 92c; Port Augusta $7.30; Port Pirie $1.45; and Eyre Peninsula $1.91. Let us have none of this rot of conventional power being cheaper. The figures I have cited highlight the shallowness of this Government's approach. 1 wonder whether any detailed inquiries have been made at all. Let us apply the test to Jervis Bay. It again fails to make sense. The nuclear power station will be in an area where the average rainfall each year is between 35 inches and 40 inches, lt is certainly not an arid zone. I make a plea for South Australia and claim that it must be placed high on the priority list. My State will face a severe water shortage before the end of the century, despite the construction of water storages at Chowilla or Dartmouth, or at both places. It is of vital importance. Desalinated water in South Australia is a must for continued progress and growth. 
A 250 megawatt station would mean an injection into our sparse water supply of some 75 million gallons per day.  Mr Beaney,  the engineer in chief, has gone on record recently as saying that: 'Any such plant to be worthwhile in assisting the metropolitan water supply would need to produce between 50 million gallons and 100 million gallons of water per day'. Why not South Australia? It would make a valuable economic contribution not only to the State but also the Commonwealth as a whole rather than a total economic liability. The logic of this claim is ruled out by this Government without any detailed investigation. 
On the question of decentralisation, let me merely ask this: Did the Australian Atomic Energy Commission or this Government investigate the concept of 'where in this country do we need new centres of industry and population?' The answer obviously is that they lack the foresight, imagination and courage necessary to carry out an investigation. 
On the fourth question, which is the criteria relating to health, safety and radiation, our people have a right to condemn this Government and the AEC for its failure -to publish or declare the facts. What is the Baxterian philosophy? Firstly, it states: The problem is studied and the answer comes up that science and technology can develop satisfactory answers for everything. Secondly, the problem is minimised. The pronouncement is made that all aspects of life and living involve risks. Thirdly, the concept of the tolerance dose of radioactive poison is developed. The first step is to determine what dose of poison converts humans immediately from vertical to horizontal positions where they remain. This, of course, is above tolerance, so the dose a little lower than that, perhaps five times lower than a lethal dose, is prescribed. The second step is that, at some point, more and more humans become exposed to the poison and, while they are not instantly converted from living to dead, they still die over a period of months or years, or perhaps show related illnesses. Is there any safe tolerance level? The honest answer must be: 'We do not know'. But, of course, any person or indeed any scientist who disagrees with such facts is dubbed by  Sir Philip  Baxter as supporting a particular political colour or, alternatively, one discredits the concept of no safe tolerance by questioning the motives of those who raise such questions. Last, but not least, is that most famous of all outs: 'We shall study the problem*. 
Controversy has arisen in the United States of America particularly initiated by Drs Tamlin and Gofman and by the scientists E. B. Lewis and Linus Pauling to the extent that they calculate that 36,000 deaths in the United States may be caused by the radiation level. Finally, after years of struggle, these scientists' views have won some form of recognition. Why is it that the States of ' Minnesota, Vermont, Michigan and Maryland as a protection for their people have, in the light of these findings, taken unilateral action to fix dosage levels lower than that fixed by the United States Atomic Energy Commission? As a consequence, the whole issue at last has been dragged before the United States 
Supreme Court to be aired publicly. The United States Atomic Energy Commission will be forced to substantiate the credibility of the tolerance level and, more importantly, the people will have the opportunity to judge for themselves. 
What I claim is this: We must base our policies and decisions on the experience and mistakes of others. In view of this, we should, firstly, outlaw the concept of a tolerance dose of any by-product poison. If the AEC believes that a safe tolerance does exists, it is up to the AEC to prove it; secondly, abolish the dual role of promoter and protector or, if you will, judge and jury or this appeal from Caesar to Caesar. The AEC must be stripped of all functions having anything to do with public health or safety; and, thirdly, a determined principle must be adopted that the only acceptable tolerance dose for the health of our people, radioactive or otherwise, is zero. 
The Baxterian empire and this Government claim that they alone have the right to be the only select group throughout the entire nation which has the competence to reason and decide what is right and in the best interests of the people and of the nation. I put it forcefully to the chamber that there exist people beyond the gods who occupy the Lucasian Heights or the executive suites of the Government, who are equally competent to criticise, to assess and to judge. 
I am not against Australia's entering the field of nuclear power, but I strongly condemn the combined Government and AAEC ludicrous facade of secrecy by which the Government gags its own expertise by way of the iniquitous provisions of the Crimes Act, the Atomic Energy Act and the Commonwealth Public Service Act. Both instrumentalities have deliberately sought to blanket and suppress crucial information. In other more enlightened countries, such as the United States of America, the public's voice is heard, its rights are protected by statute and this whole matter is a question of public inquiry and public documentation. To this point of time not one word of debate on this subject has echoed through this chamber. There has been no inquiry either by this Parliament or by a public investigation outside this Parliament The Government has not the slightest intention of holding such an inquiry. I believe that when the costs are made known to the taxpayers and the nature of the radiation emissions are finally divulged they will be in such a form -that the Government will be protected at every level. Why is it that the Governments of the United States of America, Great Britain, France, Canada and Japan have set up standing committees of the Parliament in relation to this matter? Why does Australia stand alone on this issue7 On these grounds alone I support the amendment. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of South Australia respectfully showeth: 
That due to the higher living cost, persons on Social Service Pensions are finding it extremely difficult to live in even the most frugal way. 
We therefore call upon the Commonwealth Government to increase the base pension rate to 30 per cent of the Average Weekly Male Earnings for all States, as ascertained by the Commonwealth Statistician, plus supplementary assistance and allowances in accordance with A.C.T.U. policy and adopted as the policy of the Australian Commonwealth Pensioners' Federation, and by doing so give a reasonably moderate pension. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to bring about the wishes expressed in our petition: so that our citizens receiving the Social Pensions may live their lives in dignity. 
Any your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
asked the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
Will he give Urgent consideration to the granting of a telephone service free of charge to disabled persons in view of the special need these persons have for such a service. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The- Petition of the undersigned citizens of South Australia respectfully showeth: 
That due to the higher living cost, persons on social service pensions are . finding it . extremely difficult to live in even the most frugal way. 
We therefore call upon the. Commonwealth Government to increase the base pension rate to 30 per cent of the average weekly male earnings for all States, as ascertained by the Commonwealth Statistician,' plus supplementary assistance and .allowances in accordance with the Australian Council of Trade Unions policy and adopted as the policy of the Australian Commonwealth Pensioners' Federation, and by doing so give a reasonably moderate pension. - 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to., bring about the wishes expressed In our petition: so that our citizens receiving the social service pensions may live their lives in dignity. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I rise to support the Bill. I wish to apply myself to some constructive criticisms of certain aspects of the Bill. In doing so, I wish to give formal notice to the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  that during the Committee stage of the Bill I will deal with the following aspects, which 1 will enumerate, of the legislation. 1 wish to achieve this by quoting from certain parts of the second reading speech made by the Minister. The Minister stated in his second reading speech: 
At the present moment, we have a survey in progress as to the dimensions of disability especially among the younger members of the community, ft is of course crucial to give help to the younger group at the lime when training will be most beneficial to them. It was for this reason that earlier this year, and as part of the plan, we brought in -the handicapped children's legislation, which, I am glad to say, is already proving ils practical worth. Al the other end, we must help them to undertake employment - to train for normal employment those who are able to sustain it, and to provide continuing sheltered employment for those who are unable to make the grade. 
He said further: 
This Bill gives effect to three specific proposals contained in the Budget Speech - namely, a subsidy towards the capital cost of accommodation for disabled persons working in normal industry; payment of a training fee in respect of persons placed in normal employment by a sheltered workshop organisation: and a subsidy Cowards the salaries of certain sheltered workshop staff. 
He went on to say: 
The impetus given by the Government's assistance can be gauged by the fact that more than 100 sheltered workshops - employing an estimated 5,000 handicapped people - have been approved for assistance and are now producing goods worth S5m a year. This figure is rising al the rate of approximately Sim each year. The wages paid to their handicapped employees, most of whom are invalid pensioners, are also increasing steadily. 
Further, he stated: 
By amendment of Section 9 of the Principal Act, the capital subsidy of $2 for $1 which is at present available for the accommodation of persons working in sheltered workshops, most of whom have been assessed as 85 per cent incapacitated for work, will be extended to include subsidy for hostels for disabled people who are working in normal industry. 
He continued: 
The second feature of the Bill is that it provides for a training fee of $500 to be paid to a sheltered workshop organisation where a former  employee who is disabled to the extent required for invalid pension purposes, graduates to normal employment and is able to retain such employment for a period of 12 months. 
He stated further: 
The final provision contained in the Bill is for payment of a $1 for $1 subsidy towards the salary costs incurred by sheltered workshop organisations in the employment of persons to provide special supervision, or medical guidance, counselling, social work or other services for their disabled workers. 
My purpose is that I wish to refer to these extracts specifically during the Committee stage of the Bill. I consider that certain aspects of them ought to be clarified and in fact looked at in greater depth because there are quite a number of anomalies within the provisions of the Bill. 
Briefly I wish to turn to an aspect which has been mentioned tonight, and that is the question of the means test and social service payments as they apply to the disabled. I am the first to concede that the tapered means test has been of some help to handicapped people. However, further concessions in, or abolishment of, the means test for those on sheltered employment allowance is overdue. The handicapped need encouragement, not discouragement, in their efforts to help themselves. The existing means test for many of the handicapped is still the biggest single burden in their attempts to lift themselves from poverty. A single invalid pensioner receiving SI 5.50 a week is still allowed to earn a maximum of only $10 weekly before the means test operates. This means that with a gross income from sheltered employment allowance and earnings of $25.50 the handicapped person is living well below the breadline. Yet for all his efforts at earning more than $10, sheltered employment allowance is reduced at the rate of 50c for every $1. 
It must be appreciated that from a handicapped worker who is assessed at at least 85 per cent incapacitated the effort required to earn is considerably more than the effort required from his able bodied counterpart. Yet the means test still denies him a minimum of 50 per cent reduction in his earnings when those earnings are more than $10 weekly, because in addition, as his earnings increase, income tax becomes payable. Many handicapped workers are so discouraged by this artificially created barrier that when they earn the $10 they do not continue their work. No-one can blame them for this approach. Exercising the means test at this level - when gross emoluments are $25.50 - is outrageous. It would be more proper to apply the means test to the salary and allowances of members of this Parliament. 
The situation for the handicapped worker in a multi-diagnostic workshop frequently becomes ludicrous. Here a physically or metally handicapped worker working at the side of a blind worker is grossly disadvantaged, because there is no means test applied to the holder of a blind pension. Under these circumstances it is beyond expectation to hope that a quadriplegic worker would not be affected by the fact that a blind worker working at his side in the workshop retains his blind pension without deduction, irrespective of his earning capacity. Yet the blind pensioner can use public transport to and from the workshop while the quadriplegic worker has to use a taxi or private car. Thus the quadriplegic worker has greater expense in getting to and from work and at the same time is subjected to a deduction on sheltered employment allowance at 50c in the $1 after earnings of $10 weekly, while the blind worker is not so disadvantaged. It is vital that all handicapped workers be brought up to the same level as the blind pensioner. It is untenable to consider otherwise. 
I commend to the Minister the 'Australian Financial Review' issues of 9th and 10th July this year which clearly set out  some  examples. There is no doubt that some handicapped workers attending sheltered workshops are the heaviest taxed workers in the community, even though their gross emoluments are the lowest in the community. It is impossible to expect handicapped people to develop their residual abilities with this enormous economic barrier imposed by the Government. A single handicapped worker on  a  sheltered employment allowance earning $10 a week receives a gross total from earnings and sheltered employment allowance of $25.50 and at that point the means test applies. 
The handicapped worker earning $30.06 a week has his sheltered employment allowance means tested to the degree that the allowance is reduced from $15.50 to $5.45 a week, leaving a gross total of $35.51. This is a ludicrous situation, especially when one understands the enormous effort that the handicapped worker would have to make in order to receive a gross increase of $10.01. The blind pensioner earning the same amount, namely $30.06, would receive a gross income of $45.56. The Government, while it continues this policy of operating this heavy means test on sheltered employment allowance, is actively creating barriers against the successful rehabilitation of the handicapped and also against the full career development within the sheltered workshop of those whose disability would preclude their placement in open industry. 
If it is not possible for the Government to undertake the complete abolition of the means test in relation to the sheltered employment allowance - and I commend this to the Minister - at least there should be a further easing of the means test in this area in order that disincentives for rehabilitation may be minimised. There can be no excuse that the cost factor rules it out: Quite the reverse. Greater productivity and production and less clerical expense in administering a means test will result. Undoubtedly there should be abolition of the means test in connection with all pensions, but while it may be economically difficult for this to be done in one sweep, there should be a peripheral attack on the means test. The majority of those attending sheltered workshops have been either disabled for life or for a long period of time, or have had disability come at an early stage in life and so have not had the opportunity of acquiring assets in the same way as most age pensioners have. So the handicapped have an additional reason for having the means test either abolished or modified. If the Government plans only a peripheral approach then this is the area in which to start. 
When gross earnings in the workshop reach $40.96 weekly the sheltered employ ment allowance cuts out and when it cuts out all the ancillary benefits, including medical benefits, cease. When earnings in the workshop reach $40.86 weekly the sheltered employment allowance is reduced to 5c weekly but when this occurs ancillary benefits remain. Here again there can be no incentive to continue beyond the $40.95 when the sheltered employment allowance cuts out, because ancillary benefits attached to the sheltered employment allowance are an insurance for the handicapped worker. For the handicapped worker to go on beyond this point and lose his medical benefits is an enormous deterrent because the handicapped are always conscious of the reality of medical expense. It is strongly urged that the ancillary benefits attached to the sheltered employment allowance and invalid pension remain for all disabled workers working in a sheltered workshop. I think the points I have raised tonight warrant early investigation. They should be acted on immediately and I commend to the Minister my belief that this aspect must receive the prompt attention of the Government to alleviate what are in fact obvious anomalies and gross injustices. 
Is the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  aware that there is one great group, in relation to capital subsidy for workshops, that is not covered by the provisions of the 1967 Act or the new Bill? It is evident that the Department of Social Services in its Rehabilitation Service lays great emphasis on and makes provision for social and recreational facilities within Commonwealth rehabilitation centres. However, there is no provision for the establishment of social and recreational facilities in sheltered workshops. The Bill should provide for a capital subsidy to assist the establishment of social and recreational facilities in workshops, either on the site of the workshop, the site of the hostel - not just for the residents of the hostel but for the whole workshop - or on a separate site. 
I wish to address my remarks to proposed new section 16b (1.) in the proposed Part IVA. I want to deal with the question of apprentices. I suggest to the Minister that there is one further item of great significance which the provisions of the proposed legislation do not cover. Here I refer to disabled or handicapped workers who are apprenticed within a workshop. The Minister must be aware that Bedford Industries in South Australia has given a lead, both in Australia and in the world, for the acceptance into sheltered workshops of disabled apprentices. The proposed provisions of the Act will clearly not encourage workshops to employ disabled apprentices because there would be no payment of the $500 to the workshop for any apprentices who are successfully placed. 
As 1 understand it, the first disabled apprentice iri a sheltered workshop in Australia - and I believe in any sheltered workshop in the world - is a case in point. This is an epileptic boy who is employed at Bedford Industries as an apprentice cabinet joiner. He was indentured some 4 years ago. This boy has been paid award rates since his date of acceptance at Bedford Industries. Last year he was awarded the prize for the best all round apprentice in cabinet joinery at the trades school. Bedford Industries was approached initially by the State Secretary of the furniture trade union in South Australia to accept this boy as an apprentice as both the boy's parents and the trade union had not succeeded in getting him accepted into the furniture trade because of his epilepsy. 
Obviously there should be encouragement, not discouragement, given to workshops to accept handicapped apprentices, as through apprenticeship there can be better planned career development and better payment for the handicapped worker. Of course, there is also for the Department of Social Services relief from payment of pensions, and for the community there is greater productivity. However, because this worker has never been on a pension, the provisions of the proposed legislation would prevent Bedford Industries from receiving the $500 training grant. In the whole of this young man's career, because of his effort and because of the facilities of Bedford Industries, he has never been a pensioner. 
I think this is a rare case. Apprentices in sheltered workshops are obviously in the minority. Quite frankly, I think it has been an oversight on the Minister's part that provision was not included in the Bill to cover this type of contingency. I ask the Minister to ensure that the $500 subsidy is paid to workshops that accept disabled apprentices. Further in this context, will the Minister give an assurance that, where a disabled apprentice completes at least 6 months continuous employment in such a workshop, the workshop shall immediately become eligible for the $500 subsidy? 
Turning to section 5 (a) of the Act I should like briefly to refer to another anomaly which concerns people who are not recipients of social service benefits but who are in recept of workers compensation, repatriation benefits or superannuation. As I understand it, the proposed legislation requires that those people who are not in receipt of an invalid pension or sheltered workshop allowance are obliged within the provisions of the Sheltered Employment (Assistance) Act or alternatively the Social Services Act to be assessed as being 85 per cent incapacitated, and that such assessment must be carried out by medical officers of the Minister's Department or of the Department of Health - 1 am not sure which. 
As the Minister is aware, Bedford Industries is one of the largest sheltered workshops of its type in Australia. The Minister is further aware that some 13 honorary medical consultants are attached to this workshop. On this consultative panel are Professor Cramond, Professor of Mental Health at the Adelaide University,  Dr Cornish,  a specialist in orthopaedics,  Dr Pjumfer,  Medical Director of the Heart Foundation of South Australia and  Dr Norma  Kent, Assistant Director of Mental Health in South Australia. The question I pose - and I seek the Minister's reply - is: Where such sheltered workshops, as in the case of Bedford Industries, have a panel of medical and specialist medical advisers, will the Minister concede that the medical staff attached to such workshops are equally competent to make an assessment as to whether a person has been disabled to the extent of 85 per cent incapacity? This would overcome the problem of these people having to attend an examination by doctors of the Minister's Department or of the Department of Health. To obligate people who are mentally or physically handicapped to be subjected to medical examination by officers of the Minister's Departmen, when such examination can be carried out at the workshop itself, is, to say the least, ludicrous, illogical and totally uneconomic. I ask the Minister to give a simple administrative instruction in order to overcome what 1 believe is an -obvious anomaly. 1 wish to draw the Minister's attention to sections 8 and 9 of the principal Act which refer to the provision of social and recreational facilities. 1 referred to this matter when f commenced my speech in the Committee stage. The Minister has stated that this is the 'decade of rehabilitation'. Surely he must concede that this field is of equal importance to that of the occupational area. I venture to state that it is basic to the whole therapeutic concept. The current capital subsidy of $2 for $1 tragically does not extend to include this field. Surely this must be treated with equal priority. I quote one example. Bedford Industries took in a boy aged 16 years who could neither read nor write. After considerable time and patience on the part of both the boy and Bedford Industries, he in fact was awarded the Handicapped Worker of the Year award. This boy, now a man, is a spray painter working successfully in outside industry. The point I make is that this boy would never have made the grade had it not been for both the social and recreational facilities provided by Bedford Industries. Therefore, I frankly ask the Minister: Will he agree that the provision for the payment of the capital subsidy as set out in the Bill be interpreted - and I emphasise that - to include both social and recreational facilities? 
I draw the Minister's attention to section 16D in proposed new section Part 1VB, which refers to professional and extra supervisory staff. As I understand the current position, the subsidy provided for in this section is on the basis of $1 for $1. Surely the Minister is conscious of the crying need for the skills of professional and extra supervisory staff throughout all workshops. Surely the Minister is aware of  - I  know he is - and would readily acknowledge the fact the the need for both professional and more importantly, extra supervisory staff is more necessary in a sheltered workshop than in outside industry. Therefore I ask: Will the Minister agree to increase the subsidy applying to this much needed area from the current  $1  for  $1  to that of a capital subsidy of  $2  for  $1.  In conclusion, I should just like to place on record the fact that when we were dealing with a Bill earlier this year the workshops in my area were grateful for the replies which we received from the Minister on that occasion. I trust that he will adopt a similar course on this occasion. 
asked the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the Australian Broadcasting Control Board has set up a committee to inquire into the establishment of frequency modulation broadcasting in Australia. 
If so, when is it expected that the report of this committee will be tabled in the House. 
Will he take steps to ensure that consideration is given to (a) retaining the existing amplitude modulation frequencies for light and popular music and parliamentary broadcasts and (b) the establishment of frequency modulation for talks, sports and classical music. 
 I present the  following  petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament Assembled. The humble Petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Commonwealth Parliament has acted to remove some inadequacies in the Australian education system; a major inadequacy at present in Australian education is the lack of equal education opportunity for all; more than 500,000 children suffer from serious lack of equal opportunity; Australia cannot afford to waste the talents of one sixth of its school children; only the Commonwealth has the financial resources for special programmes to remove inadequacies; and nations such as the United Kingdom and the United States have shown that the chief impetus for change and the finance for improvement come from the National Government. 
Your Petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives make legal provision for a joint Commonwealth-State inquiry into inequalities in Australian education to obtain evidence on which to base long term national programmes for the elimination of inequalities; the immediate financing of special programmes for low income earners, migrants, Aboriginal, rural and inner suburban dwellers and handicapped children; and the provision of pre-school opportunities for all children from culturally different or socially and economically disadvantaged backgrounds. And your Petitioners as is duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully sheweth: 
That the Commonwealth Parliament has acted  to  remove some inadequacies in the Australian education system: a major inadequacy at present in Australian education is the lack of equal education opportunity for all; more than 500,000 children surfer from serious lack of equal opportunity; Australia cannot afford to waste the talents of one-sixth of its school children; only the Commonwealth has the financial resources for special programmes to remove inadequacies; and nations such as the United Kingdom and the United States have shown that the chief impetus for change and the finance for improvement come from the National Government. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives make legal provision for a joint Commonwealth-State inquiry into inequalities in Australian education to obtain evidence on which to base long term national programmes for the elimination of inequalities; the immediate financing of special programmes for low income earners, migrants, Aboriginals, rural and inner suburban dwellers and handicapped children; and the provision of pre-school opportunities for all children from culturally different or socially and economically disadvantaged backgrounds. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I  present  the  following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully sheweth: 
That the Commonwealth Parliament has acted to remove some inadequacies in the Australian education system; a major inadequacy at present in Australian education is the lack of equal education opportunity for all; more than 500,000 children suffer from serious lack of equal opportunity; Australia cannot afford to waste the talents of one sixth of its school children; only the Commonwealth has the financial resources for special programmes to remove inadequacies; and nations such as the United Kingdom and the United States have shown that the chief impetus for change and the finance for improvement come from the National Government. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives make legal provision for a joint Commonwealth-State inquiry into inequalities in Australian education to obtain evidence on which to base long term national programmes for the elimination of inequalities; the immediate financing of special programmes for low income earners, migrants, Aboriginal rural and inner suburban dwellers and handicapped children; and the provision of pre-school opportunities for all children from culturally different or socially and economically disadvantaged backgrounds. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
In speaking on the estimates for the Department of Social Services let me say briefly to the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  that his speech was the weakest defence of Government Estimates that I have ever listened to. 
 I certainly do not intend to. Let me state bluntly in dealing with the question of social services that this is a great country to live in if one is fit. young and healthy. But if one falls by the wayside one faces dire poverty. These are the facts of life today. If ever a government stands indicted in the eyes of the people, this Government does. It deserves complete and utter condemnation. The miserable pittance which was grudgingly doled out to the aged, the sick, the infirm and the veterans of this country is an utter disgrace and a national shame. Let me bluntly put the economic facts. They are quite simple. The increase in Budget expenditure this year will be 11.2 per cent. The increase in the social services expenditure will be 5.8 per cent, slightly more than half the rate of the increase in the overall expenditure of the Budget. Last year the social services expenditure increased by 14.9 per cent There lies the problem. - Let me state briefly lo the Committee that the plight of the pensioners, of the sick and the needy, is to be dealt with by what is termed social welfare. In its handling by this Government over the last 2 decades it has become a social mess. To those unfortunates in our community it is sheer social misery. I am appalled at the sheer lack of understanding of the depth of poverty and degradation throughout our community. I am amazed by the number of people who are not fully conscious of it. People ought to be aware of the fact that in this so-called affluent society over a million people are living in poverty. That is an average of one in 12. I ask the honourable member for Boothby whether, after 20 years of Liberal-Country Party government, he can justify that. Two decades ago this nation had the greatest record in the field of social services of anywhere in the Western world. Today we are fifteenth down the list. That is an indictment of this Government's attitude lo those in need, 
I turn to the question of poverty. The honourable member for Boothby always has the capacity to apply the philosophy of guilt by association. I personally have the greatest regard for the Brotherhood of St Laurence. It has called for a national inquiry, as has the Catholic Church in Australia. Let me just quote what Rev. Hollingworth said on 18th August last.  His  statement is apposite to this question. He said: 
There is something wrong with an economic system in which the established minimum wage and pension rates are on the poverty line . . . 
This country spends more on research into pigs and the pig industry than it does on people. 

 Mr Hollingworth said further:  . . 120,000 Melbournians are living on or below the poverty line. 
Professor Henderson carried out a survey into the question of poverty in the city of Melbourne. This survey has been quoted before and its findings need to be asserted again in this Committee. I believe that Professor Henderson contributed quite a substantial amount of money to the survey before the research could be undertaken. This fact in itself is an indictment of this Government. As I understand them, the statistics flowing from this inquiry clearly indicate that one out of every 5 married couples in the city of Melbourne is living in poverty. In the city of Melbourne alone there are 42,300 children who are living in poverty. 
I turn now to the subject of child endowment. No reference was made to this subject either in the speech by the Governor-General in March of this year or in the Budget. If there is one group in this community that is suffering at poverty level this group is in that area to which child endowment is paid. I put a question to the Minister for Social Services on this matter in April of this year. My question sought the alleviation of the high proportion in our community suffering in abject poverty. I put this, in part, to the Minister: 
To alleviate this poverty, will he take steps immediately towards an increase of existing child endowment rates to $3 per week for the third child and to $4 per week for the fourth child and subsequent children? 
I proposed this action so that people living in poverty in this respect might be removed from this area of need. This question dealt with the City of Melbourne Survey into Poverty. The section of the question prior to the one that I have just read - it introduced the request that I made-reads: 
Did the survey also reveal that 6 per cent, or 42,300 of that city's children are growing up in acute poverty and that of these children 40 per cent come from families with at least 4 children and 22 are children of fatherless families? 
The reply to the compassionate needs of these people was a complete and utter rejection by the Government of the proposal. 
Let us consider the question of child endowment on the statistics available. The payments have not been adjusted. In fact, in 1950, child endowment was set at 50c per week for the first child. That amount has not been altered since. If the Minister wishes to apply to that amount the indices that he used in his second reading speech in dealing wilh the subject of social services, that amount should now be $1.13 a child per week. The payment was set in 194S at Si. lt should be $2.56 a child per week now. In 1964, the amount was set at S 1 .50 a child per week. On the statistics presented, the amount should now be $1.84 a child per week. If one looks at this matter broadly, one sees that there is no question of relativity at all as far as social services is concerned. 
Wage and salary earners throughout this country make applications to tribunals to keep their standards of living level with various costs which rise throughout the community. Doctors have extracted an undertaking from this Government that their fee level will be lifted concurrently with rising costs to maintain their professional status. Why is it that pensioners are to be denied this privilege. Really, it is not a privilege; it is a right. 
What I fail to understand is why, throughout the whole 20 years that this Government has been in office, the Government will not depart from the question of the machinery applying to pensions. I believe that there can be only 2 reasons for this. One is that the amount paid out to pensioners is not proportionate to costs. It is a Budget issue and the Government wishes to keep the control of it within its hands. Secondly I think - and there is no doubt about this at all in my view - that pensions are used deliberately by this Government as a political gimmick at election time. The living standards of pensioners throughout Australia are in the hands of this Government and are nothing more than a vote catching medium. It is high time - I make this special plea - for pensions generally to be taken out of the sphere of politics. Pensions should be established on a scale commensurate with rising costs, that is, whether they be age, invalid or other pensions. Whatever the pension is, it should be taken out of the sphere of politics. In this way, the standard of living of pensioners at least will be commensurate with rising costs in the community. 
I present the following  petition: 
To the Honourable" the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The Petition of the undersigned citizens of South Australia respectfully showeth: 
That due to the higher living cost, persons on Social Service Pensions are finding it extremely difficult to live in even the most frugal way. 
We therefore call upon the Commonwealth Government to increase the base pension rate of 30 per cent of the average weekly male earnings for all States, as ascertained by the Commonwealth Statistician, plus supplementary assistance and allowances in accordance with A.C.T.U. policy and adopted as the policy of the Australian Commonwealth Pensioners' Federation, and by doing so give a reasonably moderate pension. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to bring about the wishes expressed in our Petition so that our citizens receiving the Social Service Pensions may live their lives in dignity. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I address my question to the Prime Minister. Has his attention been drawn to the financial plight facing both church related and voluntary agencies that are providing nursing homes for the care of the frail and aged pensioners, particularly in South Australia? Is the Prime Minister aware that these organisations have incurred substantial deficits, particularly since 1st September last, which could cripple them financially unless they receive immediate Commonwealth assistance? Will the Prime Minister clearly state whether it is the intention of his Government to extend the national health scheme to this area of need in order to overcome the crushing financial burden of these organisations, and if so, will he assure honourable members that Commonwealth financial assistance will be made retrospective to 1st September this year? 
I rise to support this Bill although I cannot commend the Government because its approach to the subject of water resources is haphazard. What is needed in Australia at this time beyond any doubt is a national water conservation authority. I want to make reference to only 2 parts of the Bill before the House. The Bill clearly sets out that it is concerned with grants to the States for the next 3 financial years to accelerate the measurement of the flow of rivers and the investigation and measurement of underground waters. In his second reading speech the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  said: 
The distribution of Commonwealth funds over the 3 years is set out in the Schedules to the Bill, but for the convenience of members, 1 give the figures briefly now. For surface water, the totals are: in 1970-71, $1.17m; in 1971-72, $1.2m; and in 1972-73, $ 1.26m. For underground water, the totals are: S 1.45m, $1.54in and SI. 6m respectively. 
The Bill obviously falls into 2 parts. It is concerned, firstly, with the measurement of the discharge of rivers, and, secondly, with the investigation and measurement of underground water resources. Let me say at the outset that as to the question of the measurement of the discharge of rivers it ought to be understood, and  I  think the Minister is conscious of this fact, that because South Australia is in fact the driest State in the Commonwealth and Australia is the driest continent on earth stream gaugings and water measurement are to some extent limited because of the scarcity of run-off. But I have to lodge a protest, in effect, over the allocation under the Second Schedule of the Bill insofar as the allocation  to South Australia for underground water resources is concerned. The base amount of expenditure in South Australia as indicated in the Second Schedule is $82,000. The grant for the year ending 30th June 1971 is $134,900 and this remains constant up to 30th June 1973. To put it quite bluntly, I do not consider that satisfactory for the problem that South Australia is facing at the present time and will continue to face in the future and well into the next century. 
At this stage I would like to refer to a paper delivered to the University of Adelaide by the Director and EngineerinChief of the South Australian Engineering and Water Supply Department,  Mr Beaney,  on 28th May this year which I think accurately sets out the position in South Australia. He stated: 
If one looks at the rainfall map of the State the area receiving more than eight inches average rain is about 15 per cent of the total. 
In various ways individuals and groups provide for certain water needs. The farmer has his dam, the householder his rainwater tank, others can take water from streams or from wells and bores. In the main, however, the development and handling of the main fresh water resources is in the hands of Government, and the Government has taken to itself wide powers. 
I will not quote the provisions of the South Australian Waterworks Act but  Mr Beaney  continues: 
Legislation places the power to exploit the water resources and to supply water with the Crown, and through the appropriate Minister the function is performed by the Engineering and Water Supply Department. 
Apart from the reservation of water for water supply purposes, there are other controls. The Control of Water Act' provides for any stream in the State to be brought within the Act by proclamation, so vesting the water of the stream in the Crown. This Act has only been applied to the River Murray and water is there made available to riparian users through annual licences. 
Likewise the'Underground Waters Preservation Act' provides for strict cotrol within defined areas, and areas can be defined by regulations made by the Governor with the advice and consent of Executive Council. In such areas the owner must record with the Minister of Mines full details of all wells and must have a permit to alter a well or to sink others. Water usage can also be regulated, all these controls aiming to prevent action likely, to quote from the Act, "(a) to cause contamination or deterioration of any underground water; 
to cause inequitable distribution of underground water; 
to cause undue loss or wastage of underground water; or 
to deplete unduly the supply of underground water." 1 now want to refer to the commentary quoted by  Mr Beaney  on the South Australian Gulf Drainage Provision. He stated: 
The Division is the second smallest of the drainage divisions and is the driest of the divisions (MX) which drain to the coast, 
The eastern boundary of the division is formed partly by the Mount Lofty Ranges, which rise to nearly 2,400 feet east of Adelaide and to over 3,000 feet north of Burra, and further north it follows the Flinders Ranges, which reach a height of 3,800 feet at St Mary Peak. The boundary then rounds Lake Torrens and, further south, the western boundary of the division is formed by  a  discontinuous line of hills on Eyre Peninsula. Kangaroo Island is also included. The division contains striking contrasts in topography, with the large flat area around Lake Torrens close to the rugged Flinders Ranges. 
The individual river basins in this division are small. The largest, the Broughton, which includes Yorke Peninsula, has a catchment area of 6,400 square miles. 
Rainfall in excess of 30 inches per year occurs only on a very small area in the Mount Lofty Ranges, and in the north-west of the division the average is less than 6 inches per year. In the south apart from the more elevated areas, average precipitation exceeds evaporation only during the four winter months May to August, and over most of the division monthly evaporation rates exceed rainfall throughout the year. 
The average annual run-off from the division is only some 430,000 acre feet or 0.28 inches, which is about a ninth of the average for the rest of Australia excluding the Western Plateau. As can be seen on the map-sheet, the division has very little run-off outside the vicinity of the Mount Lofty Ranges. With the tendency for concentration of rainfall in the winter months and the very high summer evaporation, there is a markedly seasonal winter run-off pattern. Although there is significant summer rainfall in the south-eastern part of the division, the antecedent conditions are usually so dry that little or no run-off results. Even the main streams, the Onkaparinga and Torrens, occasionally cease to flow in the summer. 
Development of the streams in the Mount Lofty Ranges, mainly for municipal water supply, has in most cases reached the practicable limit and there seems to be little scope for further development of surface water elsewhere in the division. In fact, the division has long been an area of net import of water, supplies coming by pipelines to Adelaide and Whyalla from the Murray River. 
He goes on to say: 
Adelaide's 1969-1970 consumption will be about 32,000 million gallons, or 118,000 acre feet. 
Metropolitan reservoirs bold 41,000 million gallons, or 152,000 acre feet 
I would now like to give some indication of the actual cost of water in South Australia. These facts are not very well known. The cost of the Engineering and Water Supply Department of water is 44c per thousand gallons in the metropolitan area. 92c per thousand gallons at Whyalla, $1.30 at Port  Augusta, $1.45 at Port Pirie and $1.92 at Eyre Peninsula. The other subject 1 want to touch on briefly, which is discussed very  well in this paper, is that of underground  water which is vital to South Australia. The pointI want to make is that I think there are insufficient funds available for a detailed investigation of the underground water resources in South Australia to be carried out.  Mr Beaney  listed them as follows: 
The underground resources of Eyre Peninsula. 
The towns and farms of the Peninsula mostly have a water supply, partly from the Tod River Reservoir but more importantly from a series of underground basins. 
The Uley-Wanilla basin was developed in 1948, and has been followed by the Lincoln and Flinders basins, all near Port Lincoln and the Polda basin some 90 miles north near the township of Lock. 
The yield of the basins is safely held at some 6,000 acre feet, and new basins available for development promise to increase this to 10,000 acre feet or more providing useful assurances for normal development on the Peninsula for years to come. 
The South-East 
The hydrology of the South-East covers a complex of surface and underground waters. The water  resource is substantial. Up to now, civil works have concentrated on the removal of water by drainage, and up to 200,000 acre feet a year has been taken to the sea to enable pastures to be established in erstwhile swamp areas. The drains also provide a valuable means of disposal for saline waters, a service of increasing importance with the increasing use of fresh water of the region. 
The Eight Mile Creek, to the east of Port MacDonnell carries a permanent natural overflow from the springs of the Ewen Ponds area and discharges 50,000 acre feet a year to the southern ocean. There are other visible outlets. 
The Blue Lake now provides 3,000 acre feet annually to Mount Gambier, and while the lake level has fallen quite markedly in recent years it is not likely that this is caused by exploitation of this water source. 
The South-East carries a substantial irrigation industry, and this has grown very rapidly, particularly in the Padthaway area in recent years. Some 50,000 acre feet is now being used each year  by  this industry. 
There is little doubt that there is scope for considerable development in the South-East. While in some areas readily accessible ground water may decline, the gross resource of the area is large. Present investigations are aimed to assess this potential and a water use of say 150,000 acre feet a year may not  be  optimistic A problem in the investigation is the acceptance and identification of a large range of water systems, variable in both history and water quality as against the earlier concepts of a more simple hydrology. Difficulties may also lie in the lack of suitable sites for surface storage and the need to rely on underground storage. 
Other underground supplies. 
The Adelaide and North-Adelaide  Plains  and other areas provide usable and sometimes good waters. In the total resource the quantities are not large. The aquifers of the North Adelaide Plains have provided an increasing supply for market garden and related irrigation,' but the demand level of 20,000 acre feet has been found to be beyond the permant capability of the area and this is being reduced by rigid control in the hope of reaching a balance, the powers of the Underground Waters Preservation Act being invoked. 
In South Australia surface water is limited. That is why I think the allocation in the first schedule of the Bill is less than that in the second schedule of the Bill. In the south east of the State we cannot differentiate between surface and underground water. It is all water, and it is important to South Australia's development. According to the analysis it must be developed and sustained at a constant level. This will require a detailed survey of the hydrological cycle particularly in relation to the water requirements of the State as a whole. I think that there is a great deal of optimism over the quantity of water in the south east, but the quantity will not be established until the State Government is given a greater allocation so that it can make a detailed study. 
The other point I want to raise briefly in the limited time at my disposal is, as I said earlier, that after two decades in office the Government has tackled the question of water resources in a very . haphazard fashion. If ever there is a need in a nation like Australia for a national water conservation authority, as exists in Canada, France, Israel and Great Britain, it is now. We have the problem of the tedious complexities and arguments between the Commonwealth and the States. As I have stated in this House before, the debate on the Chowilla and Dartmouth dams was complete hooey. It is about time that an issue of such national importance was treated as a national issue and not just as a question of politics. The honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  said this afternoon that what has happened with Chowilla has been a question of politics. Of course it is politics. Every State Premier is responsible to his State to do the best for that State. The Premier of South Australia has done nothing more, nor anything less. He is to be praised for what he has done for South Australia. He is preserving his right to a water storage in South Australia, in the same way as the rebel knight from Victoria,  Sir Henry  Bolte, has done. He is going to hang on to Dartmouth by hook or by crook. That is his attitude. 
I want to quote briefly from a paper by Professor Munro which was delivered some years ago but which I think is apposite to the question in point. He said: 
Since the early post war years there has existed in Australia a steadily growing body of professional and public opinion which feels that our national planning of water resources development has been haphazard and based on intuition instead of on comprehensive investigation of the engineering-economic bases for various projects. Such studies as have been made have been the responsibility of a variety of State authorities, often with inadequate facilities and with little co-ordination between them. No attempt has been made to provide Commonwealth wide overall appraisal of Australia's needs, without regard to artificial State boundaries and political jealousies. 
The Labor Party's policy on water resources is quite clear. It states: 
Australia is the world's driest continent. National development demands a National water policy involving: 
Establishment of a National Water Resources Authority to plan and coordinate the development of surface and sub-surface water resources throughout Australia on Federal, State and Regional levels. 
Utilisation of investigation, design and construction teams of the Snowy Mountains Authority-  which this Government has now scuttled -  and State Water Conservation Authorities. 
Intensive investigation into desalination of sea and sub-surface water by solar and nuclear energy. 
I have spoken on 2 Bills in this House, one of which concerned the complete strangulation and scuttling of the Snowy Mountains Authority, which ranks second in the world for constructions of this nature; the other concerned the River Murray. I reiterate what I said in relation to the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation Bill. I said:   . . in 1901 - that was at federation - Australia's population stood at 3.75 million. By 31st December last year it had increased to 12.5 million. The projection is that in the year 2001 Australia's population will be 22.7 million . . . I point out that the present capacity of all major storages existing or under construction in Australia is about 43 million acre. feet. That is a significant proportion of the total runoff of 280 million acre feet. If we assume the present projection of population growth which indicates that by the end of the century our population will be about 22 million, we will need about 81 million acre feet at that time. The increase is 38 million acre feet, which is the equivalent of seventeen times the amount made available for irrigation by the Snowy Mountains scheme. 
Alternatively, it means the construction of 8 additional Eucumbene dams. That is what we will want by the year 2001. During the last 7 years of indecision by this Government more than 20 million acre feet of water has run to waste into the sea. As 1 understand it, Australia spends only 0.7 per cent of national income on water research compared with 31 per cent in the United States of America,  2i  per cent in the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and 2 per cent in the United Kingdom. In addition, Australia's total expenditure on water research is only 0.001 per cent of all expenditure on research. 
-Ipresentthefollowing petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Commonwealth Parliament has acted to remove some inadequacies in the Australian education system; a major inadequacy at present in Australian education is the lack of equal education opportunity for all; more than500,000 children suffer from serious lack of equal opportunity; Australia cannot afford to waste the talents of one sixth of its school children; only the Commonwealth has the financial resources for special programmes to remove inadequacies; and nations such as the United Kingdom and the United States have shown that the chief impetus for change and the finance for improvement come from the National Government. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives make legal provision for a joint Commonwealth-State inquiry into inequalities in Australian education to obtain evidence on which to base long term national programmes for the elimination of inequalities; the immediate financing of special programmes for low income earners, migrants, Aboriginal, rural and inner suburban dwellers and handicapped children; and the provision of pre-school opportunities for all children from culturally different or socially and economically disadvantaged backgrounds. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
asked  the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Has Australia signed and ratified the Vienna Convention on civil liability for nuclear damage. 
What legislative action is required by the Commonwealth and the States lo provide for liability in nuclear accidents. 
What progress has been made in drafting such legislation. 
What is the proposed limit on liability, if any. 
Did the Australian Atomic Energy Commission in its 1968-69 Annual Report indicate that overseas suppliers may not enter into contracts unless exempted from all third- party liabilities and nuclear materials may not be obtained from some countries unless such legislation has been enacted; if so, does the Government intend to take urgent action on this matter. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Does he intend to present to Parliament the Annual Report of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission for 1969-70 prior to the acceptance of the tender for the Jervis Bay Nuclear Power Station. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
If either of the tenders for nuclear power stations using heavy water are chosen (a) what will be Australia's annual requirements for heavy water to the year 1990, (b) at what stage will a local heavy water plant be justified, and (c) what are the likely sources of supply before such a plant can be built in view of the Canadian difficulties with the Glace Bay plant. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Does he intend introducing legislation, as suggested in the 1968-69 Annual Report of the Atomic Energy Commission, to establish regular control over nuclear facilities and materials; if so, when. 
asked the' Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Can he provide information on the Government's plans for nuclear power station development in Australia showing,- in particular (a) projected electrical energy power demand annually until 1990 and (b) projected nuclear power electric generation capacity annually until 1990. 
Will he also supply, in a tabular form similar to that provided to the Australian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy (Victorian Branch) Annual Conference in 1970 by 'officers of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission, the demand by each main reactor tyPe under consideration each year for (i) uranium, (it) heavy water, (iii) zirconium and (iv) fabricated -fuel elements. 
asked the Minister for National Development,  upon  notice: 
Has the Atomic Energy - Commission investigated Doctor dc Bruin's concept of a combined nuclear power and water desulination plant for South Australia if so with what result. 
Has the Minister stated that unit power generation costs from a 500 MW station will be higher than an equivalent coal fired station. 
Has the United Nations recommended that the maximum sized station for the initial ' unit in a nuclear power programme should be 300 MW. 
If so, can he indicate if the more comprehensive training and experience obtained in operating a 500 MW nuclear power station will be sufficient lo justify using a station of this size rather than a smaller station for which the subsidy required will be less. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Has any agreement been reached with any of the three governments who are parties to the agreement for collaboration in the development and exploitation of the gas centrifuge for enriching uranium (Great' Britain, the Federal Republic of Germany and the Netherlands) regarding the supply of centrifuge technology to Australia if Australia should accept a lender for the nuclear power station at Jervis Bay from  either the Nuclear Power Group of Great Britain or KraftwerkeUnion of West Germany. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Arc the economic factors associated with uranium enrichment and nuclear reactor fuel element fabrication such that large plants have a considerable cost advantage. 
Is he able to say whether many countries have found it advantageous to undertake joint projects in this area lo achieve favourable economies of scale. 
Can he stale, which countries are establishing or considering joint facilities. 
Does the Government contemplate cooperative action in this area; if not, why not. 
Will the recent Nabarlek uranium discoveries make co-operative Government activity more desirable. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to a statement by  Mr Yasuhiro  Nakasone, the Director of the Japanese Self-Defence Agency, that Australia might be interested in co-operating with Japan and other countries in establishing a uranium enrichment organisation. 
If so, what is the Government's attitude to this proposal.. . 
Have any discussions been held with the Japanese Government on the possibility of  3tich  a project. 
Can he say which nations are considering joining such an organisation. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Has the South Australian Government submitted a proposal to the Commonwealth to connect the South Australian and Victorian electric power grids with a view to establishing a nuclear power station to supply both States with electricity. 
If so, has the Commonwealth considered this proposal. 
Are suitable sites available for this type of nuclear power station in the south-east of South Australia. 
Would the economy of this type of power station be competitive wilh fossil fuel plants. 
Was a benefit/cost analysis done on this proposal; if so, with what result. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the recent publication "Ecological Factors in ;he Siting, Design and Operations of a Nuclear Power Station' by  Dr Davy,  M. S. Giles and E. Charash. 
Does this publication contain am. data of Australian origin. 
If not. will he inform the Hou&lt;e when and where Australian data relevant lo the ecological hazards associated with constructing a nuclear power station al Jervis Bay will be published with special reference lo (a) concentration factors of critical radionuclides  in  marine organisms found in the Jervis Bay area, (b) movement  In  tritium through the marine food chain of So:.;th Coast estuaries, (O eating habits of  the  local population and (d) redistribution of airborne radionuclides and the influence of local "topography and meteorology on this redistribution. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
ls he able lo state whether the United States firms Westinghouse and General Electric have developed nuclear power reactors which claim io reduce emissions of radionuclides to near zero levels by the development of sophisticated air hold up systems. 
ls it a fact ibm this new system will only add about $1,000 per megawatt to the cost of a nuclear power reactor. 
If so. will he investigate the possibility of having such a system incorporated into the proposed nuclear power plant al Jervis Bay. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Has the Government adopted, as a longterm strategy for planning future nuclear development, the building, initially only, of reactors of the. type  accepted for the Jervis Bay nuclear power station,, and then the building of fast breeder reactors as soon as they become available. 
If not. what strategy has been chosen. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: "(1) Has his attention been drawn to a suggestion by the eminent nuclear scientist. Professor  Sir Mark  Oliphant, that the introduction of nuclear power to Australia should be delayed until fast breeder reactors are available. 
ls he able to stale whether the first fast breeder power station is expected to enter the United Kingdom power grid well before 1980 and that a short time thereafter the majority of British reactors are expected to be of this type. 
If so, will he consider delaying the introduction of nuclear power until these fast breeder reactors are available. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
What alternative sources of advice on nuclear- power, other than the Australian Atomic Energy Commission, are available to the Government (a) within the Commonwealth Public Service and (b) outside the Commonwealth Public Service. 
Has the Government considered commissioning independent consultants to provide advice in the development of nuclear power in Australia; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
ls he able to say whether the Bolsa Island dual purpose nuclear power plant was 'ejected by the Californian participants because the charge for water had increased from 22c lo -37c per 1,000 gallons. 
Is it a fact that in South Australia the cost of water per 1,000 gallons is 44c in Adelaide, 92c in Whyalla, $1.30 in Port Augusta, $1.45 in Port Pirie and $1.92 in Eyre Peninsula. 
If so, in view of these relatively high costs, will he initiate a detailed investigation with the object of establishing a dual purpose nuclear power plant in South Australia, instead of proceeding with the costly Jervis Bay project, which appears to be uneconomic in terms of the cost power. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Was the Australian Atomic Energy Commission established in 1953 becaues of (a) the increasing demand for industrial and domestic power, (b) Australia's then limited resources and (c) the contention that nuclear power could provide a significant economic advantage over conventional power. 
Is it a fact that oil and coal deposits discovered since 1953 have extended the guaranteed projected industrial energy supply by at least 100 years, while the economic promises of nuclear power have not eventuated. 
If so. do these factors make the proposed Jervis Bay project premature. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the cost of electricity produced by coal fired stations has not increased since 1953, despite a 43 per cent increase in the cost of living since that time 
What was the average cost per kilo-watt hour of electricity in (a) 1953 and (b) 1969. 
Do these figures illustrate the efficiency of State electricity authorities. 
If so, why is the Commonwealth entering this field of power production which is the responsibility of the Slate Governments. 
Is it a fact that two-thirds of the cost of nuclear power arises from fixed charges such as capital cost and interest. 
Do the costs of these factors move com.mensurately with rising costs. 
If so, how can the price of nuclear power become competitive with conventional power which has been shown to have remained constant since 1953. 
asked the Minister for National Development,  upon  notice: 
Has Australia, since 1953, become increasingly aware that its natural water resources are limited and that within the next 30 years the south-east of the continent will face a severe water shortage. 
Is it a fact that the population of Australia in the last census was 12 million and by the year 2000 it will be approximately 23 million when the average water consumption ner head of population will reach 150 gallons per day. 
If so, should nuclear power installations be designed not only for electricity production but also for the production of- additional fresh water. 
Are there any reasons why it would not be better to invest in an experimental dual purpose reactor for the desalination of water as well as the production of electricity instead of the Jervis Bay plant designed only for industrial and domestic power production. 
I rise to loin with my colleague the honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis)  in a plea to the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  but more particularly to the Government to reconsider their attitude to the repeated claims by the Labor Government of South Australia lor Commonwealth financial assistance to South Australia to enable it to complete the sealing  oi  the 300 mile stretch of the Eyre Highway between Ceduna and the Western Australian border and to accept the offer of S3m by the South Australian Government towards the cost of the road. The Western Australian Government has. I understand, consistently and until yesterday solidly supported the stand of the South Australian Government in ils claim to Commonwealth financial assistance. Both governments are conscious of the importance to this nation of the sealing of this section of the highway. As the Minister must be aware it is vital to get on with the constructive job of meeting fully our developmental, tourist, trade and defence responsibilities. To overcome what is beyond any question the obvious impasse and bias of this Government levelled against the people of South Australia the South Australian Government announced today as a reasonable compromise it is prepared to allocate some 3m if this Government will appropriate the remaining $6m needed to complete the link. 
It is completely monstrous and totally ridiculous for any Federal government to tolerate a situation where half a road is built. One can travel on a sealed highway from the northern end of Queensland to the north western section of Western Australia with the exception of 300 miles of unsealed road, a section which, because it is in fact unsealed and because of its geographical location, is turned into a dust bowl by traffic and this has resulted in  8  tragic deaths in the last 18 months. Deaths will continue to occur until such times as  the  road is sealed. Let me turn briefly to  the  reasons why I contend that the offer by  the  South Australian Government is not only reasonable but also responsible because it obviously means that it has to sacrifice priorities in road construction in other areas of the State. Yesterday the Minister for Shipping and Transport said: 
I notice that on the Western Australian side of the horder the Western Australian Government has managed  to  seal its section of the road, and while it is to be deplored that these road accidents do take place I think that the Commonwealth Government has been fairly generous to the South Australian Government and it ought to be up to the South Australian Government to upgrade the priority of the sealing of that  oad  against other demands.  1 have read the Press statement by the Minister this evening, but that docs not alter the situation. The honourable member for Gray has already dealt with the latter portion of that statement. 
In regard to the alleged generosity to the South Australian Government following  the  1969 road grants, it is quite obvious that the present Minister for Shipping and Transport is new to his portfolio and that he has not done his homework. Let me turn to his concept of generosity. 1 state categorically that this Government had completely ignored the recommendations of the Federal Bureau of Roads made prior to the roads grants conference. The mere fact that the Government refused to adopt the recommendations is the basic reason why Western Australia was able to achieve its goat hut South Australia was not able to achieve hers. To put it bluntly, why were allocations for the other States increased when the South Australian allocation was cut? Increased road grants to the States in March 1969 were as follows: For New South Wales, $171.3m; Victoria, $ 107.5m; Queensland, $94.6m; Western Australia, $66.8m; South Australia, $43m; and Tasmania, $18. 75m. The breakdown for South Australia is $59.43m for urban roads: $1 3.67m for main trunk roads; $45. lm for other rural roads; and ancillary $9m. 
In substantiation of our contention 1 point out that it was not a Labor Government which negotiated the 1969 road grants on behalf of South Australia. They were negotiated by a Liberal Premier,  Mr 
Steele Hall. On his return from that conference he made one of the most bitter and scathing attacks upon this Government. He said: 
I could not imagine a more disgraceful treatment by the Commonwealth than South Australia received on the issue of relative grants. The Commonwealth has played favourites to an outrageous degree and has ignored the recommendations of the Federal Bureau of Roads. Are we expected to spend $30m of our substantially reduced funds to complete the national roads to the Western Australian and Northern Territory borders? 
What did the Federal Bureau of Roads recommend? My analysis of the situation is precisely this: The Bureau recommended that under the Commonwealth Aid Roads Agreement that South Australia should receive a grant of $ 1 36.6m. South Australia was dished up $129ra, which means that the Stale had a deficiency of S7.6m. If this Government were to accede to the request of South Australia at this point of time, the Federal Government would still be $1.4 better off as was recommended by the Federal Bureau of Roads. These are indisputable reasons why South Australia cannot build this important interstate link without financial assistance from the Commonwealth. 
Beyond question there has been a consistent policy of financial irresponsibility towards South Australia over the last 4 to 5 years. Following upon the road grants made in March 1969 we had the spectacle in June 1969 at the Australian Loan Council meeting of the South Australian Premier attacking the Commonwealth Government's attitude towards South Australia. He attacked the 5-year formula providing for taxation reimbursements, claiming that it was no longer of any value and saying that the whole system had broken down, that it was just a holding operation, and that the way the agreement was working was destroying South Australia. 
In the same year when the question of expenditure on public works arose South Australia again got it in the neck. Tasmania received an allocation of $48m. The South Australian allocation on that occasion was $ 1 0.35m. To add insult to injury, the allocation to South Australia was not only the lowest of the allocations to the States but was also $600,000 less than the allocation for the previous year. For how much  longer must the people of South Australia tolerate what in my view is open political bias and prejudice against South Australia? Beyond any doubt, had South Australia received the allocation recommended by the Federal Bureau of Roads there would not have been constant pressure from that State to obtain a semblance of justice to complete the Eyre Highway. 
The offer by the South Australian Government is constructive and conciliatory. Above all, it is politically responsible. In my view and the view of the people of South Australia the Commonwealth Government has a clear obligation to appropriate an additional $6m to complete this important interstate highway. I sincerely trust that the offer by the South Australian Government will be favourably received by the Commonwealth, and implemented so that this all important interstate highway can be completed. 
1 address my question to the Treasurer. He will recall my question on 26th August last year  ia  which I directed his attention to the doubtful insurance stability of some 5 companies. He will also recall that he told the House that the Prime Minister would be making a statement on the necessity for Commonwealth control of non-life insurance. He then stated: 
This whole field is under, very thorough consideration and at the appropriate time - I imagine in a very short time hence - the Prime Minister will be making an announcement on behalf of the Government on this subject. '  
Is the Treasurer aware that since that time  8  companies, with a total estimated liability of between  $3.  5m and S4m, have been placed in the hand of  liquidators? I again repeat that because of this Government's failure to act, thousands of innocent people are being fleeced. When can the House expect from the Prime Minister a statement which was promised some 6 months ago? 
Does the Prime Minister  recall that his predecessor at the opening of the last Senate election campaign promised that the Government would bring in legislation to inplement proposals for more help for the sick aged in nursing homes? Is he aware of the recent announcement of the South Australian Government that, in an effort to meet the grave financial crisis facing non-profit nursing homes for the aged, it has made a grant of $1 per occupied bed per day over the period from January to September of this year? Is he further aware that the total cost to that State will be $300,000? Since he has modified his predecessor's attitude on age and other pensions, I ask: What decision has been made on the timing and the amount of the increased Commonwealth subsidies for nursing homes promised 5 months ago? 
I together with my colleagues on this side of the House support the Bill. All responsible people throughout this country will applaud and support the measures contained in the Bill. I congratulate the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Hughes)  for introducing it. It will certainly be supported by an overwhelming majority of those who are specially responsible in the various fields of crime detection, particuarly the police forces. This measure has the equal support of those who are charged with the ultimate responsibility of dealing with the offender following indictment. Here I am referring to the prison officer, the parole officer, the social welfare officer and those people who are charged with responsibility from the psychiatric aspect, namely doctors and nurses. 
The one basic criticism to be levelled against this Bill is that it should have been placed on the statute book decades ago. The measures contained in the Bill are not new or revolutionary. To my knowledge, police forces, police associations, prison officers and prison officers' associations throughout this country have pleaded with governments in relation to the necessity for a co-ordinating research body where information and statistics can be collated and, more importantly, where such information and statistics can be analysed in an endeavour to assess the reasons which cause and motivate crime. One must commend the setting up on a national basis of the Australian Institute of Criminology, the Criminal Research Council and the Criminal Research Fund. 
It is beyond question that the cost of crime is enormous. I wholeheartedly support the Attorney-General in his statement that this cost must be reviewed not only from the aspect of loss of Government expenditure but also from the aspect of the tragic waste and loss of human resources. I would go further to state that the loss of human life could well be attributed to the fact that for too long too few have been charged with what has been and always will be the collective responsibility of the community as a whole. Dedicated men in this field have been and still are making great personal sacrifices to preserve the safety and security of the individual in society. The number of police officers, prison officers and others who have paid the supreme sacrifice has increased in recent years. Current figures clearly reveal a growth in the crime rate, and this sacrifice will increase rather than decrease despite the fact that we live in a so-called affluent society. 
I do not intend to quote statistics because during the course of the debate several speakers have devoted quite a proportion of their time to this exercise, lt is beyond doubt that the rate of unsolved crime is increasing in all States as well as under the Commonwealth jurisdiction, but rehabilitation of offenders has not increased. It has decreased. A department of criminology alone will not solve or prevent crime. The same instrumentalities will be charged with the responsibility and the pevention and detection of crime will remain with the man or woman engaged on the job. But it is beyond question that this prevention and detection will be much more speedy with the aid of the knowhow passed on from this research body. Surely we are all aware of the need to improve this situation. The problem is: How should it be done? 
I state categorically that the Australian Institute of Criminology will certainly help but surely it is obvious that there is a tremendous amount of work to be done. Before the benefits become tangible or rewarding obviously there will be a considerable gap in the time factor. But what is more obvious is that in the meantime the crime rate will continue to increase, the population will continue to increase and similarly the cost of crime will be inflated. If current law enforcement agencies are to continue at the current personnel strength their effectiveness will decrease tragically. In my view, this is the immediate problem. The Bill before us is geared to cope with the long term aspect. It will in no way cope with the current crisis. 
There is not one police force in this country that is not in need of more men, there is not one police force that is not in need of better accommodation, and not one police force is not in need of more specialised equipment. In my view, this situation must be corrected now. Such police forces will not obtain or be in a position to retain suitable personnel unless and until they are granted reasonable promotional opportunities, better than average wages and, above all, working conditions that will encourage them to overlook the many disabilities associated with the work they have to perform. I am the first to admit (hat wages alone are not the only problem in relation to recruitment or the retention of personnel. Working conditions, morale and job satisfaction are also high on the list of needs, if the plug is to stop the present trend of resignations from all police forces. What is needed above all is that the Commonwealth Government must now grant greater financial assistance to the States to enable such police forces to have sufficient funds to overcome these problems. 
Our society is becoming more complex with each passing day. Governments are finding it necessary to rely more and more on police forces for their administrative responsibilities. No better example of this can be seen than in the Commonwealth Government itself. Under its control is the Australian Capital Territory Police Force, the Commonwealth Police Force, the Northern Territory Police Force, the New Guinea and Papuan Police Force, the Narcotics Bureau, the Customs and Excise officers and the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. AH of these bodies are either a police service or a type of police service and operate in many instances in all States of the Commonwealth. In addition to serving their own governments, the State police forces liaise with and assist a number of Commonwealth agencies. State police forces also conduct inquiries on behalf of the Commonwealth Government in such matters as pension inquiries, statistical reports and the like. Postal investigation officers are also assisted in many ways by the State police forces. So it can be seen that the Commonwealth Government has more than a passing interest in the need to raise standards in the various State services. 
If the criminology research programme is to be successful the co-operation of all police forces is essential. If all police forces are assisted to achieve the standards they have set for themselves they will be able to provide a launching platform for this research project. In ray view research will no doubt reveal the motivation for criminal acts, the density and the areas of crime and indeed will lay down the guidelines for correction. But we will not know who the criminals are or who requires corrective treatment until the offender is detected. By all means give the police the benefit of a criminology research department but surely no-one in this chamber is so naive as to believe that this alone will be the answer to the crime problem. There is a need to provide accurate statistical information but there is little use in proving that crime has increased or that a particular type of offence has increased by 5 per cent if the police forces who are responsible for coping with the problem are inefficient or ill equipped. 
In this debate honourable members have relied heavily upon and have quoted the findings of  Mr D.  Chappell,  Mr P.  R. Wilson and  Sir Eric  St Johnston. 1 think that there is one singular aspect of their reports. There is one common factor. It is the recommendation to upgrade the police with a view to providing efficient police departments educated and equipped in such a way that they properly can meet the demands made upon them in a modern society. This is where the real need lies and the establishment of such a research organisation is in my view supplementary to the real problem. The real answer to the crime problem lies basically in better police public relations. This can only be achieved by the police departments themselves. lt can be achieved in a very practical way by the police becoming more efficient and providing better services to the community, and by recognition of the importance of the administrative function of the force. The police forces should take steps to make this a process which is systematic, intelligent and articulate and one which anticipates social problems and adapts to meet them before a crisis situation arises. 
What is needed above all is the recognition by this Government of its financial and social responsibilities, and of the importance of police and related agencies in an area which for far too long has been divorced from consideration, by both this Government and a large section of the community, although it is a very important link in the infrastructure of a well balanced social community. This measure will have the support of honourable members on both sides of this House. The funds which are to be appropriated lor criminology research are important but what 1 am endeavouring to suggest is that we ought not get our essential priorities mixed up. In my view, one measure complements the other. Criminal research is vital and crucial for efficiency and to bring about a decrease in the growing crime rate, but obviously if we increase the efficiency of the theoretical arm and do nothing to increase correspondingly the capacity of the practical arm to implement the measures contained in this Bill, then I seriously suggest that we have embarked upon an academic exercise. 
It has been stated in this House and outside that the current structure, the current attitude of many executive officers and the current establishments that institutions are geared to cope with and to persevere with, are prejudicial to any change relating to law enforcement or to the creation of constructive corrective rehabilitation. In effect many institutions and agencies are operating on a 19th century concept, clinging to patterns, procedures and attitudes which are both regressive and oppressive and clearly outmoded. Above all they are self perpetuating insofar as crime is concerned. I for one do not disagree with this contention but I sincerely challenge the assumptions upon which it is based. In many cases the assumptions are based on effects and evade the struggle to grapple with direct causes. Prior to my election to this Parliament I had some experience in looking after the welfare of prison officers, social welfare officers and psychiatric nurses, particularly those charged with the care of people whom I might loosely term as criminal mental defectives. 
It is all very well for members of Parliament or people outside this place to level criticism. Criticism is not confined to this House, but there has been ample reference in this place today to reports, surveys and statistics. Far too often I have heard people who have made inspections of these institutions bluntly state that all is wrong, and that if this were done or if that were done all would be resolved. For far too long people who have executive responsibilities in this field have been sickened by the repeated catchcry: 'We agree with the proposals and steps will be taken to implement them as soon as finance is available'. The operative section in that sentence clearly is 'as soon as finance is available'. In my experience in the past decade there have been dramatic changes in these institutions, but not one executive officer, whether he was a police commissioner, a comptroller of prisons, a director of mental services or a director of social welfare, has to my knowledge ever stated that he was satisfied with the existing situation. Anyone who takes the time to study police commissioners' annual reports will find ample testimony to this effect. All have persistently and consistently pressed for constructive and much needed reform. 
The men and women employed in these controlling departments are fully conscious of the need for better facilities and equipment and for modern buildings. They are constantly endeavouring to reorganise and carry out reform. But tragically this matter is often shuffled into a ministerial pigeonhole because these areas rarely, if ever, attract public support or votes. The public is less likely to complain if tax revenue is spent on better roads, water and sewerage and better education. An entirely different approach is adopted when money is required for a complete review of penal reform or social welfare corrective agencies. Let me state a couple of instances of this. 
In my State of South Australia dramatic changes have taken place in these agencies and institutions and they have come about only because of the action of Labor governments in that State since 1965. Until this year the women's prison in South Australia was situated in the middle of the Adelaide Gaol which was built 2 years after the State was colonised. It has been modified slightly since that time. Women were incarcerated in that place without segregation. In other words, a female prisoner on an indictable charge such as murder would be placed in the same section as a. female prisoner on a charge of petty larceny. It needs little imagination to visualise the problems which this situation created for the prisoners and, more importantly, for the staff. Every executive officer and head of department year after year made representations to the Government about the appalling conditions arid the crying necessity for a change because the situation was intolerable for both the staff and the inmates. It took about 15 years before the Government decided there was something ' wrong with that system. A similar situation existed in a criminal mental defective ward where the staff repeatedly, year after year, appealed for additional staff and better buildings. An officer almost lost his life before steps were taken to increase the staff and modify the buildings. There has been a constant struggle by officers in the departments to induce governments to bring about these changes. 
One could recite incident after . incident, some tragic and others not so tragic. Ali these things can be sheeted home squarely to the fact that in almost every case these situations and the consequent human suffering could have been avoided had there been adequate staff, equipment and buildings. Their efforts to achieve much of what this Bill is geared to achieve will be doomed to failure. It will be impossible to achieve what they seek unless and until the agencies which will have the ultimate responsibility to put theory into practice are given the finance to update and upgrade the facilities, thereby instituting the reforms necessary not only to meet and decrease the ever-rising crime rate but also to ensure that those who place themselves outside the arm of the law and those who are entrusted with the responsibility of both custody and rehabilitation are given the equipment to do so. Bluntly, one complements the other; one is rendered useless without the other. While I support the Bill, I remind the Mouse that, in the light of what I have said, this Bill goes only part of the way towards solving this national problem or this national crisis which for too long the Government and the community at large have treated with appalling apathy and neglect. 
asked the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
Do the current provisions of the Sheltered Employment (Assistance) Act provide that the capital subsidy for purchasing land for residential hostels at sheltered workshops will only be granted on the basis of 12 people per acre. 
If so, is this level per acre based upon the requirements of the Aged Persons Homes Act. 
Is it a fact that the concept of total development of the handicapped person must include adequate social and recreational facilities, as these people are generally in the younger age group and their mental and physical disabilities require a far greater area per person than that allocated to aged persons. 
If so, will he take steps to ensure that this subsidy (a) is granted on the basis of 6 persons per acre and (b) places sheltered workshops on a parity with those rehabilitation centres provided by his own Department. 
asked the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
Is he able to say whether the artificial limb and appliance section of the Repatriation Department has for some time provided appliances and prosthetics for civilians. 
Are these services provided free to exservice personnel while other applicants are obliged to meet all costs in full or immediately submit an order guaranteeing payment from a recognised welfare agency as payment by instalments is refused. 
Will he take appropriate steps to ensure that civilian applicants who, because of their physical disabilities, need to be fitted with these appliances or prosthetics are provided with this service free of charge. 
What would be the estimated cost of this proposal. 
1 present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and the Members of the House of Representatives in the Federal Parliament assembled: The humble Petition of the citizens of South Australia respectfully sheweth: 
The red kangaroo and many other marsupials, through shooting for pet foods and other purposes, have been reduced to a numerical level where their survival is in jeopardy. 
It is an indisputable fact that no natural resources can withstand hunting on such a concentrated scale, unless some provision is made for their future. 
We. your petitioners, therefore humbly pray that: The export of all kangaroo products, including pet foods and furs, be banned immediately. And, your petitioners, as in duty bound will ever pray. 
I rise tonight to draw to the attention of the House and more particularly the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  the glaring anomalies in section 82f (3) (f) of the Income Tax and Social Services Contribution Assessment Act. The matter I wish to raise involves a constituent who applied for a taxation allowance as prescribed within the provisions of that section of the Act. That section states:   . . in respect of a medical or surgical appliance (not otherwise specified in this definition) prescribed by a legally qualified medical practitioner; 
As I will clearly show, this subsection in its present form is harsh in its implementation and mitigates against just and deserving claims, as the case I will outline demonstrates. The case involves a 45 year old married woman with two young children.  Her  husband is an electrician. Quite suddenly some 18 months ago she contracted an extremely rare and little known disease called idiopathic autonomic degeneration. She suffers from an incurable degeneration of the sympathic nervous system which affects the control of the sweat glands to a most advanced degree. The human body uses a process of sweating and evaporation of sweat to control body temperature and the body needs to maintain temperature within very close limits. This woman's body mechanism which should maintain a temperature within critical limits does not function or does not function adequately. She must therefore live constantly in an environment where the temperature is at least higher than normal body temperature. 
She was advised by 3 specialists to procure an air-conditioning unit. The disease is incurable and will lead inevitably to an early death. Let me further emphasise two additional facts. There is nothing known to medical science that can be done for this woman and there is nothing known to medical science which can be either administered or prescribed for her. Because of her tragic condition she was advised, following extensive treatment at the Royal Adelaide Hospital and following extensive clinical analysis by the Associate Professor of Human Physiology and Pharmacology at Adelaide University, that if she wished to return to her home, in view of the disease and the fact that she cannot control her body temperature, she would have to have an air-conditioning unit. Without the unit she would suffer a marked deterioration in health and the consequences could well be fatal. The husband was advised by the hospital authorities that he would be entitled to a taxation allowance on the cost of the unit which was $357. He submitted a claim to the Taxation Office but the claim was rejected. He lodged an appeal with the Commonwealth Taxation Board of Review which dismissed the appeal on the following grounds: 
As the Board has pointed out before, the legislature has seen fit to grant a deduction not in respect of an appliance prescribed by a legally qualified medical practitioner, but only in respect of a medical or surgical appliance so prescribed. 
The view which has been taken by this Board is that a medical or surgical appliance is one which is manufactured or generally regarded because of its very nature to be an appliance designed for medical or surgical ends. lt is not, then, the use to which a person puts an appliance, which, in our view, determines the matter but rather the nature of the appliance itself. 
It seems to us that an air-conditioning unit sold commercially for general purposes cannot be described as a medical or surgical appliance, or as some other type of appliance, depending upon the particular circumstances or the health of its user. We would then for these reasons (though the case for the taxpayer is one deserving the greatest sympathy) reject the claim. 
The House will readily grasp from the reasons just quoted the untenable position facing this Board because of the terms of the Act. I carried out an investigation prior to submissions being made to the Board in an effort to establish, firstly, whether such an air-conditioning unit was manufactured and, if so, when and where; secondly, whether there was such a unit ever manufactured which had ceased to be produced; thirdly, whether there was a unit procurable, and, if so, where; fourthly, if not, was it procurable by way of lease by a hospital, by a clinic or by a university; and fifthly, does there exist any unit so produced that could be construed by way of patent as a medical or surgical airconditioning unit. I drew a complete blank. There does not exist anywhere in Australia such a patented medical or surgical appliance. Therefore it was utterly impossible for the husband in this case to comply either with the provisions of the Act or with the subsequent interpretation of that Act by the Commonwealth Taxation Board of Review. 
Let me state 3 ludicrous examples of this case. Consider a person suffering from chronic bronchitis who is supplied with an oxygen tent for the very same reason that this woman was issued with an airconditioning unit. This sufferer complies with the Act. but my constituent cannot. In the second case, if this woman had taken her unit to a medical or surgical manufacturer and he had slapped his brand on the unit she would have complied with the Act. Thirdly, had this woman been prepared at great discomfort to sit in a bath and cover herself with cold sheets, provided that they were green sheets supplied by the Royal Adelaide Hospital, she would in all probability have complied with the provisions of the Act. Surely this is ridiculous untenable, illogical and totally unjust. In all equity and justice, disregarding the format of the existing provisions of the Act, surely the benefit of the doubt must go to this woman. 
There ought to be some fundamental criteria upon which judges in these cases can be motivated to a reasonably humane decision. There should be criteria such as these: First, the nature of the illness; second, the fact that it is incurable; third, that medical science can give her nothing and do nothing; fourth, that there is no other known medical alternative; and fifth, for this woman to continue to live a normal life, because she cannot herself control her own body temperature and medical science cannot help, the only ray of hope within the realm of the total knowledge of medical science is for her to get a mechanical substitute. The doctor cannot tell the woman where to purchase a patented medical or surgical appliance because in fact, no such appliance is produced any where. As a consequence her only alternative is to procure an equally efficient substitute but. because it is not patented as a surgical or medical appliance, this woman is denied the right to use the provisions of the Act. 
Quite frankly, I pleaded with my constituent to take this case to the Supreme Court. In all sincerity, I could not envisage the Supreme Court rejecting an application made on these compassionate grounds. The basic reason why her husband could not apply to the Supreme Court was that he is an ordinary worker with a single income and he just could not afford the cost. I have spoken to the Treasurer  (Mr Sneddon)  and have furnished him with copies  of  the judgment. I requested him to be here this evening but. in fairness to him, he said that he could not be. Only a small amount is involved in this claim. The man's taxable income is$2,087 and the cost of the unit is $357. If this were allowed as a tax deduction, his taxable income would become $1,730 on which his tax would be $165.61. In effect, the tax saving would be $71.45. As it is impossible for this constituent to test the claim before the Supreme Court, and in view of what I have said, I ask the Minister to exercise his power as an act of grace and remit the small amount  of  tax that is involved. I believe this constituent and his family deserve the utmost sympathy and consideration. 

 Mr Foster (Stunt) (11.56)  -  Mr Speaker  - Motion (by  Mr Swartz)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Have telephone rental charges for pensioners increased since 1st May 1960 by between $6.39 and $11.84 irrespective of those increases due to urban growth in the exchange areas. 
It so, does this represent a percentage increase of some 61 to 97 per cent which is approximately equal to the percentage rises for other subscribers. 
Have these increases occurred while (a) the consumer price index has risen by some 28 per cent, (b) the average weekly earnings have increased by some 71 per cent, (c) single rate pensions have increased by 63 per cent and (d) married rate pensions have increased by 45 per cent. 
Does this position show an increasing disparity between the share of productivity allotted to pensioners and that allotted to other sections of the community, especially when (he added effect of urban growth produces such a large increase for example, some 165 per cent in telephone rentals in Canberra. 
Is it a fact that as technology, relative labour force requirements and the volume of business improves, these costs should rise less rapidly than consumer prices and in line, for example, with the 9.1 per cent rise in the consumer price index for household supplies and appliances. 
If so, will he take immediate steps to remove the recent increased telephone rental charges imposed on pensioners. 
I direct to the PostmasterGeneral a question which concerns a film on apartheid which was made in South Africa and is entitled 'End of Dialogue'. Has that film been shown on television by Swedish, Dutch, West German and East German stations and by the Columbia Broadcasting System and the British Broadcasting Corporation? Has the Australian Broadcasting Commission refused to show it on the grounds that the Commission must pursue a policy of impartiality and present a balanced view on all subjects? As the Australian Government has officially declared its abhorrence of South Africa's apartheid policies I ask: How can the ABC's suppression of this film be justified on the grounds of official impartiality? 
Beyond doubt the most discussed subject on the economic agenda is the problem of inflation inflicted on this country by the LiberalCountry Party coalition in 1949, and which has markedly increased ever since. After 2 decades of Liberal Government inflation is now part and parcel of its economic tools of trade. Surely in dealing with the evils of inflation, but more particularly its effects, a responsible government with any semblance of sensitivity, concern or compassion is politically, socially and morally bound to ask itself: What section or sections of the community suffer the most from its effects and have the least defence against it? Who are they who are being forced to subsist on charity and to endure degradation and poverty because of it? Who are they who are being stripped of all semblance of human dignity and self-respect because of it? 
Obviously this Government does not know that they are the aged, the sick, the infirm, the families with only one parent, the unemployed migrant, the Aboriginal, the unemployed and the chronically ill. 
Why, after 20 years of Liberal Government, has this Government persistently ignored these questions? The answer is simple. It is a government which blatantly supports private affluence and condones public squalor. The record of this Government should be a matter of total public condemnation. Let me, because of limitation of time, confine my remarks to one area of need which has reached crisis proportions. I refer to the plight of the sick aged. This Government's attitude and policy can be summed up in two simple sentences. Firstly, welfare has become a matter of politics, rather than humanity. Secondly, the Government has created a vast number of pro fessional beggars because it has preferred to patch up in an ad hoc fashion a system which is outdated, archaic and at best rotten. 
My colleagues and I on this side of the House have persistently stressed that this is a matter of urgency and that Government action is needed now, particularly in view of the crushing financial burden facing nonprofit nursing homes. With the concurrence of honourable members I incorporate in Hansard recommendations of the Commonwealth Committee of Inquiry into Health Insurance and the Senate Select Committee on Medical and Hospital Costs relating to nursing homes and nursing home benefits. 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Health been drawn to the banning by the 
Japanese Government of DDT and pesticides containing cancer-causing kinds of hydrocarbons, on the ground that they have effects of long lasting contamination of vegetables and dairy milk and are gravely injurious to human health? Has the Minister been informed that the ban on DDT as a farm pesticide is to be reinforced by a $7,500 fine for its use in agriculture after 1st May 1971? Is any legislation contemplated by the Government to ban these health hazards along similar lines to the Japanese Government's action in view of the conclusive results of Japanese research? 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to a statement on 23rd April 1971 by the New South Wales Attorney-General that the Federal Government was expected to legislate next month to strengthen controls in the car insurance field. 
Does the Government intend to take this action; if not, when will he introduce legislation to control general (non-life) insurance companies. 
Can he state (a) what motor insurance companies and brokerage firms have been placed in the hands of liquidators and (b) what sum was involved in each case during the last 5 years. 
 I support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart).  If the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Whittorn)  is concerned about obsolescent equipment being installed at Jervis Bay 1 suggest that he support the amendment proposed by the Opposition today. If current Government policy continues for the next 3 or 4 years honourable members opposite will still be in the situation they are in today, supporting a further deferment. 
The Opposition's amendment calls for the setting up of a select committee to inquire into and report upon the whole question of power insofar as it affects Australia generally. The Government is deferring the Jervis Bay project because of economic reasons. That is a fallacious reason. lt has taken this Government more than 2 years to realise that nuclear power is not economic at this point of time. The Government's admission that it is now forced to shelve the whole Jervis Bay project is once again a classic example of its sheer bungling and its irresponsible approach to national issues. The Government has shown its abhorrence to any semblance of recognition of the necessity for inquiry, or investigation to ensure that the appropriation of the taxpayers' money is spent responsibly and constructively. The statement by the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  today, which is but one of his numerous statements made during approximately the last month, confirms the feeling, never more starkly portrayed than on this issue, widely held throughout the community that this Government's policy is to thrust Australia into the field of nuclear power without any reference to Parliament, and without recourse to parliamentary inquiry, parliamentary debate, public inquiry or public debate. The whole bungle is a waste of the taxpayers' money and has been carried out with sheer political arrogance and public contempt. It is not an isolated issue. One only has to look at the identical machinations of this Government's Liberal Party colleagues in New South Wales with respect to the scandalous Clutha Development deal, with the connivance of this Government, to establish a commitment to this, their accepted form of policy implementation and executive government. 
I do not intend to go into any technical detail but surely in a democracy information concerning the activities of government and policy decisions should be open to all so that people can know the full nature of their rights and privileges as decided by their elected representatives and so that informed and adequate public debate can take place on policy issues to ensure that checks and balances are available on the activities of government. Both this Government and the Askin Government in New South Wales stand indicted in respect of both Jervis Bay and the Clutha deal, because both projects were a fait accompli before either Parliaments or the public had any chance to question, to challenge or to evaluate the issues in terms of cost and in respect of economic, social or environmental factors. We are faced now with the spectacle of this whole project being suspended, despite the heavy appropriation of money. At least during the period of suspended animation we could examine the whole question constructively by means of a positive and detailed searching inquiry to ensure that the Government does not, in fact, perpetuate the existing bungle. 
Let me make this objective observation: If one compares the Australian Government's attitude to questioning, investigation, parliamentary debate and parliamentary inquiries with other major countries which have gone deeply into the field of nuclear power one comes up with some interesting results. The system of licensing nuclear reactors in the United States of America is particularly important. It involves a number of stages. First, there is a public evaluation study by the United States Atomic Energy Commission. This is known as the safety report. Secondly, there is a report from the Advisory Committee on Reactor Safeguards - again public. Thirdly, there are public hearings before the grant of a construction permit. Fourthly, the Joint Committee on Atomic 
Energy of the Congress is available for an overall review. Also in the United States is a Freedom of Information Act which specifies that all information held in government files will be open to public inspection with the exception of information relating to national security or the privacy of the individual. 
In Canada the scope for public debate is almost as wide. The Parliament has a comprehensive and wide-ranging system of standing committees able to investigate all aspects of government. Numerous advisory bodies exist which publish regular reports on the advice they give. In addition the Canadian Government has used the mechanism of the royal commission to air major policy problems. Examples are the numerous reports of the Science Council of Canada. Further, the Canadian Government does not always announce policy but attempts to allow for participation in policy making. For instance, the Senate Standing Committee on Banking and Commerce recently has been investigating a White Paper entitled 'Proposals for Tax Reform'. I commend that particular inquiry to the Australian Government. Over the last 2 years the Canadian Senate Science Policy Committee, as part of its terms of reference, has looked into the question of nuclear power. 
In Great Britain the Government periodically publishes White Papers outlining the background and logic of its policy proposals. It did so in 1967. It published a paper on fuel policy. Periodically, and prior to the start of its nuclear power programme, the British Government published White Papers setting out its programme. The first was in 1955. A recent innovation has been the institution of Green Papers which set out tentative policies of the Government and inviting criticism and comment before policy is affirmed. When British power stations are proposed there is an option for public hearings prior to construction. In 1967 the House of Commons Select Committee on Science and Technology published a report on the nuclear power industry. 
The West German Bundestag has an atomic energy committee. The Japanese Diet has a special committee on development of science and technology. This committee has a sub-committee on nuclear power policy and another on exploitation of power reactors. The Netherlands Parliament has a committee for atomic energy. Most parliaments have a comprehensive standing committee system within which one committee will have the authority to examine nuclear power legislation, policy problems or administration. 
The Australian Government's policy is unique as on so many current issues which are bedevelling our nation it stands isolated from world opinion, particularly in respect of procedures dealing with complex and crucial issues. I refer briefly to two important issues. There has been much talk about the need for a power station in Australia. In the brief time available to me the point I want to make is that we should examine the possibility of a duplex plant in preference to the proposed nuclear power station at Jervis Bay because, undoubtedly, wherever a power plant is established in Australia at the present time it will not be economically viable. 
On a world-wide basis the expenditure velocity on nuclear research and development has been conservatively estimated at $75m each day for the past 30 years. When placed in perspective the returns have been extremely disappointing. The cost has been justified largely in the creation of a number of nuclear arsenals and fission propelled men-of-war. At the same time significant industrial developments have been achieved, as shown from the nuclear power output on a global scale. Furthermore, an abundance of isotopes for industrial and scientific research has been a useful bi-product. As a consequence nuclear wastes are accumulating at an everincreasing rate. When present difficulties are extrapolated into the future, such debris will certainly become a big pollution problem for many future generations. The lethal, long-lived solid wastes due to the proliferation of civil nuclear power plants in the United States alone will reach 58,000 cubic feet per annum in the year 2000. 
With the postponement of yet another nuclear initiative - the power station at Jervis Bay - it seems appropriate to reassess Australia's nuclear priorities and the procedures by which such initiatives are propounded. I do not want to discuss the question of electricity. I agree with the previous  speaker  that the estimate of what is required in Australia by means of conventional fossil fuel has been clearly documented. However I want briefly to refer to water. In contrast to power distribution, water resources ignore the existence of State boundaries. Except for the, in this sense, isolated States of Western Australia and Tasmania, water supply is essentially regulated by interstate and Commonwealth agreements, although local authorities take final administrative responsibilities for the distribution to the consumer. During the last 20 years the water supply authorities of the States, the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, the Commonwealth Bureau of Meteorology, the Australian Water Resources Council and several other organisations have cooperated to establish Australia's potential water resources. The national picture which has emerged is not desperate by any means, yet the water prospects for some areas of Australia at the turn of the century will require intensive forward planning. 
All water resources, including water in subterranean reservoirs, depend on the annual precipitation. Distribution of rainfall over Australia presents a picture of extremes, with abundant rainfall in the coastal regions contrasting with a few inches in the dry interior. The total annual precipitation is 2,850 million acre feet. It is estimated that 90 per cent of this is lost in evaporation and transpiration as compared with 70 per cent in the United States and 50 per cent in Canada. The average annual discharge for the entire continent - approximately 280 million acre feet - is about half that of the Mississippi and twice that of the Danube. Forty per cent of this water is lost in run-off to the Timor Sea and the Gulf of Carpentaria. Another 12 per cent is reserved for aqueously affluent Tasmania and 24 per cent runs through the north-east coast division to the seas off the Barrier Reef. Most of the runoff from the western plateau divisions disappears to sinks unknown in the unpredictable pattern. This leaves about 60 million acre feet to supply the populated regions in mainland Australia. The estimated present authorised planned annual commitment for this region is 16.4 million acre feet, or 27 per cent of the available run-off. In other words, there is surface water to be exploited with an average efficiency of 27 per cent at present and of more than 50 per cent by the turn of the century, allowing for an increase in population and per capita consumption. The most densely populated south-east area of the continent will soon begin to experience shortages of water from natural catchments. A case exists to explore other resources, including brackish water from subterranean reservoirs and desalination on a large scale. 
The point that 1 wish to make briefly is that there is a question as to whether we should have a duplex plant rather than a single power plant in Australia, and that question ought to be investigated at this point of time. It is my view that no longer can the Australian people afford to give this Government an open cheque, with no limits imposed, to meet its bankrupt policies. No longer can we, as a nation, afford to give this Government an open licence to do what it wants to do to the total exclusion of either this Parliament or the Australian people. The Government has never at any time furnished this Parliament or the Australian people with any matters of substance relating to the Jervis Bay project. We have never been furnished with details relating to either capital costs or the costs to the taxpayer. In answer to repeated questions on this aspect the Government has refused consistently to divulge the actual costs involved. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER &lt;Mr Drury)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
r present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully shewethWhereas - 
the Commonwealth Parliament has acted to remove some inadequacies in the Australian Education system. 
a major inadequacy at present to Australian education is the lack of equal education opportunity for all. 
200,000 students from Universities, Colleges of Advanced Education and other Tertiary Institutions and their parents suffer severe penalty from inadequacies in the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936-1968. 
Australia cannot afford to hinder the education of these 200,000 Australians. 
Your petitioners request that your honourable House make legal provision for - 
The allowance of personal education expenses as a deduction from income for tax purposes. 
Removal of the present age limit in respect of the deduction for education expenses and the maintenance allowance for students. 
Increase in the amount of deduction allowable for tertiary education expenses. 
Increase in the maintenance allowance for students. 
Exemption of non-bonded scholarships, for part-time students from income tax. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
asked the Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the Conzinc Riotinto Bougainville copper project, will cost $400m; if not, what is the estimated cost? 
Is it anticipated that 160,000 tons of ore and waste will be extracted per day; if not, what is the estimated production tonnage per day? 
Is it a fact that the production of copper will be approximately 160,000 tons per year for the next 25 to 30 years? 
If not, what (a) is the estimated tonnage to be extracted each year, (b) is the estimated period of profitable production and (c) are the total estimated deposits? 
Is it a fact that the production of gold will be half a million ounces per year; If so. are these deposits regarded as one of the largest in the world? 
If not, what (a) is the estimated extracted yield per year, (b) is the estimated period of profitable production and (c) are the total estimated deposits? 
Is the whole project supported by a series of 20-year sales contracts for the copper ore with a floor price of 35 cents  a  lb, and other invisions to insulate the project against fluctuations in the price of copper? 
If not, what (a) are the details of the contracts, (b) rate is set as the floor price and (c) fluctuations are envisaged and what are the estimated effects of those fluctuations? 
Is it a fact that a modest movement of the floor price of 35 cents  a  lb will have a significant effect on profit? 
Is it a fact that  a  modest improvement in the ore grade or 0.47 per cent, on which the projects viability was established, could significantly increase profit? 
Is it a fact that the ore body ls  a  fractured one, and the ' first 230 million tons of reserves proved were 0.63 per centum copper; if not, what were the assay reports? 
What sales contracts have been made, or are being negotiated, regarding the sale of gold deposits? 
What contracts has C.R.A. entered Into indicating the countries and companies concerned, for the sale of copper, gold and other minerals, and what is the total estimated value of these contracts? 
Is it a fact that at the base price, the revenue of the project will pass the total capita! investment inside 3 years from the date of commencement of production; if not, what is the estimated date at which the net return will equal capital Investment? 
What will be the total tonnage extracted during the estimated life of the mine in terms of copper, gold and other minerals? 
Will other types of minerals md byproducts be extracted from this project; if so. what are they and what ls the market potential and estimated capital return in each case? 
ls it a fact that C.R.A.'s share of the profit is 40 per cent; if not, what is the company's share? 
What percentage of net profit wilt te paid to the Territory of Papua New Guinea (a) before tax and (b) after tax? 
Is it a fact that the Territory of Papua New Guinea holds 20 per cent of the equity in the project; if not, what equitay is held bv the Territory, and what rights has the Territory to possible new share issues? 
Will royalties be paid to the Territory; if so, at what rate and what Is the estimated total return? 
Is it a fact that exports from the project are expected to more than double and that the total revenue is estimated as between $200 and $300m during the first 10 years of operation: if not, what is the estimated revenue from 'be project over this period? 
Is it a fact that the people of Rorovana were given $37,000 and the right to subscribe at par in the issue of shares in the project; if noi. v.hat are the details? 
Is he able to say what percentage of the share capital of C.R.A. is held by Rio Tinto Zinc and what percentage of the share capital of Rio Tinto inc is held by Australians? 
What steps is the Government taking to ensure that in future development of the Territory the capital investment and profitability of major projects will accrue increasingly to the indigenous people by public and private acquisition and control of their own resources and industries? 
Are Australia's trusteeship powers sufficient to have allowed public development of Bougainville copper on behalf of all inhabitants by means of a statutory corporation, commission or similar body? 
ls Australia's access to overseas capital and other domestic resources sufficient to have allowed development of Bougainville copper with the same capital investment, recoverable in the same period as under the existing private enterprise initiative? 
What were the terms of the two bans raised by the Territory of Papua and New Guinea during 1969-70 and 1970-71 referred to in his answer to question No. 2351 (Hansard 1st April 1971, page 1406)? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a film, recently screened throughout Australia and produced by the Central Office of Information in the United Kingdom, which deals specifically with the problem of high speed heavy vehicles and the dangerous overshoot by jet aircraft? 
If so, is the adoption of a gravel arrester recommended as one method of minimising both these hazards? 
Is the Minister able to say whether, since 1966, the Royal Aircraft Establishment at Farnborough has conducted experiments by extending the runway used by conventional jet aircraft so that in emergencies, normally involving overshooting procedure, an aircraft, rather than dangerously abort the landing, can continue the landing procedure and move into a bed of gravel continuous with the runway? 
If so, can the Minister say whether these experiments have shown that an aircraft moving into the gravel arrester is rapidly brought to a stop without damage to the aircraft, or injury to either crew or passengers? 
Have the findings of the Royal Aircraft Establishment been examined by his Department; if so, with what result? 
If not, will the Minister initiate an inquiry Into the potentialities of the gravel arrester? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What is the ratio between (a) the number  of  people aged 60 years  or  more and (b) the number of public and private approved nursing home beds throughout Australia? 
What would be the cost to the (a) Federal Government and (b) pensioners if the fees charged for those at present accommodated in approved nursing homes were covered by provisions comparable to those which apply to hospital costs under the National Health Act. 
What is the optimum number of nursing home 'beds required for the present Australian population aged 65 years or more? 
Will the Minister, in view of the financial crisis facing non-profit approved nursing homes, make an immediate subsidy of $2 per day (in addition to the ordinary nursing home care of $2 per day or the intensive care of$5 per day Commonwealth benefit) to all full-rate pensioners who are accommodated in these nursing homes. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully sheweth - 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled: The petition of the undersigned electors of the State of South Australia respectfully showeth: 
That Charles Martin, a 24 year old graduatein building technology is in Cadell Prison, in South Australia for failure to comply with the National Service Act, an Act which offends the conscience of many electors who are not directly touched by its provisions. 
That his failure to comply with the Act was done as a matter of conscience, and that his imprisonment must therefore cause concernto all electors who oppose the National Service Act, and the decision to send conscripted troops to Vietnam. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will repeal the National Service Act, and cause Charles Martin, and all others imprisoned under it, to be released. 
And your petitioners, asin duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
asked the Minister for 
National Development, upon notice: 
Has the Australian Government had discussions or exchanged correspondence, with the Japanese Government regarding the possibility of co-operating to build a uranium enrichment plant in Australia? 
Which Governments have indicated their willingness to discuss with the Australian Government the supply of uranium en rich ment technology? 
Will uranium enrichment be one of the subjects for discussion with the Canadian Government team currently visiting Australia? 
Has the Government made any assessment of the likely market available to an Australian uranium enrichment industry; if so, with what result? 
Have any feasibility studies been conducted into establishing a uranium enrichment plant in Australia using (i) diffusion technology and (ii) centrifugal technology; if so, with what result? 
Did any of the tenders of the Jervis Bay Power Stations have a condition attached that Australia must ratify the Non-Proliferation Treaty? 
Have any discussions been held or correspondence exchanged with enriched uranium consuming countries to assess whether they could provide a market for uranium enriched in Australia? 
asked the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to a decision of the General Assembly of the Presbyterian Church of Australia asking for State and Federal legislation to provide for corporate Aboriginal ownership of known tribal land utilised by people with a recognisable tribal identity. 
If so, is the Government prepared to introduce the necessary legislation for these land rights in the Northern Territory. 
Did the Government promise the representatives of the Church to educate and train the Aboriginal people for employment in industries centred upon the Weipa bauxite deposits; if so, has any programme yet been prepared. 
Has this educational and training programme been discussed with the Government of Queensland. 
asked the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
Will he bring up to date the answer he gave me to question No. 219 on 16th April 1970 (Hansard, page 1317) following the recent publication of the book 'People in Poverty'. . 
T present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of electors of the Division of Hawker respectfully sheweth - 
That the determination as to which young men are required to undergo compulsory military service under the National Service Act 195'1 -1968 is arrived at by a ballot system, based upon arbitrary grounds as to their date of birth. 
And that this procedure providing for selection by a method of chance is an unfair and arbitrary imposition on the human rights of a minority, and discriminates against certain of the young male persons in the community in favour of others solely by reason of their respective dates of birth. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that Section twenty-six of the National Service Act 1951-1968 be repealed. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I direct a question to the Prime Minister. Has his attention been drawn to recent reliable reports of the belated steps by Australian coal exporters to form a consortium to match the Japanese importers who have, as he well knows, always negotiated contracts under the direction of the Ministry of International Trade and Industry? Does this belated action or the necessity to form a consortium to ensure maximium return, not only for our coal but also for all our other mineral exports, highlight the Government's irresponsibility in August 1967 in completely abandoning its export price guideline policy? Is it a fact that our mineral exports are being sold below world market prices with a resultant loss of millions of dollars of export income? Will the Prime Minister take immediate steps to reinstitute the export price guideline policy and strengthen it through a Federal government consortium for all our mineral exports to ensure maxium prices at world parity? 
asked the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to a Melbourne poverty survey entitled 'People in Poverty' by Professor R. F. Henderson, Miss A. Harcourt and  Mr R.  J. Harper. 
If so, does this book reveal an appalling density of poverty in Melbourne. 
Does the figure of $47.40 per week now constitute the poverty line as updated in this study. 
Is it a fact that the single aged pension rate would need to be raised by 819 per week to enable a single pensioner to receive an income equivalent to this poverty line. 
Will he take steps immediately towards an increase in the basic age, invlaid and widows' pensions of $3 per week for the standard rate and $1.50 per week for the married rate. 
What would be the likely cost of this proposal. 
asked the Postmaster- 
General, upon notice: 
What was the total cost incurred (a) the purchase of Wilkinson's Building in Grenfell Street, Adelaide, in 1957 and (b) converting this building into a mail exchange. 
What was the cost of (a) the mechanical sorting equipment and (b) the installation of this equipment. 
My question, which is directed to the' Minister for Labour and National Service, relates to the retrenchments by General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd and Chrysler Aust. Ltd of 650 skilled employees at their South Australian plants. Is the Minister aware of, and what action does he intend to take following, the irresponsible attitude of both companies in failing to provide any adequate prior notice to either workers or unions - in the case of General Motors-Holden's up to 10 minutes notice was given - or to initiate any constructive or meaningful discussions prior to such retrenchments becoming effective? ls the Minister aware that such workers have suffered up to $20 a week loss in pay? Further, is he aware that profits of General Motors-Holden's and Chryslers for the year 1969-70 were S27.8m and $7.2m respectively. In view of this position will he initiate an immediate inquiry to ascertain why, despite the fact that the tooling component is the largest single cost factor in car production, both companies, in the face of the huge decrease in costs and increase in profits, have failed to pass the benefit, to the consumer by reducing the prices of their vehicles? 
I also ask: Why were tooling contracts given to Japan? Finally, will he undertake to speed up consideration by the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission of the unions' log of claims, particularly the claim for implementation of the 35-hour week - 
I am asking a question. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of 'Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Sales Tax on all forms of contraceptive devices is 27 per cent. (Sales Tax Exemptions and Classifications Act 1935-1967). Also that there is Customs Duty of up to 47 per cent on some contraceptive devices. 
And that this is an unfair imposition on the human rights' of all people who wish to prevent unwanted pregnancies. And furthermore that this' imposition discriminates particularly against people on low incomes. 
Your petitioners' therefore humbly pray that the Sales Tax on all forms of contraceptive devices be removed, so as to bring these items into line with other necessities such as food upon which there is no sales tax. Also that Customs Duties be removed, and that all contraceptive devices be placed on the National Health Scheme Pharmaceutical Benefits List 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I support the amendment. It is quite obvious that the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  has completely lost the point of the amendment. I fail to comprehend how any government can isolate this particular offence, which is a criminal offence, and treat it in  a  special and repressive way. It seems to me to be completely illogical and indefensible and totally unjust that a person sentenced under the provisions of the National Service Act should be, in contrast to every other criminal offender under the Commonwealth Prisoners Act, denied not only the right to release on parole but also the right to have a non-parole period set. The situation exists at present where prisoners in State prisons who have been indicted for larceny, rape, embezzlement or even murder are entitled to be paroled - they are even entitled to have a non-parole period set - but a man who is gaoled under the provisions of the National Service Act simply because he has exercised his conscience is not entitled to this right. The only provision that applies in relation to people who are gaoled under the National Service Act is the provision that a person who is put into gaol for 2 years has the right to remissions. 
Charles Martin, who has been imprisoned in South Australia, would be entitled in that State to what is termed a 10-day a month remission for good conduct. The position is, briefly, that had this Act remained unaltered and Martin remained at Cadell prison and served his full 2-year sentence, apart from the remissions he received, he would be released without parole on 27th January 1972. Let us assume that the 18 months provision had been passed. Once again he would be entitled to a remission. He would in fact have been entitled to a discharge on 25th August 1971. I would like the honourable member for Corangamite to tell the House which State jurisdictions contain no parole provisions. Despite what he said, all State jurisdictions contain parole provisions. What is not understood is that under South Australian law prisoners can apply for and normally be granted remissions and parole after serving one-quarter of their sentence. If the conviction was for embezzlement the time to be served before applying for remission and parole is one-third of the sentence. There is a reluctance on the part of parole boards to grant parole to those convicted of embezzlement if they have served only one-quarter of their sentence. 1 invite the honourable member and the Government to look at statistics. The South Australian position would be similar to the current position in all States. I am dealing now with parole for ordinary prisoners in South Australia for last year. There 234 applied for parole; 100 applications were granted, 61 were deferred and 73 were rejected. Seven lifers, including murderers, applied; 4 applications were granted, 1 was deferred and 2 were rejected. Bight habitual criminals applied; 6 applications were approved, one was rejected and one was deferred. Eight special prisoners, including sex offenders, applied; 3 applications were granted, 3 were deferred and 2 were rejected. Eight prisoners who were sentenced to imprisonment at the Governor's pleasure, including prisoners charged with murder and found not guilty on the ground of insanity, applied; 2 applications were granted, 3 were deferred and 3 were rejected. 
The yardstick that is used by the Government which is totally indefensible is that the punishment must fit the crime. If that is the yardstick which is used by the Government, it should be used in all cases. If the honourable member for Corangamite knows anything at all about prison sentences, he will know that people who are sentenced to life imprisonment for murder - lifers - at least can apply for parole after 5 years. A person in Martin's position, who is in gaol because of his conscience, cannot so apply. There is an old Indian saying that there are 2 tribunals in which a man stands in judgment. One is his conscience. The second is God. Charles Martin satisfied one. History will determine the other. The whole range of criminal offences under all State jurisdictions is such that on each occasion the prisoner convicted of a criminal offence has a right to do one of two things. If he is convicted under a non-parole provision his case is automatically looked at because of the sentence passed by the magistrate or other presiding officer. If convicted under a parole provision he has the right to make application for parole. Most criminal cases come up for review after one-quarter of the sentence has been served. I would like an answer from the Minister tonight as to how he can differentiate between a man in Martin's position and a man serving a sentence for a criminal offence. That is what Martin will be. He will carry this stigma for life. He will not be able to apply for a position in the Commonwealth or State Public Service. Because of his conviction that is one thing that he will have to suffer for the rest of his life. I would like an explanation from the Minister and the Government as to how they can possibly justify the granting of 2 privileges to other prisoners throughout Australia - remissions and parole - but give only the right of remission to an individual who has exercised his God-given right of conscience. It is completely indefensible. I ask the Committee to support the amendment moved by the Opposition. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully sheweth - 
That the Commonwealth Parliament has acted to remove some inadequacies in the Australian education system; a major inadequacy at present in Australian education is the lack of equal education opportunity for all; more than 500,000 children suffer from serious lack of equal opportunity: Australia cannot afford to waste the talents of one sixth of its school children; only the Commonwealth has the financial resources for special programmes to remove inadequacies; and nations such as the United Kingdom and the United States have shown that the chief impetus for change and the finance for improvement come from the National Government. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives make legal provision for a joint Commonwealth-State inquiry into inequalities in Australian education to obtain evidence on which to base long term national programmes for the elimination of inequalities; the immediate financing of special programmes for low income earners, migrants, Aboriginal, rural and inner suburban dwellers and handicapped children; and the provision of pre-school opportunities for all children from culturally different or socially and economically disadvantaged backgrounds. And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I address my question to the Prime Minister in his capacity as Acting Treasurer. The question' relates to the crucial need for Commonwealth insurance legislation. May I preface my question by drawing the attention of the Prime Minister to a reply I received from the Treasurer on 7th May 1971 to a question on notice. It reads: 
It has not been proved practicable to introduce legislation during the present session, but it hoped that legislation will be ready for introduction during the Budget session. 
I ask the Prime Minister:. Is he aware of a report tabled in the Victorian Parliament last week on the . unscrupulous activities of one of 11 insurance companies, declared bankrupt over the past 18 months? Is this due to the ineptitude of the Government in not providing adequate legislation? Will the Minister give an assurance .that the proposed legislation his Treasurer., promised 5 months ago will be introduced into this House during this session? 
-I want to deal with clauses 1 to 3 which relate specifically to nursing homes. Let me say at the outset that in my view the increased subsidy provided in the Bill is quite insufficient. As I understand the position, the appropriation for ordinary benefits for 1970-71 was some $29.75m. In my view the subsidy payments ought to have been doubled. According to the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  the expenditure for the remainder of this year will be $24m. It is anticipated that this will rise to $51m in 1971-72. 1 ask: Is it too much to ask the Government to double the subsidy? My figures show that the cost of doubling the ordinary benefits would be $59m and to double the intensive care subsidy would cost $39m, a total of $98m. I am not talking about private nursing homes but about the non-profit sector and the public sector. I venture to say that the subsidy at this time is nothing more than a holding operation. It will certainly not take care of any future or immediate increases in costs, nor will it provide for an extension of services for straight out nursing or supervision. In the case of private nursing homes there will no doubt be exceptions to the rule, and in my view the majority of this increased subsidy will not help the pensioner but will add to the profit of the private nursing homes. Funds ought to be provided so that we can permit further action which will inevitably be required such as the daily provision of facilities for retraining and rehabilitation, the provision of day centres and day hospitals for senior citizens, a much more comprehensive coverage of the community with domiciliary services and an increased number of nursing home beds available to people, particularly those with limited incomes. 
In the limited time that I have I want to refer to the intensive care subsidy On 3 occasions I have raised the matter direct with the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and with the respective Ministers for Health requesting that a line of demarca- tion between the ordinary care subsidy and the intensive care subsidy still remain. It can only be assumed that those responsible for its retention are unfamiliar with modern geriatric nursing practice, and it is important that the whole policy regarding the day bed subsidy be reframed to guard against the easy abuse of the present system. The same point is made by the  President  of the South Australian Branch of the Australian Medical Association. In the Adelaide 'Advertiser' of 7th October he is reported as follows: 
 The AMA suspects that some homes kept patients in bed and purposefully did not rehabilitate them so that they would attract the intensive care benefit. 
The article continues: 
Doctor Hecker said the AMA favoured the abolition of the ordinary nursing home rate and the payment of a single benefit with perhaps a slightly increased benefit for pensioner patients.  ( disagree with the latter but I certainly agree with the former. 
The other point that 1 want to make briefly is that the intensive care subsidy is discriminatory in concept and in application. 1 can speak with some authority of the position of 2 non-profit homes in my own State. In both cases they provide physiotherapists and occupational therapists-, the net result being that because patients are ambulatory and not bedridden, which is the normal basis for assessment insofar as the Department of Health is concerned, the ratio between intensive care patients and ordinary bed patients drops to about 33 per cent. It is much higher in private nursing homes. The net result is that the proportionate subsidy attracted by both the institution and the patient is chiselled off. This is quite wrong, lt ought to be the reverse, if anything. I have known of a ridiculous situation where a constituent in a hospital in another electorate had been paid an intensive care subsidy for the preceding 12 months - she required it to reduce the cost - but on the day following' her transfer to another hospital in my electorate the intensive care subsidy was cancelled by the same doctor who had approved it. If there is any logic in that I fail to understand it. 
As I see it, presumably the concept and application of the intensive care subsidy is based on the notion that the greater the incapacity and  decree  of incontinence of an old person and the more bedridden he is, the greater are the demands on an institution. Anyone with any understanding of geriatric care will realise that this is not necessarily the pattern of what happens in geriatric hospitals. As I have pointed out, those who are confined to bed and who are grossly incapacitated may well be less demanding and require less care. More often than not, they are put to one side and completely forgotten. The patient who can sit out of bed and who is partly ambulant, may require far more attention. He or she should be encouraged by the nursing staff to undergo a period of rehabilitation necessitating physiotherapy and occupational care. I think that the criteria should be not whether a person is bedridden - this seems to be the common norm on judging whether intensive care should be applied to a. patient - but on the amount of intensive nursing care required by the patient, whether or not he is ambulatory or bedridden. The whole question of the intensive care subsidy should be thoroughly exa: mined by the Government. A new set of guidelines should be established and the subsidy should be granted with far more compassion and human understanding than is the case at present. 
 The honourable member is a supporter of the Government and it should establish the guidelines. As I understand the Minister's second reading speech, the Government intends this to be an interim measure. I should like an assurance from the Minister that this is so. Can he indicate when honourable members may expect to be tabled in this chamber a report of the Government's comprehensive policy to alleviate the suffering of the aged, the frail aged and the sick aged? When can honourable members expect an increase in the subsidy, because such an increase will achieve ari improvement in the care of the aged and the sick in the non-private and State government areas. I point out to the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  that the Commonwealth Government's grant for the . care of the aged in South Australia will be $465,000 over a 5-year period. The State Government has committed itself to alleviating the burden of hardships on the sick and the frail in South Australia and is confronted with an expenditure of $14m. In my view, the Commonwealth Government's grant is totally inadequate. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Hallett)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
1 address a question to the Minister for National Development. Did a meeting of the Australian Forestry Council, comprising the State Ministers concerned and the Minister for National Development, in June of this year agree to a reduction under the proposed second 5-year softwood forestry programme of IS per cent to 18 per cent, with all States to share an equal percentage reduction? If so, how does the Minister account for the percentage reduction for South Australia alone of 67 per cent? Will the Minister inform the House why such a decision was taken without further consultation with the Australian Forestry Council? Finally, does the Minister consider that departure from a decision of the Australian Forestry Council represents a further deterioration of Commonwealth-State relations, in that one State, South Australia, has received severe and unjust treatment, placing an intolerable burden on it? 
1 second the amendment moved by the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor)  who indicated, as the honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer)  said, a balanced and constructive policy in this activity. But in contrast, after 2 decades of conservative coalition government in what must surely be one of the most important policy areas for any government - that is, fuel and energy - this Government despite 20 years in office is still totally bankrupt of any such policy. Governments throughout the world treat this area of fuel and energy as one of crucial priority. Not only has this Government failed in this decisive area, but it has completely failed to formulate a balanced evaluation to control our vast, rich, irrecoverable natural resources. 
Both our mineral resources and our land are being plundered at an alarming rate by multi-international overseas monopolists to such a degree that at long last the people throughout the length and breadth of this country are expressing their concern and anger. Beyond doubt Australia in terms of its natural resources is being exploited and depleted at a shocking rate for a disgrace ful return. This Government has abrogated its national responsibility. It has no policy at all as to how our natural resources can be effectively and efficiently controlled so that the returns can be maximised. 
Indeed, there are no statistics available on overseas take-overs and even the Treasury is unable or unwilling in fact to divulge the information. In my view this is a public scandal. In the issue of 'Search' for September 1971 Professor Kirov, who is the head of the Department of Fuel Technology at the University of New South Wales, had this to say on the very subject of energy and fuel: 
Planning in Australia has been fragmented at best. Clearly these and many other problems are interrelated and cannot be solved on a piecemeal basis. The continuously changing patterns of fuel utilisation and the growing industrial demand for energy call for much basic data and preliminary planning if  a  national fuels and energy policy is to be formulated and implemented. The task is formidable but that should not be a reason for complacency or inaction. 
This statement is part of a comprehensive review of all present trends in the development of power generation in this country. The source of power in the next few decades in Australia will continue to be fossil fuels and in the light of world supplies of fossil fuel Professor Kirov correctly points to the fact that a total review of the use of our fossil fuels is essential. His assumption in this paper is that considerable supplies of fossil fuels will continue to be uncovered and that world shortages are not just around the corner. This argument ignores the exponential nature of the growth in demand for these truly non-renewable resources. 
Additionally, the national fuel and energy policy is only part of an overall responsibility of a national government towards all mineral resources whether they are really non-renewable, such as coal and oil used for fuel, or potentially renewable but presently non-renewed resources such as minerals or minerals which are renewable now. Certain key minerals should be looked at carefully now. They are petroleum, coal, titanium, mercury and bauxite. The exponential index indicates that all world reserves of petroleum will be used in 20 years. I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard a table which sets out the world resources in these fuels. 
I want to deal with the estimates for the Department of Social Services and the Repatriation Department which embrace returned servicemen, pensioners, the sick and frail, aged and handicapped persons. The Government's record in this regard is of insensitivity and lack of concern and compassion. Its record in this field is a clear indictment of its total bankruptcy of any constructive attitudes or policies to alleviate the suffering that is rife throughout the community. The question which ought to be asked is: Why, after 2 decades, has this conservative government failed so tragically? The answer, as I have said before, is simply that the Government blatantly supports private affluence and condones public squalor. Let us look at its record over the last 20 years. 
We have an appalling density of poverty - of one million people. This means that one in every 12 people is living in a condition of poverty or marginal poverty. The Department of Social Services recently conducted a survey of poverty, but the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  has refused to table the documents, which reveal that 50,000 age pensioners - or one out of 16  -  are living in hovels. The Government may consider that a satisfactory record. I consider it a national disaster. In my area there are 2 splendid institutions, one for cerebrally palsied children and the other, Bedford Industries, which is the largest sheltered workshop in Australia. 1 wish to draw the attention of the Committee and of the Minister to what I consider are some extremely absurd anomalies arising out of the Handicapped Children's (Assistance) Act. A ludicrous situation exists in that there is a differentiation between training and treatment as far as the Federal Government's subsidy is concerned. A subsidy is available for buildings and equipment in the area of training, but not for treatment. This is preposterous. Training and treatment are so closely related that there can really be no differentiation. The majority of voluntary agencies working with handicapped children have recognised the importance of combining both. In the treatment area they provide such things as physiotherapy, speech therapy and occupational therapy. 
The handicapped children of Australia have been further handicapped because of the non-availability of subsidy for the provision of these services. The situation becomes really ridiculous in relation to the provision of a swimming pool, which is a necessity for hydrotherapy treatment. If such a poo] is used for training handicapped children in physical education and teaching them to swim it is presumably eligible for subsidy. But the same pool, if it is called a hydrotherapy pool, is not eligible. Training and treatment need to be carried on together and on the same site. It is obviously more economical financially, and certainly more economical in time, that they should be undertaken on the same site. 
A handicapped child already suffers in its education and training because of the time taken in treatment. If these 2 things are separate and isolated more time would have to be spent travelling between one place and another. So the handicapped child becomes further handicapped because of longer time gaps in his or her education because of the preposterous legislation. In the case of sheltered workshops we find exactly the same anomaly. In the area of rehabilitation of the handicapped it is commonly agreed that there are 4 areas - medical, social, educational and vocational. While it is true to say that the majority of sheltered workshops are in the vocational field, a great deal of their work lies also in social rehabilitation. For many of the handicapped who attend sheltered workshops their social development is largely dependent upon social activities within the workshop area. There is one item of equipment which can be a common benefit to all handicapped people in their social development, and that is the swimming pool. Surely this is one area of physical activity, recreation and social activity which can be put to advantage by the physically handicapped as well as by the mentally and socially handicapped. 
A swimming pool for hydrotherapy treatment is an essential element in the rehabilitation of these people, whether they be quadriplegic, paraplegic, haemophiliac or epileptic. Yet this one item - the swimming pool - is deliberately excluded from capital subsidy under the Sheltered Employment (Assistance) Act. The rehabilitation section of the Department of Social Services, as the Minister well knows, provides swimming pools at full cost in its centres throughout Australia. Surely sheltered workshops and the people who do so much for rehabilitation should not be placed in any different position especially as they would not receive the total cost but only two-thirds of the cost. 
Why should this discrimination exist? Therapeutic advantages are available to the client for rehabilitation in the Commonwealth rehabilitation centre but apparently it is not recognised by the Government as necessary for voluntary agencies to provide them for the very much larger group of handicapped persons that come under their care. In the last month I have conducted a survey and I cannot And a specialist in Adelaide, whether he be a pediatrician or an orthopaedic surgeon, who does not support the necessity for hydrotherapy treatment for handicapped people in sheltered workshops. So there is no medical reason that can be trumped up for the rejection of this application. 
In my view this anomaly needs immediate revision. No longer can the Government justify an outright rejection of this claim. I ask the Minister to intimate his Government's attitude to applying the capital subsidy for the installation of these pools which are so essential for the rehabilitation of these people. In 1967 the Government introduced a sheltered employment allowance. At the time of its introduction the allowance was selected by the Government as an area for easing the means test so that handicapped people would have an incentive to help themselves by attending sheltered workshops. Now the situation exists that there is no incentive for handicapped people to help themselves by going to a sheltered workshop. In fact, in many cases, due to increased fares, the handicapped worker at a workshop is disadvantaged by his attendance there. The number in receipt of the sheltered employment allowance is exceedingly small. This is clearly an area in which the Government could ease the means test so that there would be incentives for handicapped people to work. 
Is the Minister aware that there are many cases now in which handicapped persons attend workshops for only a few hours a week or a few hours a day because working beyond those hours would mean a financial loss to the handicapped worker? Here I am taking into account the reduction in the sheltered workshop allowance, the increase in taxation and the increased cost of fares to and from the workshop. Under all these circumstances the Government ought immediately to review the present means test policy as applied to the sheltered employment allowance. I submit that there is an immediate case for at least $28 a week received by the single pensioner to be free of the means test under the sheltered employment allowance. This is the Government's own figure regarding the poverty line. The cost to the Government, if this applied to the sheltered employment allowance only, would be extremely small. It would be an incentive for workshops not at the moment paying the sheltered employment allowance to do so. At the same time it would show recognition by the Government of a policy to ease and finally abolish the means test for all pensioners. 
Let me turn to the matter of production aids and training aids. Will the Minister take immediate steps to rectify and eliminate what is obviously an absurd anomaly? Items of a capital nature which are deemed to be aids for production are eligible for a capital subsidy, but training aids such as switchboard monitors are not. Surely where a workshop needs a training aid in order to make handicapped persons productive this is an area for priority in subsidy and not for exclusion of the subsidy. The Minister cannot possibly justify the continuation of this preposterous situation. I ask the Minister to reconsider urgently the whole area of supplementary allowances. The supplementary allowance is usually paid to those with less capacity. There is an immediate need for a considerable increase in this allowance and for its release or partial release from the iniquitous means test. Tn my view it is quite obvious that the Government is committed to the continued imposition of the means test on all pensioners despite the fact that throughout all the affluent nations it has long been thrown out as archaic. Surely if there is any semblance of compassion left in this so-called Liberal Government at least it ought to extend some sense of justice and equity to the physically, mentally and socially handicapped, including the quadriplegic, the paraplegic and the epileptic. If the Government is not prepared to abolish the iniquitous means test across the board, surely these people are entitled to all the assistance- 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members nf the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That a migrant who has been a member of the Australian workforce for many years, has paid taxes and acquired Australian citizenship, md seeks to live the last years of his life in his native land or, if an invalid, wishes to see his relatives, is denied pension transferability. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray: 
That the House of Representatives, in Parliament assembled, seek to have Australia adopt the principle followed by Britain, Italy, Greece, Malta, The Netherlands, France, Germany, Turkey, Canada and the United States of America, who already transfer the social entitlement of their citizens wherever they may choose to live. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
In dealing with the estimates for the Department of Foreign Affairs it is notable that Government speakers are avoiding the problems faced by refugees from East Pakistan. I take this opportunity on behalf of the thousands of people in my electorate and the people throughout this nation to record their and my own personal condemnation of this Government for its miserable pittance of S5im to help the refugees from East Pakistan. The crisis facing India and Pakistan is the frightening prospect of a war. If such a tragedy should occur the effect would not only be felt throughout India and Pakistan but certainly throughout the rest of the world. Since the Pakistan army launched its reign of terror on 
East Pakistan on 25th March almost 10 million people have fled into Indian territory. Beyond question this is the greatest single movement of people across any national frontier in history. Official statistics number the refugees at 27th October to be 9J million. The average rate of refugees crossing the border each day is 33,000. The total is now about 10 million. The rate of flow will continue for several months for two or three very good reasons. 
Firstly, a major famine is imminent in East Pakistan. This will force more refugees into India. The projected estimate is that the current food shortage will affect some 25 million people. Secondly, there is abundant evidence that East Pakistan authorities are pursuing discriminatory policies designed to force Hindu Bengalis to leave. There are reports of organised and widespread confiscation of property of Hindus and the re-distribution of it to Moslems. Thirdly, the operation of the Bangla Desh guerillas - -Mukti Bahini- - will increase. This will generate further refugees. The Hindu Bengali population of about 13 million before the conflict will suffer most and will opt, of course, to go across the border. What is astonishing is that despite the overwhelming evidence by the Indian Government, foreign diplomats and journalists, and a host of United Nations officials, the Pakistan Government persists in maintaining the fiction that only about  2i  million people have come from East Pakistan, and further that their flight is attributable to Indian propaganda. One could almost be forgiven for reaching the conclusion that the Australian Government based its aid on the Pakistan assessment, hence the miserable $5.5m rather than what it ought to and must be, $12m. 
The Indian Government estimated that the cost of maintaining 8 million refugees for 6 months is $533m or about $3.2m a day or about 13c in Australian currency for one refugee each day. The Aid India Consortium met in Paris on 26th October - the Minister knows this - and it accepted the estimates prepared by the World Bank in co-operation with the Indian Government that $700m was needed to defray the costs incurred by India in maintaining the refugees during the current financial year. It was noted by the Consortium that approximately $200m has been pledged by foreign governments but only some $20m has been delivered. That figure has been more or less static for the last few months. The Consortium urged that the 14 member governments should increase their aid. Almost half of the $200m is to come from the United States of America. The bulk of it is being channelled through United Nations agencies. 
Let us examine the impact of this situation on India itself. Last June, in the Rajya Sabha,  Mrs Gandhi  stated: 
When any country has to face a large influx - not an influx over a long period, but a sudden influx - of nearly 6 million people, I would like to know of any country in the world which has . faced even one-tenth of this situation before. If even 10,000 refugees arrived in any European country the whole Continent of Europe would be afire. We are trying to deal with' 6 million human beings who have fled from a reign of terror, who have come wounded, with disease, with illness, hunger and exhaustion. And they have come to our country, which is one of the poorest in the world. 
India has a gross national product per capita of less than $90 per annum. At least one-third of all rural families live below a poverty line of 100 rupees, or $12, a month for a family of 5. The Indian economy was on the point of recovery but the cost of refugees in the financial year 1971- 72 represents, in fact, one-sixth of the normal annual development expenditure. What economic alternatives faced the Indian Government? It was forced to make a desperate effort to raise finance by imposing a range of tax increases which will hit hard the commercial and the wealthy. The other economic alternative was to cut back government expenditure and reallocate development funds - a course which already it has been obliged to adopt, but one which is loaded with potential political' and social dynamite. 
West Bengal had been described as a vast rural slum' before the terror. Calcutta, with a population of about 7.5 million people, is the eighth largest urban agglomeration in the world. The slum population is estimated at almost one-half of the entire city population. I remember reading in the English 'Geographic' as far back as 1966 that it was estimated that 600,000 people lived in the streets of Calcutta without any shelter. Added to the immensity of this overwhelming density of human suffering and poverty is vast economic pressure. The potential political explosiveness of the situation created by the civilian invasion of West Bengal lies largely in the added raw material that it provides for political extremism. The honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  should realise that in recent years Communism has developed in the context of war. West Bengal is both home state and revolutionary laboratory for the so-called Naxalite movement. What Yahya Khan has inflicted on India is defined best by Clausewitz as follows: 
What  Yahya  Khan hai done lo India has been the conduct of aggressive warfare by other means, because no orthodox attack upon a neighbouring Stale could possibly be more debilitating. Apart from the immerse tost of providing fond and shelter for such a vast number of people, the social and political tensions that it causes are barely tolerable and will very soon become intolerable. 
When the intolerable is reached, it tragically will lead to war. John Grigg, a correspondent for an English newspaper, addressed the following decisive questions to  Mrs Gandhi.  He asked: 'If you are forced into a war with Pakistan, how quickly could you win it?' She answered: Nobody wins wars nowadays'. He asked: But surely the Israelis won in 1967?' She answered: 'They won a battle certainly, but have they really won the war?' This is a solid piece of basic philosophy which the Australian Government should have applied to the tragic Vietnam commitment. 
India is a country with immense capacity for patience and tolerance, and  Mrs Gandhi  is a very exceptional leader. It was at least a merciful providence that the Indian general election was over before the reign of terror commenced. If her efforts to thrash out a peaceful solution fail, war is inevitable. However terrible it may be for India, in my humble belief it will be even more so for Pakistan. In my view the alternatives to war are: Firstly, Yahya Khan should commence negotiations immediately with the imprisoned Bangla Desh leader. Sheik Mujibur Rahman, to seek a political settlement, the resettlement of the refugees and the restoration of democratic government in East Pakistan. Secondly, there should be a complete cancellation of aid to West Pakistan. Thirdly, unless the world community is able quickly to contribute the $700m a year to maintain the refugees, India's own resources will run out and the situation rapidly will get completely out of control. I believe this Government has a clear political and moral obligation to face up to its responsibilities. I will admit that in terms of political pressure it is extremely limited in what it can do, but in terms of aid, of its resources, it has a very important and crucial role to play. Why is it that between 1965 and 1967 an Australian Government of a different ilk but the same pattern was able to allocate S33m  io  India? In the year 1966 it was able to allocate SI 7m. Why the miserable pittance this occasion when, in fact, the position has far wider world ramifications? We can allocate only $5.5m. I call on the Government to make a worthwhile and meaningful contribution. That contribution ought to be and must be $I2m. 
I address my question to the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister will recall that on 6th October this year he promised me that the Government was preparing legislation for Commonwealth supervision of general insurance other than life assurance and for such to be introduced during this session of Parliament. He further stated: 
Officials and parliamentary draftsmen are doing all they can to have the legislation introduced at the earliest practicable moment. 
I ask: Can he explain the outrageous contradiction between his statement then and that of the Attorney-General in another place on 26th October last when the Attorney-General showed himself to be totally ignorant of the so-called commitment by his own Government? How many more millions of dollars must be lost and how many more tens of thousands of innocent policy holders are to be fleeced before this Government acts? Finally, will the Prime Minister give an unequivocal assurance that the legislation will be introduced before the House rises? 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs on notice: 
Will the Government propose to the United Nations Assembly that the pitiful conditions of the nine million refugees now in West Bengal, and the situation in East Pakistan, pose a threat to peace and international security and that consequently the United Nations Organisation should endeavour to bring about a peaceful settlement that will meet the already democratically expressed wishes of the people of East Pakistan. 
Will he take appropriate steps for Australia to initiate or support moves at the United Nations for the supply of large quantities of food grain to East Pakistan to meet the expected shortfall of two million tons in the next six months and to ensure that distribution is carried out under the supervision of United Nations agencies. 
Will the Government ascertain from the Government of Pakistan (a) the present whereabouts and state of health of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, President of the Awami League and (b) whether or not Sheikh Mujibur Rahman has been charged with any offences and, if so, whether he had been tried, by what tribunal or court was he tried and what was the result of the trial. 
Will the Government offer permanent residence to at least 1,000 refugees from East Pakistan who are considered to have suitable qualifications for permanent settlement In Australia. 
Docs the Government have a commitment to provide military aid to Pakistan in 1971/72 under the South-East Asia Collective Defence Treaty or any other agreement; if so, what form of assistance will be provided. 
Was Australian military aid provided to Pakistan in 1970-71 under this Treaty or any other agreement; if so, is any of that aid still unsatisfied. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to statements on 26th October 1971 by (a) the New South Wales Minister for Transport,  Mr Morris,  who accused the Commonwealth Government of toying with legislation to protect motorists against shaky vehicle insurance companies md (b) the Secretary of the Australian Automobile Chamber of Commerce.  Mr A.  Kelly, who claimed, inter alia, that one company which is doing a significant amount of business has a recent working capital deficit of $300,000 and thai there are indications, particularly in New South Wales and Victoria, that there will be more motor insurance company crashes. 
Has his attention also been drawn to a statement on 27th October J97I by  Mr P.  Cox.  MX. A., that 3 New South Wales motor insurance companies were on (he verge of collapse. but were still collecting premiums as were a significant number of smaller proprietary companies some of which had a paid-up capital of only S2. 
Will he take immediate steps to inquire into (a) the names and the financial position of 'ho companies to which these allegations of impending bankruptcies relate and (b) the position facing policy holders as to coverage and their ability to obtain re-insurance with other companies. 
In relation to (a) Cambridge Insurance Co. Pty Ltd, (b) Mid-Pacific and International Insurance Co. Pty Ltd, (c) East Australian Insurance Co. Ltd, (d) Bonus Benefit Insurances (Underwriters) Pty Ltd, (e) The Oxford Insurance Co. Pty Ltd, (f) Travellers' Insurance Corporation Ltd, (g) Riverina Insurance Co. Ltd, (b) Property Accident Commercial and Executive Insurance Co. Ltd, (i) Motor Marine and General Insurance Co. Ltd, (j) Vehicle and General Insurance Co. (Aust.) Ltd and (k) The Country Traders Mutual Insurance Ltd can he state (i) date of appointment of the liquidator, (ii) total paid-up capital, (iii) total estimated assets, (iv) total estimated liabilities, (v) number of policy holders, (vii Act under which the company was registered and (vii) State or States in which the  company  operated in each case. 
Has he or his departmental officers had communication with all Suite Ministers regarding their agreement or opposition to Commonwealth legislative control in thi.* field: if so. what were their attitudes. 
If there has been no communication, why not. 
Has he been furnished with a working paper by representatives of the insurance companies setting out their proposals as to controls and supervision necessary to retaliate the industry, If so, when did he receive the submission and will he present it to the House. 
Has his attention been drawn to a statement by the Insurance Brokers Association of Australia on 12 October 1971 calling for control to be established over insurance brokers, either by legislation or through an association. 
Hus his attention also been drawn to a call by the Australian Automobile Chamber . of Commerce on 26th October 1971 for '.he Government to legislate so that all insurance brokers (a) are registered, (b) must be of good name and character, (c) must have adequate insurance  experience  and (d) must put tip a bond. 
Is it the intention of the Government to legislate for the control, supervision and regulation of insurance brokers; if not. why not.  
Has he had communication with the representatives of both insurance companies and brokers as to their agreement or opposition to the Government's legislative control in this field: if so. what were their attitudes. 
Has he had over 18 months to have a Bill prepared relating to these matters; if so, can he state when the Bill will be introduced. 
Will the Government give consideration to the establishment of a select committee to inquire into and report upon the subject . matter of the Bill during the months between its introduction and the second reading debate. 
Has the attention of the Treasurer been drawn to the collapse of another fly-by-night fraudulent insurance company in New South Wales, Cosmopolitan Insurance Co., involving some $350,000? Is it a fact that this company was taken over by Life Funds of Australia? Is he aware that 12 insurance companies have now become bankrupt in the last 2 years, involving well over $5m? Following repeated promises over 18 months, on 9th December 1971 the honourable gentleman gave an undertaking to bring in during this session the necessary legislation to give adequate coverage to policy holders in the field of general insurance throughout this country. When in fact will this legislation be tabled? 
I present the following petition: 
To the honourable the  Speaker  and membersof the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to national development 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Craft Council of Australia be represented on the Federal Government Committee to investigate the role of the crafts as an art form. 
Your petitioners respectfully request that you will appoint a nominee of the Craft Council of Australia to the above Committee. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I support the amendment. The first 2 utterances of the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in his second reading speech were, firstly, that it gave him pleasure to introduce the Bill and, secondly, that honourable members would agree with him that it was an important piece of legislation. I for one certainly do not disagree with those utterances. The concept of the Bill is welcome and it is important. But it is at this point that I clearly depart from the views of the Minister. The provisions of the Bill give those people who are to be burdened with the responsibility for its implementation and effectiveness, namely, the teachers, neither incentive nor inducement. The Bill certainly relegates them to a position of relative unimportance and, above all, strips them of the one aspiration to which they have collectively strived  for so many years, that is, identity and professional status. I wish to comment briefly on the approach the Government has adopted to the important question of the criteria and structure of the procedures of promotion insofar as teachers are concerned. In my view it ls both completely unimaginative and puerile. I seek permission to have incorporated in Hansard details of the new promotions scheme applicable to teachers in South Australia. 
The position that applies in South Australia ought to have been consider prior to the formulation of this Bill. I ask the Minister to reconsider that position even at this late stage. The criterion which determines promotion in South Australia is divided into 2 parts - the standard qualities which should be possessed by all teachers and the extra qualities which give a teacher an edge of high quality. What :s important is that those categories are supported by the teachers themselves. They are in fact valid. They are based upon deep professional experience and they evince a greater concern for the needs of the student than for the rights of the teacher. 
The Bill should be designed to establish a model teaching service not only containing all that is best in the current State systems of education but also seizing the opportunity to innovate and create new standards. However, it does little or nothing in this direction, preferring rather to establish an educational system modelled on the Commonwealth Public Service and reflecting Public Service attitudes. The Minister for Education and Science, in presenting the Bill, specifically rejects many of the submissions of the Australian Teachers' Federation, and, in so doing, ignored the status of teaching as a profession and its consequential duty to run its own affairs. 
Rather than reflecting the views of an organisation representing the 100,000 teachers of Australia, the Bill reflects the . views of this Government. Those views are essentially conservative in matters of education and procedures and are opposed to employee representation in decision-making. 
One may, for example, look at the role of the Commissioner, who is to be given near dictatorial powers in the administration of the Commonwealth Teaching Service. He will determine the terms and conditions of employment.  His  determination here will be to the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act, but nevertheless he will be the prime mover in establishing the terms and conditions. Consequently, industrial disputes and questions taken to arbitration will be founded on determinations already made by the employing authority. Surely the statutory machinery should be such as to allow a free interplay between employee and employer prior to arbitration. 
The Commissioner is to be empowered to employ, promote, reduce in status and terminate employment. Some of these functions are to be carried out in tandem with machinery to protect teachers. But such machinery does not operate until after a decision has been made. If teacher representatives were provided for by statute as members of a decision-making panel they would then become parties to such decisions. For example, a discipline appeals board which examines a punishment after it has been inflicted does not always appear to act with justice, especially since the majority of the Board will be either CTS or Ministerial nominees. What is needed is a disciplinary appeals board to which a case would be referred for consideration before rather than after punishment and on which teachers would have parity of representation with the Government. 
The Commissioner may terminate a teacher's employment while on probation. Presumably he may do so on the general grounds of what the Bill calls 'efficiency'. The criterion of efficiency is also used in relation to other functions of the Commissioner in relation to promotion, reduction in status and so on. The Minister for Education and Science has recognised the difficulty in defining efficiency but the Bill's very use of the term and its definition within the Bill as an alliance of qualifications, aptitude, merit, diligence and good conduct raises the whole question of what education' is as a professional activity. The point is that in a modern approach to the educational process in which the teacher is seen as a 'resource' it is excessively difficult to measure his teaching against another's. Clearly I am not referring here to the purely administrative tasks associated with the performance of a teacher's general duties. It is most important that a teacher should be able to deal with his clients - the students - in the manner he thinks appropriate as a professional and without regard to arbitrary requirements imposed from above. Therefore, in rejecting the submission of the Teachers Federation that more weight should be given to seniority, the Government is not merely asserting a belief in promotion by merit, but making assumptions about the educational process that educationists would regard as totally unacceptable. 
Equally serious objections may be raised on the criteria for demotion and termination of appointment. Again such powers will lie in the hands of the Commissioner although, in respect to permanent employees, he will be also bound by the decisions of the Disciplinary Appeals Board and promotions appeal boards. Nevertheless, the way is opened through the Bill to penalise a teacher for behaviour which the Commissioner feels is inappropriate, yet may well be considered otherwise by a significant section of the teaching profession. Again in relation to re-classification - clause 26 (3)- - the way is open, without recourse to appeal nor to statutory consultation with the teachers' organisation, to so re-classify a position as to improve the status of personnel without the opportunity for aspirants for promotion to compete. 
The whole Bill is characterised by an approach which, despite the statement of the Minister for Education and Science that the Commonwealth Teaching Service should be outside the Public Service, is nevertheless heavily permeated with Public Service approaches to employment. An example is the description of teachers as officers and the consequent lack of distinction between teachers and administrative staff, the necessity for Public Service Board approval in the determination of terms and conditions of service, and more particularly the requirement that officers of the CTS should either affirm or swear the oath of allegiance. It is this most of all perhaps which characterises the teaching service as simply another Public Service department, since as a consequence of such a formalised act of allegiance a teacher would be effectively prevented from making public statements in any way critical of a particular government or Minister. Such an inhibition of professional freedom to engage in public educational debate is contrary to the spirit of any profession and an obvious example of the Public Service approach to the establishment of a Commonwealth Teaching Service. Once again, such provisions of the Bill are examples of a conservative rather than an enlightened spirit or approach and also of a bureaucratic approach to education questions. 
I turn now to the matter of the 2 Boards, namely, the Promotions Appeals Board and the Disciplinary Appeal Board. Here again there is evidence of the unnecessary extent of the Commissioner's powers. Neither Board has an independent chairman with the consequence that the teachers' representative has always to face the Government nominees. In other words, there is an appeal from Caesar to Caesar. Again, as I mentioned earlier, both the Promotions Appeals Board and. the Disciplinary Appeal Board need a form of machinery which first deals with the problem with teacher representation rather than a system which scrutinises a decision already taken. In all such matters the Minister for Education and Science says that the Government would expect consultation with teachers, yet the Bill does not statutorily provide for any such consultation. 
A key matter is the position of the Commissioner. The Australian Teachers Federation wishes to have 3 commissioners. But this is rejected on the grounds that the Service, at least initially, would be too small. Does the Minister consider that a Service with 2,000 teachers plus an ancillary staff and more than 40,000 pupils using capital investments of up to $100m and which has a wages bill of the order of $15m a year is a small service? It is nonsense. However, it is not the size of the Service which frankly is at issue here, but the important principle of teacher involvement iri the administration of their professional affairs. The Minister claimed that there are no strong grounds for providing specific representation of particular interests. When those interests are the interests of the teaching profession there is every reason for providing representation. 
A similar point may be made in relation to the Minister's rejection of the submission from the Federation that an advisory council should be established to act with the Commissioner. The Minister claims that such an advisory council would be more appropriate in the authorities. But this shows a false analysis of the nature of educational administration, again revealing a Public Service attitude to the whole problem. The point is that, whether at the level of the Commissioner or at the advisory council level, it is essential not to divorce administration from the educational process. Effective education depends on an administrative, structure in which education as such is the predominant interest. An example of this is the staffing of Education Departments in the States with ex-teachers. Consequently there is every need for 3 commissioners of which one is a teacher representative and for an advisory council to act with the Commissioner. 
In the matter of teacher mobility between authorities and between the State systems and the Teaching Service, the statement of the Minister that 'it is a good thing to facilitate movement of teachers between one school system and another, is a commendable principle. But let the Government shows its commitment to this principle by agreeing to finance the State systems in such a way as to ensure parity of financial emolument that the attraction of the Service does not lie in a Commonwealth financed higher salary scale than the States. Otherwise, the competition will be unfair and one more consequence of the shortfall of $ 1,433m between the real needs of education in the States and the amount the States in fact can provide. 
Again in relation to the submissions of the Australian Teachers Federation, the Minister for Education and Science claims that it is not possible to specify whom the Commissioner should regard as qualified for employment. Why not? All States are now engaged in moves, at various stages of progress, towards establishing registration boards for teachers. Surely here was an opportunity for the Government to so legislate as to ensure that only those persons whose qualifications were acceptable to a registration board, established under the Act and on which there would be strong teacher representation, could be employed by the Commissioner. Instead, the Bill invests the Commissioner with power to determine standards of entry to the teaching profession. Not only is this one more example of the dictatorial powers of the Commissioner but it is also a blatant failure on the part of the Government to recognise teaching as a profession with a consequential right to establish standards of entry. But of course, in the Government's mind education is simply another branch of the Public Service. This legislation reeks of the heavy hand of bureaucracy. It is against all professional and current educational concepts and directions. These concepts should have been incorporated in the Bill. I support the amendment. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to national development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Postmaster-GeneraFs Department 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. This petition of Main Officer members of the Amalgamated Postal Workers' Union (S.A. Branch) currently employed at the Adelaide Mail Exchange respectfully showeth that: 
There is united support for industrial action in the event of legislation being passed that prohibits the right of workers to strike. 
There is united support for industrial action in the event of legislation being passed which allows our members to be stood down because of industrial disputes. 
There is united support for industrial action in the event of legislation being passed which allows for the immediate suspension of our members who refuse to obey an order. 
We believe these desperate measures to be unacceptable in a modern society and pledge ourselves to bring about their defeat. 
Your petitioners humbly pray that your Honourable House will at once, in the public interest, take appropriate steps to have this iniquitous legislation outlawed, not only for now, but for all time. 
And your Petitioners as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I rise to oppose the Bill. The Bill clearly demonstrates this Government's complete failure to come to grips with the root cause of industrial conflict either within the Commonwealth Public Service, which is the field in which this Bill purports to settle industrial conflict, or throughout the broad spectrum of the industrial arena. The root cause of industrial dispute throughout all sections of the work force, whether public or private, can be squarely sheeted home to this Government's bankrupt economic policy. Year after year, Budget after Budget, workers throughout the length and breadth of this country have felt the harsh backlash of this Government's disastrous economic policy. There lies the root cause of mounting discontent, conflict and dispute, and the only policy that this Government is prepared to adopt is to insert deliberately in Acts of this Parliament restrictive measures and penalties. Surely if there is one lesson to be learned and which ought to have been learned by now it is that these provisions are counter-productive and divisive. Rather than settle industrial disputes, they escalate them. 
What is this Government's prescription for the industrial ills of the nation? It has adopted only one policy. That is persistently and deliberately to slam in amendments to the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act and to Acts of this kind, all of which are orientated towards strengthening the arm of the arbitrary powers and the arbitration concept, but all of which have meant a deplorable weakening of the conciliatory or concilation concept. It never thinks of conciliation. It never adopts a policy of conciliation as a rational approach. Arbitration is to be the answer. This Government has persistently paid lip service to the concept of conciliation, but it has repeatedly made sure by Act of Parliament and by directive to that body which is the instrument of its policy, namely the Commonwealth Public Service Board, that arbitration is to be the order of the day. This policy and these directives, coupled with the Government's bankrupt economic policies, are the basic and fundamental cause of so much widespread industrial dispute throughout Australia. The honourable member for Swan  (Mr Bennett)  raised a very relevant point. Why is it that people occupying positions within the State public services have not reached the stage of discontent and discord which is rife throughout the Commonwealth Public Service at this point of time? 
The imposition on employees by Act of Parliament by this Government of bans, limitations, and penalties in awards or determinations of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission as an instrument of industrial peace has proved abortive and inoperative, and beyond question it escalates disputation rather than mitigating it. The Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  in his second reading speech said: 
The Government now believes the processes of the Act need further  strengenthening  to enable speedy resolution of the industrial situation. 
Does he intend to strengthen the conciliatory aspect vital to any balanced industrial policy? No. Again he is going to slam in provisions which make arbitration inevitable and which will make industrial disputes inevitable. What this Government could do, in fact what it should do, is to instruct its authoritative instrument, the Public Service Board, to conciliate in a constructive and responsible manner, not in an obstructive and non-co-operative manner. The Public Service Board, as an instrument of Government power and policy, knows full well that it is obliged to conform to Government policy. That policy, beyond any doubt, is to keep salaries and conditions to a base level. Conferences, as a consequence, are  very  often only a formality. They are abortive; they are fruitless. Minimum offers are frequently made. In most cases no offer is made. 
The Board knows, the Government knows and, tragically, so often the union knows that the only recourse under statute is to apply to go before the Public Service Arbitrator to get a decision. The unions, the Government, the Public Service Board and anybody who has any knowledge of the trade union movement - I had 14 years experience of it, particularly in the Public Service sector - know that the Arbitrator has power to fix only minimum rates, not maximum rates. There is no margin or scope for wages, salaries or, for that matter, conditions, to be increased above the minimum or base rate level. Neither court nor Arbitrator has that power by way of decision or judgment. This leaves unions and associations within the Commonwealth Public Service with only one recourse - industrial action. As a consequence, unions have been forced to fight on 2 fronts over recent years. Firstly, they have had to fight constantly to maintain rates of pay comparable with those paid to employees outside of the public sector which are, in fact, invariably better. The other factor, which was a palliative until some years ugo, is that public servants, not only in the Commonwealth Public Service but also in the State Public Services, found some satisfaction in the fact thai their conditions of service in terms of long service leave, annual leave and sick leave were appreciably better than those in the private sector. This is no longer the position. 
Over the broad spectrum of private indus.ry it is obvious that the private sector has caught up with and in many cases surpassed what once could be termed the fringe benefits applying in the Public Services. One classic example of this is the constant refusal by this Government to extend the annual leave provisions of Commonweal. h public servants. South Australia took appropriate action in this respect in 1968. I look back over my 14 years of experience in this field and recall that until 196S South Australian public servants generally were getting the same raw deal as public servants in the Commonwealth jurisdiction are getting today. Despite the hours spent working over schedules and drafting comparisons with interstate rates of pay repeatedly, year after year, and despite all efforts at conciliation and by arbitration the daily paid workers and public servants in South Australia were the lowest paid employees in Australia. That situation changed dramatically after 1965 for one reason only - a Labor government came to office in 1965. Last year, for the first time since 1934, public servants and daily paid workers in South Australia secured conditions comparable with the best in Australia, and this situation will continue. 
Beyond question it is the Commonwealth Government which should be indicted in respect of this piece of legislation, not the unions or the associations representing the vast body of public servants. Governments improve or retard the standards of living of public servants. Governments are responsible for the balance and stability of industrial relations within the Public Service. Let us examine the record. If one reads the Minister's second reading speech and recalls ministerial and Government utterances over the last month, it seems that the Amalgamated Postal Workers Union has been singled out to get a first class side blast. The record should be put straight in respect of Government activity - not so much the activity of the Public Service Board because, in my belief, the Board is nothing more than a rubber stamp for Government policy. Briefly, the position is this: Industrial action by the Amalgamated Postal Workers Union has been embarked upon only after prolonged discussions for improved conditions have been conducted with the PostmasterGeneral's Department and the Commonwealth Public Service Board. The activities of the Public Service Board, particularly in the review of salary claims and allowances submitted by the Union over many years, have resulted in protracted delays and an inability to accept standards and conditions applicable under outside awards. The Union has a right to condemn the Public Service Board for its negative and unrealistic approach to providing a reasonable standard for its employees. The Union has pointed out that the Board is entirely responsible for the industrial action that has resulted. On every ocassion that the Union has embarked upon industrial action for salary increases following a rejection of its claim by the Public Service Board, the 
Public Service Arbitrator or the Full Bench of the Arbitration Commission has upheld the Union's application in full. 
In the January 1968 disputation involving the motor transport drivers employed by the Postmaster-General's Department, after 5 months delay the Public Service Board rejected the Union's application. The matter was referred to the Public Service Arbitrator,  Mr Chambers,  who awarded an increase of $105 per annum to all employees in the transport section. Not only did the Public Service Board display a lamentable knowledge of ruling rates in the transport workers' industry but it was instrumental also in disrupting the. entire postal services throughout Australia by employing scab labour in the industry with the blessing of the Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme).  This is regarded as unpardonable and totally reprehensible. As recently as 16th March 1972 the Public Service Arbitrator,  Mr Chambers,  formally handed down his decision in determination No. 50 of 1972 concerning an industry allowance of $4.50 a week and associated matters in favour of the Union. On 17th March 1972 the  Deputy  Public Service Arbitrator,  Mr Wilson,  granted the Union the $6 metal trades award flow-on retrospective to the beginning of the first pay period commencing in or after the first calendar week in February 1972, including the standard provision regarding extraneous payments. In respect of both the foregoing claims, the Union met with strong opposition from the Public Service Board which refused to comply with the Union's application. 
It can be fairly demonstrated that every time there are negotiations with the Public Service Board we get this invariable reply no', even if the Union's claim is based on comparable rates of pay outside or on what is the accepted norm in the federal jurisdiction. The reason for this is that the Board conforms to Government policy. Therefore it is the Government, not the unions, which stands indicted in relation to this legislation because of its failure to engage in reasonable and responsible conciliation and conference. No doubt we all recall that the Board was instrumental in disrupting Australia-wide telecommunications for 2 months as a result of its negative approach to Union demands from 7th 
February 1971 to 27th January 1972. All that dislocation, and disruption with its effect upon the public, which is vulnerable to it, could have been avoided by a more responsible attitude by the Public Service Board. Apart from displaying an unrealistic approach by not conforming to current rates in outside industry, the 2 recent decisions of the Arbitrator have demonstrated the Public Service Board's incompetence to keep peace within the industry and provide foremost a service to the. Australian taxpayer. The formula for providing a good relationship between the union and the Public Service Board is to prevent an industrial situation by adjusting salaries and conditions appropriate to technological change and economic need before a disputation commences, not afterwards. If this criterion is adopted by the Board and the Government, the Public Service Arbitration Act would not, as the Minister for Labour and National Service has suggested, require this amendment. I oppose the Bill. 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation. How much longer has the South Australian economy to suffer the additional burden of cost because of the lack of overseas air cargo services? Is it a fact that on-carriage to an international airport from Adelaide involves at least a minimum of 10c per lb extra for internal freight? Is it a fact that exporters, with the support of the South Australian Government, have over the last 2 years repeatedly made representations direct to the Minister for at least one direct overseas flight a week out of Adelaide for the United States, and Europe and one direct Asian flight a week? Will the Minister take immediate steps to implement the services requested by the exporters and the South Australian Government and thereby place South Australian exporters on a competitive basis with manufacturers in the other States? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice. 
Will the Government take steps to increase Commonwealth grants to State mental health services with the ultimate aim of extending the same benefits to the mentally ill and handicapped as are applied to the physically ill and handicapped. 
Will the Government provide a $2 for SI subsidy to the States for the provision of medical and paramedical staff, clinics, hostels, sheltered workshops and day centres and a per capita grant for associated costs in providing these services. 
I wish to raise a question that I have raised on many occasions. Despite what the Minister might say, as I understand the implications of the Bill, the structure is as follows: The Commissioner's decisions will be subject to the approval of the Public Service Board. What is the mechanism? Do I understand that the people who represent teachers throughout the service will commence negotiations per medium of the Commissioner, the Commissioner will consider their submissions on rates of pay and salary, and then will refer his decision to the Public Service Board for approval, endorsement or rejection? Is this the position? If it is, we will be faced with the same discontent that is evident throughout the Commonwealth Public Service at the moment because this, in fact, is the mechanism by which applications for increases in rates of pay and improved conditions of employment are channelled. I think the problem that has been raised by the Australian Teachers Federation is in fact that a statutory authority is proposed. If the Minister had given approval for 3 commissioners instead of one, with the commissioners having sufficient power to negotiate and make decisions on salaries in a professional area, that would have been a different matter. If matters are unresolved they should then go to arbitration. The things which have permeated the professional section of people employed by the Commonwealth will affect this area. The Commissioner virtually will be able to do nothing at all. He will be a rubber stamp for Public Service Board decisions; he will be a rubber stamp for government policy. In my view the Commissioner will be virtually powerless, under the terms of this Bill, to act in the critical areas of pay rates and conditions of employment. 
Alternatively, will this be the position: The representatives of the Australian Teachers Federation will go direct to the Public Service Board, rather than have discussions with the Commissioner, in the full knowledge that the Board is an instrument of Government power and policy? Will the avenues of negotiation open to the ATF be negatived and will that body wind up before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in any eventuality? I venture to say that in the light of the circumstances which face Commonwealth public servants it might be preferable for the teachers to go direct to arbitration rather than to humbug around with what is termed conciliation. 
If the structure set out in this Bill is to be a model setup it ought to be based on the concept of having at least 3 commissioners with power to negotiate constructively on questions of rates of pay and conditions of employment in the Teaching Service. If there is failure to reach agreement at that level then let matters go to arbitration. The moment the Public Service Board is injected into this area the Commonwealth will dissipate any collective constructive consideration that might be given to a very important area. If industrial disquiet in this area is not settled the Government will have a very upset Service. Teaching is a professional service and I think every teacher ought to be granted professional status. Teaching ought to be considered in that fashion. 
The weakness of the Bill obviously lies in the fact that it provides the appointment of a single commissioner. It is perhaps logical to have some authority over and above that commissioner. If the Government saw fit to adopt the ATF recommendation of 3 commissioners, the Public Service Board could be bypassed and allowance, made for a free interchange of ideas between the commissioners, one of whom could be appointed by the Minister, one by the education authority perhaps, and one by the teachers association. In my view the proposal contained in this Bill will not work. The Government has put this Service at exactly the same level as everybody in the Commonwealth Public Service, which at the moment is rife with discontent. The surest way to achieve that state of affairs in the Teaching Service is to agree to the Bill as it stands at the moment. 
I wish to deal with a couple of points which have arisen from the remarks of the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  I again wish to emphasise- 
Am I in order in speaking,  Mr Deputy  Chairman? 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)The honourable member is in order in speaking. Any honourable member is entitled to speak twice in a debate in Committee on a clause. 
The Minister for Education and Science was correct when he said there are statutory bodies outside of the Commonwealth Public Service in which the Public Service Board has an obligation to maintain certain levels of relativity. I do not disagree with that statement. I think that applies to all State Public Services as well. But I would remind the Minister that when an assessment is made of salaries, even on a State basis, the ranges within the Public Service and the statutory authorities are also taken into consideration. The same argument could be used about marine engineers. Anyone within the Commonwealth jurisdiction is equal to anyone in the marine and harbours boards of Queensland, Victoria, New South Wales and Western Australia. But in South Australia .there is a separate tribunal for teachers. Whilst the initial representation can be made to the 'Public Service Board in South Australia the teachers have a separate tribunal to which they can go. That is where they initiate proceedings. There is equal representation, too. The teachers in South Australia do not go to the Public Service Board as an instrument of government authority and make their submissions; they go to a separate tribunal. 
The point that has been missed and that I cannot seem to get across is that the Commissioner should have been empowered to sit down and discuss salaries and conditions on a conciliatory basis and, in a reasonable and responsible manner, look at the teaching service across the board throughout Australia. No attempt should have been made to plug teachers into a certain division in the Public Service because it is convenient to handle thenclaims on a relativity basis when they should in fact be handled on a job basis, that is, by lining up the question of skill against skill. In my view the Commissioner would be in the best position to assess on the basis of equality the rates of pay and conditions that ought to apply to teachers in the Commonwealth Public Service, taking into consideration those that apply across the board. I think it is a reprehensible move to make the teachers' claims the subject of any negotiations. Despite what the Minister has said, the Commissioner will have no power whatsoever to make any agreement with 'the Australian Teachers Federation on rates of pay, salaries or conditions. He will not have that power. The only body that will have the power to endorse such agreements is the Public Service Board. Let us put all the garbage to one side. The Commissioner has no power to make any decision at all. The only power he will have is the power of referral to the Public Service Board. The decision that the Board arrives at after consideration of any proposal with the Minister is what will be approved. My view is that the ATF should go straight to arbitration and circumvent all of this bureaucratic nonsense because if it follows the dictums affecting the Public Service insofar as the Post Office is concerned - many of the postal technicians in this country will support my remarks - it will ultimately end up in that position anyhow. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 26.  (1.) The Commissioner may, with the approval of the Public Service Board, from time to time, alter the classification of a position in the Service by raising or lowering the salary, or the range of salary, applicable to the position. 
I do not want to take up very much time. The Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  will recall that on 22nd March, as reported at page 1019 of Hansard, during the second reading debate on this Bill I incorporated 2 tables, one showing the new promotions scheme for South Australian teachers and the other showing the assessment of eligibility for promotion to  deputy  headmaster. Honourable members will agree that the efficiency concept in relation to promotions is important. The criteria levels in South Australia for the assessment basis are fixed. As I understand the position in South Australia, an exhaustive survey was carried out. The survey was sent back to every individual teacher for his assessment. I am not talking about the machinery of promotions; I am talking about efficiency and promotions. The indication I have is that the criteria which have been fixed have worked extremely well in South Australia. I asked the Minister whether his Department would, between the debate on the motion for the second reading of the Bill and consideration of it in Committee, give the matter serious consideration with a view to taking up with the Australian Teachers Federation, if the criteria are acceptable, whether they could be, as they are in South Australia, incorporated by instruction. I do not know whether they could be provided by way of regulation. I commend the structure in South Australia for consideration by the Department. I think that it ought to be looked at now. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Customs and Excise. Is the Minister aware that last October Japan dumped into the United States 6,300 tons of polyester fibre? Because of savage quotas imposed by the United States Government this was reduced to 96 tons last December. Is it a fact that Japanese producers during that period and since have redirected part of their surplus to this country? Has the Minister's attention been drawn to recent reports in the United Kingdom claiming that Australia is well known as a soft market for overseas fibre producers, which is a polite way of saying that this Government is not taking the necessary action to protect the Australian textile industry? Will the Minister take positive action to protect the Australian textile industry against the dumping tactics of overseas countries? 
I direct a question to the Minister for National Development relating to the Woodside-Burmah consortium as to the north west shelf exploration programme. In view of the Government's refusal to permit Parliament to pass effective laws to control territorial waters and the continental shelf, I ask the Minister: Is it a fact that, in recent arrangements reached relating to the 4 farm-out areas totalling some 21,000 square miles, of the 10 companies involved 9 are completely oversea controlled? Is it a fact that if commercial discoveries are made in these areas the effective Australian share in the total production will decline below the existing 25 per cent Australian equity in the consortium? Will the Minister assure the House that the Government will withhold ratification of these farm-out agreements to ensure maximum Australian participation and control over these irreplaceable and valuable natural gas deposits, valued at $16,500,000,000? 
I want to address myself very briefly to the question of what is in public interest. I think that a lot of double standards and hypocrisy have been spoken by the Government in regard to this matter. I think that if ever a section of a Bill set out to epitomise this Government's attitude on the question of restraint, this section does. What do we mean by public interest? I can well recall a test case in the South Australian jurisdiction, I think in 1930. following the Premiers' Plan to implement throughout Australia, by the respective State governments and the Commonwealth Government, a 10 per cent reduction in salary across the board in the national or public interest. The police officers took the case to the full bench in South Australia, and the full bench rejected the State Government's application on the grounds that in fact it was not in the public interest. This was a case where the lawyers on the bench acted contrary to legislative decisions. 
What do we do in the position where public interest is relative? What happens in the cases where 5 or 6 States outflank the Commonwealth in certain areas? Let me take one example. The question of nurses was raised earlier. Psychiatric nurses in South Australia, from juniors to career and charge sisters were granted equal pay in 1967. In Queensland at that time it was decided that it was against public interest to grant equal pay to psychiatric nurses in Queensland; it was granted only to certificated nurses and sisters. In New South Wales in 1967 Judge Sweeney granted equal pay to psychiatric nurses across the board without any 5-year waiting period - again in the public interest, according to the judge. In Tasmania psychiatric nurses were granted equal pay on a restrictive basis - again, I assume, in the public interest. Psychiatric nurses in Western Australia were granted equal pay in a more restricted area - again, I assume, in the public interest. I ask the Minister, if unions and employers sat around the table and, on a balanced evaluation of the situation in the 6 States, found that something was in the national interest according to the States in direct opposition to the Commonwealth, an agreement could not be ratified on that basis because according to the Commonwealth Government it was against the public interest. Such an attitude in my view is totally illogical. In that case the agreement could not be ratified. It would have to go to the Full Bench. 
A similar situation applies with respect to annual leave. As I understand it, in South Australia annual leave is applied in the Public Service on the basis of 4 weeks leave for day workers and 5 weeks leave for shift-workers. I understand this position applies likewise in New South Wales. Let us assume that this trickles and percolates through the other States. Is it unreasonable for unions and employers collectively to sit around the table and figure out that an industry can afford to make such provision in the State jurisdiction in which they are negotiating? We could have the ridiculous situation that despite all efforts at conciliation, a matter may be agreed by both parties but the agreement cannot be ratified. However, it can be opposed by the Commonwealth Government on appeal. 
The recent Waterside Workers Federation agreement is another classic example. Do we assume that for peace on the waterfront this agreement which is applicable to waterside workers will remain in that restricted area? I doubt it very much. It is possible that other unions on the waterfront will press for conditions identically in line with those applicable to waterside workers. If there can be agreement between unions and employers why cannot that be ratified without the hammer and sickle being hung over their heads by the Commonwealth Government, on appeal? The Government makes a farce of all semblance of conciliation between organisations. 
I turn to the question of double standards. The honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  rose and made a great play about the public interest. He quoted legal decisions. I do not dispute those decisions. Wages have a decisive impact on the community but the fact which cannot be got over to the Government is that what is wrong at this point of time is that extra weight is being put on one end of the scale and nothing on the other end. If there is a public interest on an increase in wages across the board nationally or by collective bargaining, what standard will the Government fix when prices rise, hire purchase rates rise and land prices rise? All one ever hears from the Government is this double standard. The private sector, in terms of prices and profits, is to be completely uninhibited. It will have complete freedom to contract and no Government controls will be imposed. Everyone read the statement of the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  last December dealing with general insurance provisions. There were 2 important factors in that statement as far as the Commonwealth Government was concerned. There are to be no restrictions on insurance companies in terms of investment - none at all. So, the private sector can have complete freedom of contract, complete freedom of negotiation, complete freedom of fixation of either prices or profits and, in fact, freedom from any restrictions, inhibitions and constrictions. But, certainly, it will not be involved in arbitration. The Government will confine this provision to the workers of Australia. In my view the Government will bind the workers by a section which is inoperative and which will cause untold damage in the field of conciliation and arbitration. In my view it will be completely inoperative. 

 Dr SOLOMON (Denison) 5.36)-  Mr 
Chairman- 
I want to ask the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch),  following the rather erudite and verbose speech by the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)- 
Well, that is what it was. The honourable member for Moreton swallowed Dickens for tea. Let us get down to the stomach of the Bill. I ask the Minister: Is it a fact that the employer has the right under the provisions of this clause of the Bil] to bring on a prosecution before the presidential bench without the presidential bench going into the merits of the case? Is that the position? That is the stomach of this clause. Can I have an acknowledgement from the Minister? Is this the factual position? Let me enlighten the honourable member for Moreton and give him a specific case. It is possibly hypothetical but it certainly could operate in the federal jurisdiction. A foreign owned dredging company in Australia brought out a bucket dredge from Great Britain. How it ever met Board of Trade requirements in the United Kingdom I will never know. A private agreement was struck between the company and the union. It reached the stage where it finished its area of operations and was due to go to a port in New South Wales tor tie up and survey. The men wanted extra money to take the vessel from point A to point B. The company refused point blank to negotiate with the employees concerned and insisted on union representation. The union officials found when they arrived on the ship that it was unseaworthy. In my view, it would never have complied with Commonwealth or State Marine Acts. Let us imagine that the men refused to take the vessel to sea. Am I to understand and assume that under the proposed section an employer could go straight to the presidential bench and ask for a prosecution against the employees, without any consideration of the merits of the facts leading up to the case? Is this the position? 
I am asking the Minister whether it is the case. 
Let me tell the honourable member for Moreton that the result of that case was that the ship went to sea and every man on board bar one lost his life. In my view, if this is what the Act provides, it is highly reprehensible and should not be tolerated. I want an assurance from the Minister that in cases of industrial disputes, if they go to a presidential member no injunction, no order and no prosecution will lie until such time as the factors leading up to the dispute have been thoroughly thrashed out. 
I support the Opposition amendment. Beyond doubt a half baked measure is embodied in this Bill. This is allegedly a sincere attempt to do something about the problem of tobacco use and its effects on the quality of life of the average Australian today. If the Government really intended to reduce the consumption of tobacco, and with it the deaths from lung cancer, it would prohibit all tobacco advertising and promotion by whatever means possible. Some people, as evidenced by the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham),  try to rationalise, justify and excuse the non-banning of tobacco advertising, particularly on television, by stating that where this has been done the death rate from and usage rate of tobacco has not fallen. I do not dispute this at all but the reason for this is that television advertising is only one of the many ways of promoting a product and, as happens in other fields of drug use, where one door is shut another door is opened. The banning of television or radio advertising is followed immediately by increased use, on a tremendous scale, of other advertising media, particularly the printed word in newspapers and magazines. This can be predicted in Australia, particularly since the Commonwealth Government has no power of control over newspaper, magazine or other printed advertising, including outdoor hoardings. So the banning of television advertising of tobacco, while being not even a half measure, represents a compromise with the tobacco industry and an ineffectual sop to the medical profession. 
The Bill before us calls for warning statements - as if people read the warnings or have their behaviour patterns and habits changed by words and information alone. In other fields of drug control we know already that if people do read warning statements which conflict with their desires, emotions and pleasures, they ignore them. How stupid and naive does the Government believe the people, and in particular the medical profession, are to swallow this ineffectual measure the Government now proposes? How foolish is the Government if it believes that this measure will reduce agitation and pressure for something adequate to be done. How foolish we all would be if we thought that the Government's policy is likely to have any effect upon the consumption of drugs by the next generation of young Australians.  1  turn now to some remarks passed by the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  and in the limited time at my disposal I shall comment on what is termed the Government's drug education programme. This explains, in my view, why the Government's 2-year old national drug education programme has been a failure. If honourable members do not believe this I urge them to look at the drug arrest figures and the Customs Department's drug seizure figures for the last 2 years. There has been an average increase of 100 per cent per annum in drug arrests throughout Australia and a recent haul of 300 grammes of smuggled heroin, sufficient for 30,000 doses of heroin if used pure and not unadulterated. The Government's expenditure of $500,000 a year on drug education has failed to contain the abuse of LSD, marihuana, hashish, cocain and heroin because of the counter-influence of the increasing consumption of the social drugs - alcohol and tobacco - and the medical drugs, such as anti-depressants. 
Some time ago the Government through the Commonwealth Department of Health removed restrictions on the prescribing of anti-depressants under the national health service. The result was an increase in the prescribed volume of these drugs of 87 per cent within a few months. What will foe the ultimate effect of this extra consumption on the consumption of LSD and marihuana? It seems ironic that on the one hand the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  is fighting a losing battle against drug smuggling while on the other hand the staff of the Minister for Health unconsiously and indirecly is encouraging the demand for drugs among our youth. It also seems ironic that on the one hand the tobacco industry spends, at a conservative estimate,$11m a year in educating people to take its drug while the Federal 
Government profits from the tobacco trade to the tune of $240m a year and then spends $500,000 a year, which is one-quarter of one per cent of the profits from excise, trying to educate the people of Australia particularly the young people, away from such drugs as LSD, marahuana, hashish and heroin. What a scandal! Have we any assurance that the Government's proposal for anti-tobacco education will be handled more effectively, more honestly, more generously and more efficiently? I seriously doubt it. I regret that on a matter of such importance speakers are obliged to limit their time to 5 minutes. I think it is reprehensible. Far greater time should have been made available to have enabled members to devote more time to this important public matter. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
Clauses 1 to 2 - by leave - taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 3. 
After section 100 of the Broadcasting and Television Act 1942-1971 the following section is inserted: - "100a.- (1.) After a date to be fixed by Proclamation, a licensee shall cause each advertisement for cigarettes or cigarette tobacco broadcast or televised from his station to be followed immediately, as provided by this section, by the following statement: - 
The National Health and Medical Research Council warns that cigarette smoking is dangerous to health.' "(2.) If the advertisement is in a language other than English, the statement shall be made in that other language. "(3.) In the case of a televised advertisement- 
the statement shall be made simultaneously by image and sound; 
the statement by image shall be transmitted for a time not less than the time occupied by the transmission of the associated sound; 
the statement by image - 
shall be in bold face capitals; 
shall be in letters the height of each of which is not less than one-twentieth of the height of the screen of a television receiver; 
shall be so arranged and transmitted as to be readily legible, under normal conditions of viewing, when shown on the screen of a television receiver; and 
shall be so arranged as to occupy the centra] area of the transmitted picture; and 
no image other than the statement shall be transmitted while the statement is being transmitted. (4.) In the case of a statement by sound, whether transmitted from a broadcasting station or a television station - 
the statement shall be spoken and the time occupied by its transmission shall not be less than five seconds; 
the statement shall be so transmitted that the level of sound is not less than the usual level of sound used by the station for the transmission of speech; 
no sound other than that of the statement shall be transmitted while the statement is being transmitted; 
the statement shall be made without comment or qualification; 
the statement shall be clearly enunciated; and 
the statement shall not be so spoken as to convey any element of humour, ridicule, irony or the like. "(5.) The statement shall not be spoken or shown in such a way that it is distorted, cither orally or visually.". 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
In relation to legislation covering general (non-life) insurance, did he state on 9th March 1972 (Hansard, page 764) that policy decisions had been taken, that it was a matter of translating them into written words of a Bill and that it was hoped to have draft legislation before too many weeks had passed. 
If so, will he advise whether it is intended to introduce the legislation into the House during the present period of sittings. 
I want to take up the cudgels on behalf of the thousands of full-time non-official postmasters. Firstly, I think that the current structure of salaries and conditions of employment for these officers is a public scandal, grossly inequitable and archaic. The conditions within the current determination are a legacy from the old original 1942 regulation which was made during the Second World War. At the outset let me say that what is crucial is a complete restructuring of the method and the basis upon which these officers' salaries are determined. The wage differential between a NOPM on full-time service and a grade 1 official postmaster is currently $372. The NOPM receives $3,720 and OPs receive $4,092. 
As an example of the assumptions to be made at this stage, if one accepts that a grade 1 official postmaster is the appropriate level, why is there a differential between an NOPM and an OP? Assuming the levels are comparable, the reason is presumably that the NOPM does not require the qualifications - academic or medical - which are required of a permanent official. This cannot be acceptable. Such an argument defies logic in marginal fixation. These requirements relate to the question of fitness to be a permanent officer and are basic to entry into the Public Service. At a base level these matters should not influence salary fixation. If one accepts the proposition that, generally speaking, an OP and an NOPM perform the same duties with the same efficiency, the backgrounds of the respective groups are irrelevant for wage fixation purposes. Judge Williams in South Australia had this to say in dealing with this question: 
The employers argued that if I did award 28 per cent increase to the margin of any employees covered by this classification I should limit it to employees who had previously been fitters and allow only 20 per cent increase to those who had some different basis of training, e.g. as trainees. 
To award different rates of pay to two different sets of employees doing similar work merely because they had different backgrounds of training would, in my opinion, be manifestly unfair and I refuse to adopt this course. 
I challenge the Minister to refute this industrial dictum. The next step is to establish that the 100,000 work units per year, as contained in the NOP determination, is acceptable as the same quantum of work performed by the equivalent OPs. The equation of work-time relationship of the two is not just assumed. It is accepted that 125,240 units represent a 60-minute hour, a 40-hour week and a 52-week work year. To equate the two classifications the 125,240 units must be  reduced  to allow for the working year enjoyed by OPs. As an illustration let me suggest that if we multiply 60 minutes by 37 hours and then by 46 weeks, and take into account such matters as actual weekly working hours, annual and sick leave, public holidays, etc., the result is 102,120 minutes annually, which falls within the base range contained in the Public Service determination. The base grade full time service NOP accruing 102,000 work units gives the same work value in the same hours as the OP. Why the discrimination of salary. Why cannot the NOP claim salary parity? 
I suspect that the existing work unit assessments are not wholly acceptable and that the assessments should be dealt with as separate issues. I suggest that the NOP should be related to the OP Grade 1 with a minimum salary of $4,092 in lieu of the existing relationship with $3,720. If the 2 groups are exactly equated at base, it follows that they must be equated with increments, overtime, leisure etc. If one assumes in general terms that a 100,000 unit NOP is now receiving the equivalent minimum salary for the OP, it seems clear that the Association covering NOPMs cannot simultaneously claim increments and salary differentials in 10,000 work unit steps. Surely it is logical that the NOP should receive paid assistance on the basis of a full time employee for each 100,000 work units and part time assistance on a pro rata basis. If one utilises this basis and takes it through the scale there is no reason why we cannot formulate a positive method of fixation up to the equivalent of grade 3 in the Public Service. Taking the question of overtime for NOPMs, on the facts as I see them the NOPMs appear to enjoy a very unique privilege in that if they work overtime they receive a lower rate per unit than they receive for ordinary work. This is preposterous. The NOPM determination should be brought into line with normal industrial standards and practices to provide for overtime with double rate provisions. Also a minimum payment of 100 units at the prevailing rate should be received for work at these times. Likewise the NOPMs are entitled, in my view, to claim annual leave, sick leave, public holidays and compassionate leave without restrictions for all members as applicable to ordinary public servants. 
As to the question of rates of pay and conditions affecting full-time NOPMs. and so far as the scale of work units for NOPMs is concerned, will the Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme)  tell the House why a document dealing with these matters is labelled 'Confidential'? Why can it not be tabled in the House? Why are employees subject to the determination and the salary it imposes not entitled to know precisely its details and how it is assessed? Is it a fact that the document sets out clearly the unit-earning value of every transaction performed in the non-official post offices and that work that is done this financial year forms the basis of calculating what the NOPM will be next financial year? Is it a fact that in the United Kingdom all suboffice postmasters are issued with a handbook to give a true and accurate guide to their unit earnings? Surely it is an indisputable fact that every employee is entitled to know what financial reward he will receive for his labour. Will the Minister give consideration to having the divisor used in the formula cited in the NOPM award for calculating such officers' personal allowances varied to afford equity and some semblance of justice? Is it a fact that the present formula covering work and conditions of OP employees states: 
When an office earns 124,000 units NOP the Postmaster shall be entitled to a full-time male assistant as a second-in-charge. 
Is it a fact that this clause puts the work capacity of the OP and the NOPM on exactly the same basis? Why, therefore, has the NOPM to earn 200,000 units before he is entitled to assistance on a fulltime basis? These questions, I believe, demand a logical and constructive answer, if the Minister has one.  I  ask the leave of the House to incorporate in Hansard a schedule which sets out the discrimination at the 2 levels and shows the 1971-72 salary rates for NOPMs and assistants and the differential rates set in 1942. 

<graphic href="078131197205246_107_1.jpg"></graphic>

Question resolved in the affirmative. 
House adjourned at 1 a.m. (Thursday) 
I preface my question to the Prime Minister by referring to a recent statement by John Irwin, the United States Under-Secretary for State, who said: 
The urgency of the developing world energy crisis surely dictates that the time for our governments to take action is now. 
I ask: Is is a fact that the recent rash of takeovers offers involving the Ansett, Travelodge, Valentine, and Kiwi organisations total a mere SI 90m? In contrast this nation's most valuable asset is its vast, nonrenewable fuel resources of natural gas and uranium which are conservatively valued at $ 19,000m. Of these 2 areas on the national priority list- 
 The Budget is an instrument of Government policy. It is also an inventory by which people can measure achievements after 23 years of Tory Government. One test which every thoughtful Australian must apply is simply: What proportion of this nation's real wealth do we own and control? The litany of 'sell-out' is scandalous. Foreign control is exercised over SO million acres of our rural land; 88.3 per cent of our motor vehicle construction and assembly plants; 78 per cent of our industrial and heavy chemical industry; 76.3 per cent of our pharmaceutical and toiletry preparations; 83.6 per cent of our non-ferrous metals; 81.6 per cent of our oils and minerals; 59 per cent of our mining sector; and 69 per cent of our metal mining. Is this a record of achievement or failure? On these figures the past decade is that period in which the greatest sell-out of this nation's real wealth has occurred. 
This nation's continued growth, security and prosperity in no small measure will be dependent upon our capacity to retain control and ownership of our land and our vast, rich non-renewable resources, particularly those fuels on which we and every other country rely to meet energy needs. In terms of energy, the progress of this country will be in direct proportion to its capacity to supply or meet the demand for energy. The wealth created by or extracted from our fuel and energy resources in turn will be in direct proportion to this Government's capacity to retain ownership and control of them. 
Foreign control of our vast natural gas deposits is an established fact. If this Government's policies continue, uranium deposits in the Northern Territory will share the same fate. To measure this Government's concern and policies on national development, the only reference that appears in the Budget is the allocation of a miserable $15m to increase the Australian Industry Development Corporation's allocation to $50m. It is a national scandal. The Opposition has repeatedly called for a national fuel and energy policy. On 1st August 1 sent a telegram to the  chairman  of the Senate Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control requesting an immediate investigation of the alienation and foreign control of our vast and rich uranium deposits. I have not received even the courtesy of an acknowledgment of that telegram. Last week I asked the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  to set up a joint parliamentary committee of inquiry for the same purpose. Both requests have been flatly rejected. 
This Government has no intention whatsoever of formulating a balanced evaluation of our mineral or fuel resources. Just how critical is the need for such an inquiry? Estimated Australian and world demands currently, and projected demands, show that there are ominous signs already of a world fuel crisis. Throughout the leading petroleum consuming countries consumption of energy has been growing at from 3 to 5 times the rate of population increase. World production has doubled in each of the past 2 decades to 1.620 million barrels per annum in 1971. If it only doubles in each of the next 2 decades it will reach 7,200 million barrels by 1991. Dependency on one source, the Middle East, is regarded, particularly by Japan and the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, as an uncomfortable situation which by 1980 will be extremely critical. The simple fact is that the governments of those countries which operate through the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries may be unwilling, for reasons of conservation or whatever, to supply the enormous new quantities of oil which will be needed. 
Currently Libya has cut production drastically, while Kuwait and Venezuela have banned further increases in off-take. On these facts there is a real possibility of a major free world shortfall of oil by 1980, estimated at 20 million barrels a day. Japan currently relies upon Middle East sources for 90 per cent of its crude oil. In terms of gas, the Japanese Energy Council estimates that liquefied natural gas imports will rise from the current level of around 340,000 million cubic feet a day to 2.7 billion cubic feet per day in 1985. Our prospects for both uranium and liquefied natural gas exports are excellent. Already Australia has entered into contracts to export uranium and discussions have taken place in relation to the export of liquefied natural gas. In terms of fuel resources, Japan is almost totally reliant on imports. 
By 1980 one third of the world's raw material trade will be influenced by Japan. In the same year, according to  Dr Okita's  the director of the Japanese Economic Research Centre, estimates, 50 per cent of the world's iron ore trade and 20 per cent of the international trade in petroleum, will be directed towards Japan. He predicts that by 1980 Japanese foreign investment will be around $US27,000m and half of that will be directed towards procuring raw materials. Some Japanese businessmen fear a scramble by the developed countries to obtain resources and there is certainly concern about Japan encountering the United States as a competitor for energy resources in the latter part of this century. 
What is the position of the United States in terms of oil and gas? Twice in the past 4 months  President  Nixon has had to raise the permitted quota of crude oil imports into the eastern United States because of inadequate home production. As their economy recovers the Americans have woken up to find themselves rushing headlong into an energy crisis which a few years ago would have been unthinkable. Let me turn to a quote from that socially radical bank - the Chase Manhattan Bank. The energy economics report of that bank stated: 
The United States is not going to be able to afford to fill its energy gap requirements between now and 1985 completely by imports. It is now obvious that the United States is faced with a very serious situation in respect of energy supply. And unless positive corrective actions are taken immediately the problem will become critical. 
Oil and natural gas together supplies as much as three quarters of the United States energy requirements for all purposes. Domestic production is not sufficient to meet current needs. The deficit is certain to become progressively worse. Gas - self sufficiency up to 198S is estimated to be not much over SO per cent. Unless economic circumstances improve to stimulate a much more expanded search for new reserves of domestic natural gas, more than 25 per cent of the market must go unsatisfied. 
If the United States is forced to import amounts of oil and gas necessary to meet its full requirements, the necessary outflow by 1985 is likely to be in excess of $30 billion a year, compared with about $4 billion at the present time. 
In no sense would it be realistic to expect that the outflow of dollars would be offset by a corresponding inflow. The annual balance of payments deficit alone could be as much as $25 billion; a deficit the nation could not tolerate. 
To put it more bluntly the United States faces currently imports of 23 per cent. By 1982 it will be forced to import SO per cent and by 1992 75 per cent. If we take the figures of $US4 per barrel and $US6 per barrel, by 1982 and 1992 the United States will be up for a cost burden per annum of SUS16 billion and $US48 billion respectively. In effect, the United States faces a crisis. Its demand in this area accounts for 80 per cent of the total free world demand. 
Let me turn to Western Europe. Western Europe's consumption of 12 million barrels per day is expected to double by 1980. With luck the North Sea fields may produce 3 million barrels per day. European members of the OECD will have to import over 20 million barrels per day - roughly double the current import level. The OECD may be confronted with a requirement of the order of 26 million barrels per day by the end of the decade. This means the increase is almost equal to the combined present consumption of the United States and of European members of the OECD. 
I now turn to gas. Natural gas is likely to double its share of the European energy market to around 15 per cent by 1980. Despite large increases in North Sea production, it appears likely that European natural gas imports from the Soviet Union and North Africa will increase and Shell T. and T. Co. estimates that by 1976 imports from these 2 areas will have risen to 2.4 billion cubic feet per day. 
I now refer to nuclear power and uranium. As an alternative fuel source it has been estimated that by the year 2000 63 per cent of the world's electrical power will come from nuclear energy. Based on current United States estimates it will not be in a position to export enriched uranium beyond 1977. Japan, for energy purposes, is the third major world power in the utilisation of nuclear energy, and, unlike this Government, is fully conscious of the pending world fuel crisis and is rapidly stockpiling its imports. One authoritative statement which should force home to this Government the urgency of the situation is the recent statement made to the members of the OECD by  Mr John  Irwin, United States Under-Secretary for State who said: 
. the urgency of the developing world energy crisis surely dictates that the time for our Government to take action is now. 
This statement is based, I suggest, on 3 critical factors. First there is the harsh reality insofar as oil and natural gas is concerned because both have a limited life. If we take the static and expotential index in terms of oil and natural gas, in the case of oil it is 31 years and 20 years and in the case of gas it is 38 and 22 years respectively. Secondly, there must be a rational utilisation of energy resources. 
Thirdly, if developed countries fail to respond, competition is inevitable - the backlash could be conflict. The past century had its glut of trade wars; the end of this century we may see national conflicts for resources. Our resources and their value must be measured in this context. It is surely abundantly obvious that as supply decreases, demand must increase and it follows our fuel resources will increase in value in direct proportion to the world demand. To what extent has this Government permitted the alienation and control by overseas corporations of our fuel resources? 
Let us have a look at the position which currently faces Australia in terms of oil. On present known reserves by the years 1983-84 we will be producing 50 million barrels per annum. We will consume some 410 million barrels per annum. In effect, we will have but one-eighth of our own requirements by way of known reserves. Based on the world parity price of $2.60 per barrel, at 350 million barrels (C.I.F.) would mean an annual cost burden to this country of $l,500m. 
Let me turn to the north west shelf and to the question of alienation. The north west shelf encompasses an area of some 140,000 square miles; an area larger than the British Isles, or the British sector of the North Sea, or the entire concessions in the Gulf of Mexico. It is, without doubt, one of the largest and richest hydrocarbon provinces in the world. Who owns and controls it? It reads like a 'Who's Who' in the multi-national corporation manual. They include Burmah Oil of London, B.P., Shell, Californian and Asiatic. We did have up until only 18 months ago 100 per cent control. We have 13 per cent today under this Government. Recently, 4 farm-outs involving almost 21 000 square miles were carved up by 9 companies, 8 of which were overseas companies. There is a set of farm-out leases due to come out in 1974 and I will take an even bet that if this Government is in office it will likewise go to overseas corporations. Estimated natural gas deposits are 45 trillion cubic feet - and could be as high as 100 trillion cubic feet. In addition, there are large deposits of condensate which could be valued at $US3 per barrel. 
Now let me put the 45 trillion in perspective. It is 5 times the stated reserves in the Gippsland off-shore fields and 5 times the estimated reserves of central Australia. This Government and the companies have persistently refused to in fact divulge what are the volume of the reserves. One is forced back on to 'guesstimates'. If one accepts 45 trillion cubic feet and calculations on the basis of a projection of 20 years, the figures are staggering. If one uses figures out of the Kit Kat Aitken report in London and if one takes 80c which is paid to Shell-BP from Brunei to Japan the estimate by the Gas Producers Association of the United States fluctuates on a price level between 80c, $1 and $1.25. On the basis of 1.75 trillion cubic feet a year, which is equal to nearly 5 billion cubic feet a day, and on 30c a thousand cubic feet, revenue is worth $550m per annum. But if calculated at a selling price of $1 per 1,000 cubic feet the revenue return is $1,750,000,000. This is not profit. One can only estimate that. However, last year's selling price was quoted about 60c, profit estimated at about 10c at 1,000 cubic feet; if one puts profit at 40c, on this basis annual profit would be $733m. However, it is interesting to note that at a price of $1, the estimated 45 trillion cubic feet would have an all-up value of $45 billion and at $1.25 per 1,000 cubic feet it would have an all up value ot $56.25 billion. 
If profit continued at 40c a thousand cubic feet, the total profit for the life of the reserves would be $18 billion. After deducting royalties, taxes and all expenses, that amount is reduced by 50 per cent to $9 billion. The overseas multinational corporations would carve it up and could take out of this country $6.75 billion. If one adds to this amount the value of the condensate, a further $1.7m billion is involved. 
The Amadeus Basin is estimated to have natural gas deposits of 8 trillion cubic feet and is valued at $50m. I have seen Press reports in which United States consultants claim that the reserves could prove to have up to 50 trillion cubic feet. This area is 90 per cent overseas controlled and 10 per cent Australian controlled. As I understand it, the agreement which has been signed between Magellan Petroleum Corporation 
United States and the Pacific Light Company on the western seaboard of the United States provides a contract for the export of 600 million cubic feet a day. To increase the density of foreign control in this area, the Pacific Light Company has agreed to plough in capital to prove up the reserves, to supply the plant and to provide the pipeline. Before this agreement is ratified, I believe that the documents should be tabled in this Parliament to allow the matter to be considered and evaluated. 

 Sir Phillip Baxter is on record as saying that we have about 200,000 short tons of uranium. If one uses the recent selling price for uranium of $6.57 per lb, those reserves are valued at nearly $2,600m. This country's fuel resources are being plundered and raped in the worst economic sense. Australia should have foreign investment but not to the extent that it results in foreign ownership and control. Lest it be thought that these criticisms of the Government's policy are simply party politics, I shall quote from an authoritative paper published by the Economic Affairs Bureau of the Japanese Ministry of Foreign Affairs which was prepared by Professor Hirono of Seikei University, after an exhaustive survey of Australian mineral resources policy, or rather, the lack of it. 
The report stated bluntly that the most important problem in connection with the mineral resources policy of the Australian Government is, as repeatedly said, that an inclusive and systematic resources policy has not yet been established. It went on to say: 
It is necessary for the Australian Government to decide its own policy for the mineral resources based on the long-term benefits for Australia, and for this special attention should be paid to changes in the international relation of supply and demand for mineral resources, to future changes in the competitive power of Australian mineral resources, to relations between other countries, to changes in the relative position and standing of Australia in the world, to changes in the industrial structure within Australia, to the development of technological reform, to changes in the degree of national interest in the development of technological reform, and to the promotion of living and education standards. 
How farcical it is to find that a Japanese Professor has a better grasp of Australia's needs for a national resources policy than has this Government after 23 years. 
In the national interest, 3 major decisions must be taken now. Firstly, positive legislation is needed to ensure maximum Australian equity, participation and control of these national assets; secondly, we must tap the vast reservoir of the Australian capital market; and, thirdly - I no longer request this but demand it on behalf of the people who have any concern for the assets of this country and our national heritage - we must set up immediately a national inquiry to establish concrete policies and guidelines which will co-ordinate, identify, and quantify, and plan the most economic and efficient use of these vast resources of fuel and energy, based not on this Government's ad hoc, puerile decisions which are reached on a crisis to crisis basis, but on what this nation's supply and demand requirements will be not only in the next decade, but also - this is equally important - for the next half century. After 23 years of this Government's stewardship, our nation's heritage has been sold out for a mess of pottage. For this reason alone I condemn this Government and I condemn this Budget. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Defence. Are volunteers who served in Vietnam denied the benefits of the retraining scheme for national servicemen who served in Vietnam? Are both national servicemen and volunteers excluded from the benefits of the war service land settlement scheme? If so, will the Minister take immediate steps to have these ridiculous anomalies rectified? 
I rise to support the Opposition's amendment. I will confine my remarks to what, in my mind, obviously are the archaic and outmoded policies of this Government insofar as exservicemen are concerned. I was interested in a remark made by the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  who raised the question of the need for the Government to have a credit incentive scheme for younger people. I assume that he means younger ex-servicemen. If he means the veterans of Korea, Malaya and Vietnam, then I am very much afraid that whilst he supports that proposition the Government he supports certainly does not. 
It is pretty obvious that the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten)  does not. It is remarkable that it took 3 Ministers to give a competent reply to 2 simple, reasonable questions which I directed to the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  last Thursday. The first question I asked the Minister was: 
Are  volunteers  who served in Vietnam denied the benefits of the retraining scheme for national servicemen who served in Vietnam? 
The second question was: 
Are both national servicemen and volunteers excluded from the benefits of the war service land settlement scheme? 
Initially the question was farmed out to the Minister for Repatriation who had some difficulty in answering it. Subsequently he was obliged to come into the House in the afternoon and submit an explanatory statement. The facts stated in the question that I asked are correct. At the same time the question fell to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  to answer. I shall read part of the 
Minister's answer to the House. I hope that I will not be taking it out of context in doing so. I was obliged to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  who directed a subsequent question to the Minister for Primary Industry in the following terms: 
I ask the Minister for Primary Industry a question that is supplementary to that asked by the honourable member for Hawker. Are national servicemen and members of the volunteer forces who served in Vietnam eligible for war service land settlement re-establishment? If they are not eligible, will the Minister confirm that ex-servicemen of the First World War, the Second World War and Korea were given this advantage? If those who served in Vietnam are not entitled to the same consideration and assistance in this respect will the Minister say why the Government has adopted a discriminatory practice against those who served in Vietnam compared with those who served in other wars in which Australia was involved? 
The first part of the Minister's answer is irrelevant to this matter, but in his answer the Minister went on to say: 
It is true that it was felt that in the case of Vietnam servicemen, whether members of the Regular Army or national servicemen, to provide the benefits under the war service land settlement scheme would not necessarily give them the opportunities that most of them would like to have if they were to go on the land. Accordingly, what the Government has done is provide for national servicemen funds which can bc allocated to them to enable them to set up in a particular business.  I  cannot recall the exact sum, but my recollection is that there has been a greater sum of money provided for national servicemen engaged in primary production than for those going into other businesses. The range of benefits available to national servicemen is not entirely within my responsibility, although the part relating to the war service land settlement scheme is. It is true that there is no facility available under the war service land settlement scheme for national servicemen, but it is not true that there are no funds available for those who are going into some type of agricultural venture. 
It is obvious that the Government's current policies which are outmoded and archaic in this context could affect tens of thousands of Australians who have served this country since 1945. Some 50,000 servicemen were involved in the Vietnam conflict alone and, according to the Government, they do not rate any concessions at all under this scheme. A large proportion of those servicemen were forced to serve in Vietnam; they went there not by choice but by an act of this Government. I think it is an indictment of the Government that it took 3 Ministers to make somewhere near a responsible and competent reply to my questions. 
What is the factual position in relation to retraining? Perhaps the Minister could have made some observation on this point. Regular servicemen are entitled to 3 months leave at the end of their service on full-time engagement, but they are not entitled to any agricultural loan whatsoever. Vet national servicemen are entitled to a training period of up to 2 years on a parttime basis or 1 year on a full-time basis. A national serviceman further is entitled to a re-establishment loan. I ask the Minister: Why is there this distinction? Was there any distinction between ex-servicemen from the First World War and the Second World War, whether in fact they were regulars or were called up? Is there any distinction between the man who fought in Vietnam and the man who fought in the Second World War? If not, why the distinction on this occasion? What is the factual position? Who, in fact, is eligible to participate in the war service land settlement scheme? Perhaps we can have a look at the facts. 
Those that were eligible have a right to apply. On this occasion the Government has not made that concession available. So let us get our facts correct. The war service land settlement scheme no longer provides funds to enable war veterans to take up agricultural holdings. The scheme, and any new grants made under it, applies only to those veterans who were eligible for assistance under it prior to I960. 
That is the point I am coming to. Under the war service land settlement scheme introduced after the 1939-45 war, the Commonwealth Government provided moneys to the States for land settlement of returned servicemen. Since 1960 the scheme has continued mainly as a credit arrangement for development, working expenses and purchases of stock and plant and for developments - for example, irrigation - in particular war service land settlement areas. Redemption payments in 1963-64 have been returned to Consolidated Revenue and are not available for reinvestment in the scheme. 
In effect, there are no Commonwealth funds available under this scheme to assist returned regular soldiers who wish to take up agricultural occupations - none at all. National servicemen, whether or not they are veterans of a foreign war, are eligible for assistance under the Defence (Re.establishment Act 1965-68. I ask the Minister: Why? I would like an answer at the conclusion of my speech. Under the terms of the Act, a national serviceman may apply for an agricultural loan to a maximum of $6,000. That is the only provision in the Act under which he can apply for a loan of $6,000. For professions other than in agriculture there is a limit of $3,000. Interest is payable on these loans at the rate of 4.5 per cent. By 31st August this year 334 loans under the scheme had been approved to former national servicemen. The total amount paid was almost $2m. None of this, of course, was paid to regular servicemen. 
To qualify something that was said by the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd),  let me give a classic example of where these provisions should apply. I refer to regular servicemen who would like to apply for blocks in Cooltong, which is not far away from Renmark in South Australia. A constituent of mine who went along to the Government department to apply for a block under the war service land settlement scheme was told that he was not eligible. As I understand it, in the early 1950s some 50 ex-servicemen from World War II started the Cooltong settlement. I am conversant with this scheme having covered the channel from Waikerie to Jervois in South Australia. It was started with the assistance of the Commonwealth Government under the war service land settlement scheme, and the South Australian Department of Lands acts in effect as agent for the Commonwealth. The blocks were established with the aid of long term loans over some 45 years with interest payable at the rate of 3 J per cent. 
Many settlers still have outstanding mortgages as high as S20,000. In the main, if one of the blocks is sold the outstanding mortgage must be paid out. But where block values can be $40,000, or even more, a settler can often be forced to stay on his block because it is difficult for a potential buyer to find such a large mortgage on purchase. If younger exservicemen, particularly those from Vietnam, were able to establish eligibility to take over existing mortgages many more of the original settlers would be able to sell their blocks. This would not involve the Commonwealth in the outlay of extra finance and would result in the injection of younger men with younger ideas into the industry which could well profit from the infusion. If a settler walks off his block, other settlers in the area or their immediate families are given first choice of purchase by paying 15 per cent deposit and taking over the existing mortgage. If this option is not taken up such a holding is then . sold at auction. Terms can be arranged on 30 per cent deposit with the remainder over 7 or 8 years. 
But what is the current position? These blocks are being bought by syndicates - Wall Street farmers, Brougham Place farmers and North Terrace farmers. This is what is currently happening in this area, and because of the Government's lack of policy, ex-servicemen, particularly regular, servicemen, are denied the opportunity to take up holdings and become part of the settlement area. The second point that arises is that the syndicates inflate the prices of the blocks, and individuals often are not able to compete or are not in a position to afford the capital expenditure necessary to make the holding a viable economic proposition. If post-1945 exservicemen were able with priority to establish eligibility to take over existing mortgages, current settlers, most of whom are in their 50s and many of whom do not have families interested in taking over the blocks, could sell to the younger men who are perhaps fitter and more able to keep this part of the fruit industry alive and progressive in the increasingly competitive atmosphere of today. 
The point I now wish to raise, to confirm the Minister's thinking on this matter, relates to a publication of the Department of Labour and National Service entitled 'Re-establishment Benefits for 
National Servicemen'. Pages  13  and  14  deal with eligibility ratings and re-establishment loans. It reads: 
A re-establishment loan may be made to a national serviceman where this is necessary to enable him to re-establish himself in a business, profession or occupation, including farming, in which he was engaged on his own account, as an active member of a partnership, as a share farmer or as a contract worker prior to call-up, or was prevented from so engaging because of call-up, or in any case where the administering authority, the Repatriation Department for business loans, and the Department of Primary Industry for agricultural loans considers it desirable in the circumstances of the case to grant a loan. A loan may be granted to a national serviceman who is in need of financial assistance: 
To purchase or lease any land, premises or business. 
To improve land. 
To purchase or hire tools of trade, stock, plant. equipment or livestock. 
To reduce a debt on property to be used in business. 
To complete terms of a hire-purchase agreement in respect of property to be used in business. 
To pay any subscription or fee to qualify for engagement or resumption in an occupation, business or practice. 
Otherwise to establish or re-establish himself in civil life by engaging in or resuming a business, occupation or practice. 
Loans will be available up to a maximum amount of $3,000 except for agricultural purposes, where the limit will be $6,000. The rate of interest on loans is currently 4 per cent, the first $100 being interest-free. Adequate security or guarantees for a loan will he required. 
I will not read it all but I want to make one last quotation from the document. It says: 
A national serviceman who, while performing national service, enlists in the Regular Forces is not eligible for a re-establishment loan. 
How can the Minister or his Government possibly justify such discrimination? Not only is there a distinction between a national serviceman and a regular serviceman but there is also a provision which totally and utterly debars a national serviceman from this concession the moment he decides to become a regular serviceman. I ask the Minister at this late hour whether his Government will immediately take steps to remove this ridiculous anomaly or give an explanation as to how it is justified. 

 Mr LLOYD (Murray) - I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I address my question to the Minister for National Development. Has the Government decided to approve or prohibit exports of natural gas from the Palm Valley field in the Northern Territory? Is it a fact that the Australian equity holding in that field is only 20 per cent? Is it a further fact that if the all-clear is given by this Government to export natural gas from Palm Valley it will inevitably lead to an even greater density of overseas control of our resources? Will the Minister undertake to table all relevant documents in the House before any final decision is made in this matter? 
I support the motion before the House. 
I seek leave to make a very short statement following what was said by my colleague, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean). 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER  (Mr  Scholes)Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
Basically, my concern is not whether we will be given sufficient time to consider the Bill, important as that is. What I am concerned about is whether the But will in fact become law. It has been well over 2 years since I first raised this matter in the House and I have persisted with it ever since. I have asked the Government repeatedly to exercise its constitutional power to give policy holders and insurers the protection and stability which the industry deserves. 
The previous Prime Minister, as early as September of 1970, is on record as saying: 
The Government regards the subject as one of urgency and will press ahead with all possible speed. I should perhaps say, however, that the provision of a comprehensive legislative scheme will be a large and complex operation and I am unable at this stage to indicate a likely timetable for the introduction of the legislation. 
A total of 14 companies has in fact gone into liquidation and a figure of over $9m has been involved. What concerns me is that the policy holders are the people who suffer most tragically in this area because ot the failure of the Government to act. 1 know, the Government knows and the Treasury officials know that almost 18 months ago a working paper from the Australian Industry Association was given to the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  and that beyond any question that working paper set out fully the regulations that the industry itself wanted. On top of that we were given an assurance that assistance would be provided to help draft the legislation. A parliamentary counsel - a woman - skilled in company law legislation was brought to the Federal Parliament from Victoria to help speed up the legislation.. I can vividly recall that some months ago the Treasurer, speaking to me in answer to a question, said that the Office of Parliamentary Counsel was working overtime to get this Bill before the House. 
 The Minister has acknowledged that this is correct. However, the same day in another place the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Greenwood),  who has the responsibility for the Office of Parliamentary Counsel, said that he had no knowledge of the matter. 
We have the position where governments, industry and the public do not have any objection to this class of Bill. As 1 understand it every State government, with the possible exception of Queensland, wants the Bill to be put on the statute book. Industry wants it. Stock exchanges want it for the purpose of regulation rather than registration of stockbrokers. It seems to me deplorable that only a week ago a statement should have had to be made by a Minister of the New South Wales Government that he would have to bring up to date the Consumer Protection Act in New South Wales if this Government fails to act. This Government stands condemned. It has had over 2 years to bring this legislation into the House and to give the ordinary people, the policy holders, the protection they deserve. In my view there is no excuse for the Government whatsoever. 
What 1 want as an ordinary back bencher is an unequivocal undertaking from the Minister for Supply  (Mr Garland)  that this Bill will in fact have the force of law and not be glossed over as a piece of Press publicity which will come out tomorrow morning. To be more factual, what worries me above all is whether this is the ghost of Gorton getting the rip of this Government. This legislation is the last promise he ever made as Prime Minister; it is one of the promises that this Government somewhere along the line committed itself to implement. I condemn the Government for its prevarication, its procrastination and the very fact that it has no intention, as I understand it, of making this Bill law. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
In view of the proposed Commonwealth legislation to control non-life insurance, has his attention been drawn to the recent submission by representatives of Austraiian non-life insurance companies to the Senate Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control. 
If so, does the submission reveal that between 50 and 70 per cent of this industry is overseas controlled, and was the Commonwealth Government requested to take action to protect the interests of Australian companies. 
Has he taken steps to have included in the proposed legislation appropriate provisions to ensure maximum equity, participation and control of this industry by Australian companies; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Has the Representative in Sydney of the British Aircraft Corporation,  Mr Hennifer-Heaton,  provided figures on Concorde operations which show that the aircraft can be economically operated by Qantas only by charging more than existing first class fares. 
If so, (a) has Qantas kept the Government informed of this information; and (b) as a large amount of public money will be needed to finance the purchase of the Concorde, will the Minister table in the House this economic analysis. 
In dealing with the estimates for the Department of National Development we are dealing with governmental policy as far as the mineral industry is concerned. Equally important, we are dealing with the Government's attitude and policies in relation to overseas ownership, investment and control. I take this opportunity to draw the attention of the Minister for National Development  (Sir Reginald Swartz)  to his Government's failure to face up to the adverse effects which foreign companies can exert upon healthy Australian subsidiaries. To be specific, the most blatant example is the recent purchase of the Avonmouth Smelter, Bristol, United Kingdom, by Conzinc Riotinto of Aust. Ltd, or more specifically Australian Mining and Smelting, United Kingdom, from Rio Tinto-Zinc Corporation Ltd which was a deal to rid RTZ of a smelter which has been losing money consistently and which has a very doubtful future resulting from pollution and a lack of profitability. If after 12 months under the control of the subsidiary of CRA it is not put on a profitable basis and the plant is closed down - I do not suggest it will close down but assume that it may close down - the holder of the redeemable preference shares, that is, RTZ, has first claim on the assets which total $15.2m. lt is obvious that insofar as RTZ is concerned it cannot lose but CRA can. It is equally obvious that it must accept all actual operating losses. 
The basic facts are set out in the 'Nation Review' issue of August this year. The article in it states: 
RTZ's  biggest troubles lie in a lead-zinc smelter at  Avonmouth,  near Bristol, United Kingdom. The smelter's lead discharges into the environment and the effects on the staff working in it blew into an international scandal late last year. The resulting official inquiry under  Sir Brian  Windeyer, the vice-chancellor of London University, was reported late last month. But in October 1971, before the scandal had blown, RTZ and 2 of its part Australian-owned and Australian resident subsidiaries . . had entered upon a tentative deal whereby the down-under companies would take over Avonmouth  through a jointly owned company. . . . 
It goes on to state: 
What  of  the Avonmouth deal? Originally costing RTZ a capital outlay  of 15  million pounds sterling  ($36m  at the exchange rate ... in May  1968),  the English company is reported to have spent another  $20m  since then in attempted improvements and operating losses.  Sir Valston  Duncan referred to it as the cross we have to bear, in April  1971.  The offer from the Australian companies was said to include up to  $6m  in cash and up to  $12m  in preference shares in a  company  whose sole asset was  to  be the smelter. Surely this deal implies that CRA is being asked to take all the risks and accept all the losses which it seems are inevitable from the future operations of the Avonmouth smelter whilst RTZ is freed from a very costly burden which has dragged down the value of its shares. It might be good company financial policy but the politics of it for this country demand investigation. Since production at the RTZ plant and the Imperial Smelting Furnace began it has been plagued with problems, both financial and pollution. Several years of substantial losses have been incurred in operating  ISF and the production process has been the subject of searching inquiry. What is abundantly obvious in the previous situation is that RTZ was forced to carry the burden resulting from the losses of ISF. But what ought to be brought out into the open is that at the very same time RTZ needed finance to invest in other ventures, principally in South West Africa. To dilute the profitability problem of Avonmouth RTZ has now sold, to its Australian subsidiary, CRA, a company in which there is substantial Australian equity but not sufficient for any real Australian control. The disposal of Avonmouth to CRA has solved  3  basic problems for RTZ: Firstly, it has provided the additional capital required for the development of the uranium deposits in South West Africa; secondly, it has ensured a flow of funds from Australia without incurring withholding tax; and, thirdly, it has retained ownership of the smelter. In the terms announced, AMSE can withdraw if it finds that the smelter cannot operate profitably at the end of 12 months. But is that prospect likely? 1 doubt it. 
The real danger to Australia in the future lies in what this deal may lead to without some very tight controls being exercised on the export of untreated Australian lead and zinc ores and concentrates. 
The future of the Cockle Creek and Port Pirie smelters are very much in the limelight, as their future can be decided in much the same way as Avonmouth's by the board of RTZ in London, particularly in the absence of national policy restraints. The closing of Avonmouth actually would bring to an end an era of Australia-United Kingdom participation in lead zinc smelting that has been based on a government to government agreement which was made in about 1918. Of course, conditions have changed radically since then, but government agreements are still necessary to protect our mineral resources and the processing of same as much as possible in Australia and new agreements need to be made now. 
One is bound to ask: Has the sale of the Avonmouth smelter to CRA by RTZ the approval and support of the Commonwealth Government, knowing that its future is extremely doubtful and that the financial risks have to be taken chiefly by the Australian-based company? Has the Government defined a policy to protect and expand the smelting industries at Cockle Creek and Port Pirie that are controlled by CRA in the light of the purchase by it of Avonmouth and its large investment in the Holland plant now under construction? Surely this transaction, deal, swindle or scandal - depending upon the angle from which one views the matter - ought to be the subject of a searching detailed inquiry. The shareholders have a right to know the facts. The national Government has an obligation to assess what effect this deal will have on industry and employment, both in the short and the long term. I make the humble prognostication that neither the Minister for National Development nor the Government will do so. If that is the case, I request that the matter be immediately referred to the Senate Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control for detailed investigation. 
In the limited time that I have at my disposal I would suggest that the following should be the terms of reference of any inquiry into RTZ: Firstly, is it a fact that in recent years the Avonmouth zinc-lead smelter has encountered 2 very significant problems - pollution and a lack of profitability? Secondly, is it a fact that this company has encountered financial difficulties resulting from the West German Govern ment's decision to withdraw from a joint uranium venture in South West Africa? Thirdly, was this company's solution to sell the Avonmouth smelter to its partly owned profitable Australian subsidiary CRA? Fourthly, did such a transaction result in (a) the repatriation of profits in CRA without the payment of an Australian withholding tax; (b) the disposal of an unprofitable asset whose effect would be to dilute the profitability of an Australian subsidiary, so distributing some of the burden of losses from the United Kingdom to Australian shareholders and the Australian Treasury, and (c) the provision of funds to go ahead with the South West African project? 
Fifthly, and this is the important point, what effect did it have on Australian shareholders? In particular, what effect did it have on the loss of profitability due to the acquisition of a loss producing asset? Could it result in the prices of lead and zinc concentrates going to the required subsidiary at lower prices? Were Australian shareholders fully acquainted with the acquisition; if not, why not? Has CRA disclosed all the details of the transaction - how it intends to convert a position of liability into one of profitability; if not, why not? What are all the factors involved? Will it inhibit the establishment in Australia of new zinc and lead smelters to process Australian concentrates profitably? What uncertainties exist as such that relate to future United Kingdom pollution controls? Could any such measure result in CRA being required to outlay considerable sums to meet pollution control devices? 
Sixthly, insofar as the Australian Government is concerned, what effect would the loss of profitability have and by what level would taxation diminish? What would be the quantum of loss of economic activity with the consequential loss of employment opportunities and income producing effects? What would be the effect of the diversion from Australia of the much needed capital required for further development? To what extent has there been an avoidance of Australian tax by the repatriation of profits to purchase Avonmouth without the payment of a withholding tax? What would be the loss of taxation revenue on corporate profits due to zinc/lead refining taking place outside Australia? 
What would be the possible loss of taxation on profits due to the selling of zinc and lead concentrates at less than the true market price in order to avoid incurring excessive losses at Avonmouth? What would be the effect of the diversion of talented Australian management expertise to activities outside of this country? I would like an indication of the Government's attitude to what I believe is a scandal. 
I will not take up too much of the time of the House. I am grateful for the indulgence of the Minister for National Development  (Sir Reginald Swartz)  in allowing me this second opportunity of speaking. About a fortnight ago, the Minister submitted a voluminous document to this House. 1 believe that it was prepared earlier, in 1967, and was axed because it would have been publicly unpalatabic. It has now been resurrected, in effect as the Minister's swan song. I have had a series of 8 questions to the Minister for National Development on the notice paper dating as far back as 18th May asking the Government's attitude and policies in relation to discussions with the French, German, Japanese and United States Governments on uranium enrichment. I also understand that the statement made by the Minister is to be debated in this House, perhaps next week. 
The Minister knows that the Government will have to make up its mind as to what is to be its policy in regard to uranium enrichment. If I am to take part in a constructive debate on this matter, I would like these questions to be answered, as well as questions relating to equity holdings on the north west shelf, before this debate comes on. I think the Minister knows that Australia would receive far more in terms of export income from enriched uranium than it would from liquefied natural gas. We want to be in a position to make a balanced evaluation of this matter. The Minister knows that if Australia is to establish a uranium enrichment plant and natural gas is used as fuel, the amount of gas used over 20 years will be about 5 trillion cubic feet. If the enrichment plant were to use coal as fuel, between 150 million and 200 million tons of coal would be used. I am very eager to receive specific answers to these questions before the debate comes on. 
The second bracket of questions in which I am interested concerns the north west shelf. As I understand the situation, despite what the Minister for National Development may claim, overseas control of the north west shelf has reached 87.5 per cent. In effect, Australia has approximately 13 per cent equity remaining to it. Despite what the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  claimed, we have an equity ratio in Palm Valley of about 90 per cent foreign holding to 10 per cent Australian holding. The second point that I want to raise deals with the export of natural gas. Is it a fact that there is an agreement in existence between the Pacific Lighting Co. and Magellan Petroleum Southern Pty Ltd for the export of 500 million cubic feet of natural gas a day to the western seabord of the United States? 
Another question I want to raise refers to the Minister's claim that the Govern ment may permit the export of natural gas from remote areas. I should like to refer to recent remarks by  Sir William  Pettingell in regard to the Cooper Basin and Palm Valley.  Sir William  said that the Cooper Basin pipeline could cope with a loading of one billion cubic feet of natural gas a day which would be supplied at the same time from the Cooper Basin and Palm Valley and that this would make a pipeline very attractive. He said that the pipeline could take 600 million cubic feet a day in addition to the loadings of the Australian Gas Light Co. and suggested that some of this gas would be available for export on such an expanded market. 
The Minister for National Development, in announcing the Government's policy on the export of liquefied natural gas, said that it was the Commonwealth's intention in general not to allow the export of LNG except in certain circumstances in remote areas. What precisely does the Minister mean by 'remote areas'? Does he mean the north west shelf, the Amadeus Basin, Mereenie, Bass Strait or the Cooper Basin? It is pretty significant that the diameter of the pipe has been so designed as to provide for 2 things, firstly, to meet the local market and, secondly, to meet the export market. I would like to know precisely what the Minister means by the export of natural gas from remote areas. What are these areas? 
Finally - 1 shall conclude on this point - it is about time that this Government sorted out its priorities. It never fails to amaze me to see the attention that is given by the Press and other sections of the media to proposed takeovers of what I call the petty cash sector of the economy, namely, companies such as Ansett Transport Industries Ltd, Travelodge Australia Ltd and Kiwi Australia Ltd. If we were to add up the value of those companies and remove them from the stock market, we would be up for a total of $190m. Yet, we see a plundering of our resources which is reaching world crisis proportions and nothing is done about it. 
I sent a telegram to the  chairman  of the Senate Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control - I have not even had the courtesy of a reply - requesting a detailed study, examination and investigation into the escalation and depth of foreign control both in the north west shelf and the Amadeus Basin. This inquiry certainly will not get off the ground until there is a change of government. The point that worries me is that we are dealing with assets which, if we accept the Government's conservative estimate, are worth at least 2 to 3 times the national Budget, and these assets are being plundered and controlled by overseas corporations. If we accepted the Minister's own figures, these assets are worth $16.5 billion. I would like an answer to my questions. What does the Government intend to do in relation to dropping the chopper on the plunder of our resources, particularly of our fuel and energy resources, and the escalation of foreign control? 
I address to the Treasurer a question relating to 2 Bills which deal with non-life insurance. In view of the real possibility that a number of unsound insurance companies will collapse between now and when the House resumes can he give the Government's estimate of the number of policy holders who could be affected as the result of a collapse? In view of the fact that over the past 2i years 14 companies have gone into liquidation with an amount of $9m involved, will the Minister give an assurance to the House that these Bills will pass through all stages before the House rises? After  2i  years, during which time I have had on 12 occasions evasive replies dished up to me, will the Minister on this occasion give a simple decisive answer in the affirmative? 
Perhaps I may have the indulgence of the Committee to address a question to the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden).  It is not related to the subject matter before the Committee. I refer the Treasurer to paragraph 4 (a) of the explanatory memorandum which has been circulated to honourable members. In that paragraph reference is made to 15 per cent of the total voting power. Was this figure derived from the uniform Companies Act or from some ordinance? Can the Treasurer explain to me the basis of the 15 per cent? 
I join with the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  in paying a tribute to the Minister for National Development  (Sir Reginald Swartz).  I have always respected him as a man and particularly as a Minister.  1  wish him all the best for the future. Now that the Minister has had the sugar we will rub in the salt. On behalf of the Opposition I move the following amendment to the motion: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with  a  view to inserting the following words in place thereof: 'this House condemns the Government for its failure to prepare and publish plans to 
ensure world prices for exports of natural resources, 
promote processing industries located and controlled in Australia, and 
protect the environment from damage as  a  result of resource developments'. 
Further to what the honourable member for Dawson said in relation to Australia being an attractive market for resources, I think it ought to be understood that by 1985 Japan intends to appropriate some  $27i  billion, half of which will go to importing the raw materials required to meet its urgent needs. I join with the honourable member for Dawson in saying that this national Government has a responsibility to ensure that our non-renewable resources are maintained at a level to ensure that we have maximum Australian equity, participation and control. If one looks at the Minister's statement it will be seen that the very first objective of Government policy is as follows: 
Firstly, we should aim to bring into use the natural resources of our country as fully as our powers, energies and abilities permit for the benefit of ali Australians generally; 
I for one categorically state that the policies of this Government and the policies of State governments of similar political ilk, more particularly the Country-Liberal Party coalition in Queensland, are directed towards the exploitation of mineral resources are not in the national interest. In fact, in most instances the position is the very reverse. The Minister knows my interest in the North West shelf. I have placed on the notice paper some 16 detailed questions which date as far back as 23rd May - 5 months ago. I am still waiting for replies. The questions are penetrating and ask just what is the level of Australia's equity as against overseas equity in this, one of the largest and I believe the richest hydrocarbon basins in the world. It is far larger than the resources of the United Kingdom in the North Sea or the entire concessions on the Gulf of Mexico. 
Let me put to the Minister my analysis of the situation. The overseas share in discoveries of natural gas on the North West shelf is approximately 85.7 per cent. Half of the lease is owned in equal parts by the international oil companies - BP, Shell and California Asiatic (Caltex). The other half of the lease is owned by Woodside-Burmah NL. Burmah (UK) owns approximately 54.5 per cent of Woodside-Burmah. It is reported that possibly a further 20 per cent is held by overseas interests, indicating a total overseas share in WoodsideBurmah of approximately 75 per cent. So this leaves Australia's equity at approximately 12.3 per cent. Let us remember that a conservative estimate of the reserve is approxi mately 45 trillion cubic feet and it has a value of $16.5 billion, which would be equal to another 50 per cent being added to our entire national budget. Why has the Minister failed to answer my questions which I asked some 5 months ago? Is it that he cannot get the information? Is it that the Woodside-Burmah group refuses to furnish him with it? Is it that he has no power to get the information? Is it that he simply refuses to take action which would be in Australia's interests but which would be in direct opposition to Burmah Oil of London which controls this vast hydrocarbon basin? These questions ought to be answered in the national interest. In addition to those questions, I ask the Minister the following series of questions about this matter. 
Obviously not. Why did  Mr Rees  B. Withers retire as managing director of Woodside Burmah last Thursday? I believe his salary as managing director was $25,000 per annum. Was it because there exists a bitter division between board members as to the important question of the disclosure to the public of the estimates of the North West shelf natural gas reserves? Is it a fact that the Burmah (UK) group which holds the numbers flatly refused to disclose the depth of the reserves? Is it a fact that  Mr Withers  and a small group claim that they ought to be disclosed in the national interest? Is it a fact that informal sources claim that the reserves are at least 60 trillion cubic feet of deliverable gas and more than 100 trillion cubic feet gross apart from condensate? Is it a fact that Burmah (UK) placed an advertisement earlier this year in a London newspaper indicating that reserves were at 45 trillion cubic feet? 
Is it a fact that Woodside Burmah shares have declined recently and are passing rapidly from Australian ownership at depressed prices? Is it a fact that heavy overseas scrip has taken place during this period because of the information that has been denied to Australian investors? Is it a fact that the Bureau of Mineral Resources has carried out investigations and in fact knows the depth of the reserves in the area? If so, why has the Minister failed to make a statement in this House? Does the 
Minister agree that a disclosure would inject the inducement necessary to attract Australian investors? What is the extent of Woodside-Burmah share drainage away from Australian ownership by way of nominee buying? Will the Minister take immediate steps to protect the national interest by conducting an immediate investigation? Has the Government the power to enforce the provisions contained in the Bill introduced into this House yesterday on foreign takeovers, if in fact they do apply, to cite the quantum of overseas plunder by way of nominee buying? Further I ask the Minister whether the Act will have retrospective power to enable the recovery of Australian control of this major natural gas deposit? 
Did he note the statement of  Mr A.  Lumsden,  Chairman  of Burmah (U.K.) last Thursday to the effect: 'Burmah was not worried about rising Australian nationalism - an emotion to which it was no stranger in other parts of the world. All signs are that the Government will be realistic'? What precisely did  Mr Lumsden  mean when he spoke about this Government being realistic? Let the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  speak for the Government on this question. In answer to a question relating to the failure of this Government to act in the national interest in dealing with an overseas steel pipe contract, he said categorically that the Government's approach when dealing with overseas corporations was in fact a soft one. Surely in terms of our vast nonrenewable fuel and energy resources this is not very satisfactory. There is a world fuel and energy crisis developing, particularly in the developed countries of the world. The honourable member for Mallee  (Sir Winton Turnbull)  talked about defence. The United States has something like 20 years supply of indigenous fuel and natural gas. If a country does not have fuel, it has no defence. 
If we turn to the question of nonrenewable fuel and energy resources, in my view a national government must act within the parameters of nationalism. It has the responsibility in fact to pursue a hard line to ensure maximum Australian equity, participation and control. These resources certainly are the most valuable and strategic in terms of national interest. This Government stands condemned for its failure to exercise its powers, its energies and its abilities. Because of its soft line it has permitted the exploitation, the control and the profit in relation to these resources to be determined in a board room in London. 
It has been estimated by a company which has compared the hydrocarbon deposits on the North West shelf with those in the Gulf of Mexico and in the Middle East that there are almost 9,000 million barrels of crude oil on the shelf. This gives a revenue factor of something like $2.6 billion. But if we take the figure of 60 trillion cubic feet of natural gas, we find that these vast deposits are more than enough to support a major liquefied natural gas or methanol export project and the Pilbara steel mineral development and leave enough for general use elsewhere in Australia. These assets, which are the envy of the developed countries of the world, could not be more effectively or efficiently plundered if this country were a vassal of a conquering foreign army. The reason for it is that this Government, after 23 years, takes a soft approach to multi-national corporations. These vast gas reserves are capable of providing, and should provide, an essential underwriting of this country's future, whether it be in terms of energy or in terms of decentralisation. This Government lacks completely a nationalfuel and energy policy and a comprehensive and balanced plan for the efficient exploitation of our vast mineral resources. I suggest to the Minister and to the Government that it is high time that the Government threw into the wastepaper basket 2 of the pillars of Liberal philosophy: One is its colonial mentality, and the other is its soft approach to multi-national corporations. The Government should purchase a 'do it yourself' kit. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Will Australian and Indonesian technical experts meet in September 1972 to discuss the boundary between Northern Western Australia and Indonesia. 
If so, on what dates will the meeting take place and will it be conducted on a tripartite basis to include Portugal. 
Has this matter been the subject of discussion between the Government and the Woodside Burmah consortium; if so, when were the discussions held and what policies resulted. 
Is Portugal supporting Indonesia in seeking a median line between the Australian coast and Timor. 
If these countries are successful, will the median line pass through a number of permit areas granted by either the Western Australian or the Commonwealth Governments. 
Which of these two governments has jurisdiction over these permit areas. 
What is the exact geographical location of these permit areas, and are they currently subject to farm-out or proposed farm-out agreement. 
What is the (a) maximum and (b) minimum distance claimed by the Government in respect of the proposed boundary line from (i) the northwestern Australian coast and (ii) Timor. 
Can he say whether drilling operations are taking place within the area between the proposed median line and Timor; if so, what companies are involved, and what is their exact geographical location of operation. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Have there been any discussions between the Commonwealth and United States Governments regarding the effect on uranium prices resulting from the United States decision to release 50,000 tons of uranium in the form of yellowcake from its national stockpile. 
Have any discussions been held with any of the members of the tripartite centrifuge enrichment consortium into the possibility of their participating in a feasibility study for a centrifuge enrichment plant in Australia along the lines of the study being undertaken with the French Government for a diffusion enrichment station. 
Has the German industrial group, Studiengesellschaft Fur Uranisotoedntrennverfahren, set up to study enrichment technologies, been approached by the Commonwealth to assist in the formulation of Australian policies towards uranium enrichment. 
Under the new treaty with Japan for cooperation for the peaceful uses of atomic energy, does Australia have access to the latest technology on centrifuge enrichment developed in Japan, in particular the technology developed by Toshiba, Hitachi, Mitsubishi and Kawasaki. 
Is the Enrichment Study Group in the Japanese Central Electric Power Research Institute of the Japanese Government intending to assess the possibility of a uranium enrichment plant in Australia; if so, what aid has been given to them by the Australian Government. 
Will the report of the study conducted by Cameron, McNamara and Partners on coordinated development of the Alligator region be made public; if so, when will it be available and will it be tabled in the Parliament to enable a debate to take place. 
Was a correct assessment made by  Sir Philip  Baxter when he stated on Monday Conference recently that Australia's uranium reserves are in excess of 200,000 tons; if not, what are Australia's uranium reserves. 
Can he say whether (a) the Spanish Government intends to set up a Government owned national uranium company, (b) uranium resources in Sweden are under the control of A.B. Atomenergi, a government organisation rather than a private company and (c) the British company, Nuclear Fuels Ltd, is wholly owned by the British Government. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
In relation to the Northwest Shelf exploration programme of the Woodside-Burmah consortium, were the relative interests of the initial consortium of companies organised by the Australian firms Woodside Oil and Mid-Eastern Oil to explore the areas as follows: 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Can he say whether the Kaiser Steel International Mining Corporation took up 36 million shares in Hamersley Holdings Ltd on its formation in 1967. 
Did the Corporation, through a share split in 1970 and a 1 for 20 bonus issue in May 1970, increase its holdings to a maximum of 79,380,000 shares, worth $18m, which represented 36 per cent of the total capital of the company. 
Did the Corporation sell 3,780,000 of these shares on 1st January 1971 at $5.17 a share. 
Did the Corporation make a total profit of $16. 8m, or $4.70 a share, from this transaction. 
Did the Corporation at the same time reduce the net cost of the 75,600,000 shares it still holds, which represents 34.5 per cent of the total capital of the company, to 15c a share. 
Did the Corporation pay taxation in conformity, with section 26a of the Income Tax Assessment Act on these profits; if not,' why not. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to a recent Press report stating that in New South Wales at least 20 motor insurance brokers have been dropped by, a large insurance company for keeping premiums and leaving hundreds of car owners uninsured, that as much as $60,000 is involved in these dubious transactions, that the insurance company involved had changed ownership and management and it had discovered these illegal actions of the brokers when claims were received from motorists who had no policy with the company, and that the insurance company has advised claimants to sue the brokers. 
If so, will he take immediate steps to ascertain (a) the name of the insurance company involved, (b) the names of the brokers involved and (c) the Act under which the company and the brokers were registered. 
Has his attention also been drawn to a recent Press statement attributed to the  Hon.  F. M. Hewitt, M.L.C., Minister for Labour and Industry in New South Wales, committing the State Government to legislative action (a) to force insurance companies to pay the full amount a car is insured for if the vehicle becomes a write-off and (b) to amend the Consumer's Protection Act, if the foreshadowed Commonwealth legislation fails to do so. 
Will he give an unequivocal assurance that the foreshadowed Non-Life Insurance Bill will be introduced during the present Parliament. 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Attorney-General. In view of the strong criticisms by members of the business community, professions and universities, of the complexity and the outdated philosophy of our ramshackle Australian company law as embodied in the uniform Companies Acts, will the Minister take urgent action to appoint an expert committee to examine in depth the position of corporations in our present society and the problems which they raise, and to advise the Government on the measures which should be enacted in the proposed Commonwealth Companies Act so as to make that Act effectively meet the needs of the Australian society in the twentieth century? 
I ask the Minister representing the Attorney-General whether his attention has been drawn to a reported financial loss totalling some $17m incurred by member companies of the Alexander Barton group. Is it a fact that the moneys raised to finance the activities of the group drew benefits under the Commonwealth taxation law? In view of the Commonwealth's interest in this matter, will the Minister take immediate steps to have the matter referred for full inquiry by the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange? 
by leave- From the outset, let me say quite bluntly that I and the Government have complete faith in the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor).  If there is a storm in a teacup facing this country and the world it is something of which the previous Government had no knowledge or to which it would not face up. I refer to the fact that there is a world energy crisis looming. The world reserves of oil are about 90 billion metric tons, 50 billion metric tons of which is controlled in the Middle East. If Australia is to become self-sufficient in the near future - by the year 2000, at least - one thing it cannot tolerate is having its oil, natural gas and uranium dominated by the big 7 or the multi-national corporations. At long last, the United States of America has come around to the idea that any agreements made in regard to the price fixation of crude oil throughout the world should be determined on a government to government basis and not between the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting countries and the multinational corporations. 1 noted that, throughout his long address, the shadow Minister for Minerals and Energy, the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn),  never tackled the question on which I am very interested to pass some remarks, namely, the level of Australian equity on the north-west shelf. I put some 20 questions on the notice paper in February last year on the very matter that the Minister for Minerals and Energy has raised this evening. ] did not receive a reply until after the House had risen last October. If one looks at the statement made by the Minister this evening, one will see that it has taken from 25th November 1968 until this month, April 1973, for a national government of Australia to be in the position to make an exact evaluation of the recoverable reserves on the north-west shelf. 
It is a singularly odd fact that over 18 months ago the previous Minister acknowledged, as I understand it through the Bureau of Mineral Resources, that there were in fact some 45 trillion cubic feet of natural gas reserves on the north-west shelf. That information was divulged by way of a leak in London. According to the figures, those reserves were valued at that time at $16.5 billion. I wish to ask again a series of questions which I asked in October last year. As I understand it, although the national Government of the time was not provided with runoff sheets to indicate what were the recoverable reserves on the north-west shelf, this information certainly was known in London. Since that point of time there has been a deterioration of Australian equity in the north-west shelf to a level of 12.3 per cent. In fact, there has been a counter balance all the way through. Last October I put questions to the previous Government, but it did not recognise this fact at all. I asked why did Withers, in fact, last October retire as Managing Director of Woodside-Burmah. Was it not, in fact, that there was a conflict between the Australian representatives - a minority group, I might add for the benefit of the shadow Minister opposite - on that Board on the failure of the Burmah dominated board to disclose the recoverable reserves? While we are dealing with that point let me outline to the Minister my assessment of who controls Woodside-Burmah. Donaldson is the  Chairman.  In my view he stands for Burmah. Withers, a director, is Australia; Rover. Burmah; Wilson, Burmah; Martison, Burmah; Breen, Australia; Prince, Australia; Sackville, Australia; Seddon, Burmah. I ask the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  who controls Woodside-Burham. I think the internal conflict within the structure of WoodsideBurmah was such that Withers resigned in protest against the failure of the company to divulge its recoverable reserves and so attract Australian shareholding and equity. The company's failure to do this has meant that in one of the largest hydro-carbon deposits in the world Australia is. left with 12.5 per cent equity. We are moving to the stage where it will be completely dominated by multinational corporations. No national government should ever be placed in that iniquitous situation. During this period there was a reduction in share prices of Woodside-Burmah, but there was a corresponding influx, I believe, of nominee share transactions, particularly of scrip from New York and London with the net result that Australia's equity declined to 12.5 per cent. 
Last October I also asked whether it was not a fact that the Bureau of Mineral 
Resources had carried out investigations and knew the depth of the reserves in the area. The then Minister was correct in his reply then. It is obvious that it has taken a Labor government to ascertain the reserves. Since 1968 until the previous Government was voted out of office it was refused information by Woodside-Burmah concerning the reserves. This is common of multi-national corporations. The honourable member for Farrer spoke about BP but made no reference to Esso. On behalf of the Australian shareholders 1 should like to know what are the recoverable reserves at Mackerel and Flounder fields. Why is this information being withheld? It is the tactic of all multi-national corporations to conserve and not divulge their reserves. This is a deplorable situation when one has regard to the terms of the agreement that was hammered out. Clause 13 of the Commonwealth-State Agreement on Off-shore Petroleum Resources states: 
A State government will, when so requested by the Commonwealth Government, ensure that copies of the returns, reports, maps, notifications, logs, records and the like material and adequate portions of all cores, cuttings and samples that are received by it or its authorities by virtue of the operation of the Common Mining Code in relation to the adjacent area of the Slate ure, as soon us reasonably practicable after receipt, forwarded to the Commonwealth. 
I want to express my personal assessment and observation on what are, in fact, the reserves on the north-west shelf. I have gathered much of this information from the Kitcat and Aitken report - a London report bearing a date 12 months ago. It is remarkable that this information was available in Britain, but no assessment was made in Australia. In the report is a comment about the North Rankin field. The honourable member for Farrer will know that technical runoff sheets are made by these companies, taken to a technical committee and subsequently put to the boards. My assessment is that on the North Rankin field there could well be 32 trillion feet recoverable with condensate around about 25 barrels per million. The Goodwin field could well have 16 trillion cubic feet; Angel, 8 trillion cubic feet; Rankin, 5 trillion cubic feet; Scotts Reef, 18 trillion cubic feet with condensate as high at 350 barrels per 18 million; Eagle Hawk, no condensate and 2,700 barrels of oil a day; and at Egret the prospects for oil are excellent. These figures represent about 60 trillion cubic feet which I believe is about accurate for the north-west shelf. Why is there such a wide disparity between the figures that have been disclosed by WoodsideBurmah and what I consider to be closer to the actual mark? 
Honourable members opposite talk about risk capital in Australia. As long as multinational corporations withhold recoverable figures Australian risk capital will not be attracted in terms of share equity. The Government has a national responsibility to find out and have disclosed exactly what are the reserves. It is time the national Government controlled one of the areas most crucial to this nation if not to the world. Who is to control our oil, our gas and our uranium? If ever there is an indictment of the previous Government, after its  23  years in office, it is that we have no balanced evaluation of our national resources. Above all, we have no balanced evaluation of our fuel and energy needs for the next  20  years. An extrapolation should be undertaken now of our needs for the next  50  years. We should determine what needs to be conserved and, if such is possible, what can be exported. We should be in a position where Australia can act as a seller's market and not a buyer's market. If the previous Government had remained in office for the next  3  years all I can say is God help this country because it would have controlled absolutely nothing. 
If honourable members want to understand the situation as it is tragically affecting the United States of America I point out that the United States is finding, for the first time in its history, that the biggest issue facing Nixon at present is his energy policy and his energy prices. He has been put in an invidious position because he permitted the multinational corporations to negotiate with OPEC rather than on a government to government basis. Fuel in the United States - whether it be gas, oil, uranium or coal - is controlled by multi-national corporations. Australia should never be placed in that situation. I support the Minister's statement. 
The statement of the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  clearly sets out the Government's policy, and I believe that it may be summarised as follows: Firstly, a majority Australian control over both equity and policy of our resources development; secondly, the coordination of a national fuel and energy policy; thirdly, regulated exploration, development, transportation and marketing of oil, natural gas or related hydrocarbons; fourthly, recognition that petroleum is a finite mineral resource; fifthly, the need for a fuel and energy budget; sixthly, recognition that adequate dependable low cost supplies are crucial to this nation's progress and security; and seventhly, the imperative need to recognise that control of and responsibility for our national fuel and energy resources must be exercised by a national government and not left to the whim of private individuals or companies whose basic motivating force is private profit and gain. 
Might I at this juncture make 2 comparatively crucial assessments to which the previous Government refused to face up. One is the overt pressure and power being exercised by multi-national corporations on national governments or sovereign States, and the second is the world energy crisis. In my humble opinion these 2 basic assessments will prove the most formidable problems that will face national governments in the very near future. What is the position facing this country at the moment in terms of its reserves and in terms of its control? Just how crucial is it to have a totally balanced evaluation of fuel and energy resources? Australian and world demand, current and projected, clearly indicates ominous signs of a world fuel crisis. Throughout the leading petroleum consuming countries consumption of energy has been growing at from 3 to 5 times the rate of population increase. What is Australia's position insofar as oil is concerned? I have said this previously and I will repeat it: On present known reserves, by the year 1983-84 we will be producing 50 million barrels per annum. We will consume some 410 million barrels per annum. In effect we will have one-eighth of our requirements by way of known reserves. Based on the world parity price of $2.60 a barrel at 350 million barrels c.i.f., this would mean an annual cost burden to this nation of $1.5 billion. In relation to the question of Australian governmental expenditure and private finance, I seek leave to have incorporated in Hansard a table which clearly sets out that Government expenditure plus Australian private funds as a proportion of the total funds for petroleum exploration, development and production in 1971 constituted 58 per cent. 

<graphic href="083131197304120_50_1.jpg"></graphic>

Let me turn to the question of natural gas. Reserves have been estimated at between 70 trillion and 100 trillion cubic feet. Let me turn to the crucial question of equity participation and control. I shall deal today only with the 2 basic areas - Palm Valley and the northwest shelf. Palm Valley has an estimated 10 trillion cubic feet. Let us have a look at who controls this. Magellan Petroleum Australia has 43.33 per cent, Magellan Petroleum (United States) 13.54 per cent, United Canso Oil Ltd (Canada) 24.38 per cent, Freeport of Australia Incorporated (United States) and Flinders Petroleum NL 9.375 per cent each. In turn, Magellan Australia is owned 54.1 per cent by Magellan Petroleum Corporation of the United States, 21.1 per cent by Partepec International Incorporated of Bermuda and the balance by the Australian public. This is the company which in fact has signed an agreement with Pacific Lighting Corporation of Los Angeles to supply and export 500 million cubic feet a day to the western seaboard of the United States, subject of course to the Australian Government's approval to export liquefied natural gas from Palm Valley. In my view it is a deplorable situation that this field is almost totally controlled by overseas multi-national corporations. 
I turn to the northwest shelf. WoodsideBurmah, together with British Petroleum, Shell and California Asiatic holds leases totalling some 143,000 square miles. It is beyond question - and I disagree with the previous  speaker  - the largest gas off-shore provinces in the world, an area larger than the British Isles or the British sector of the North Sea or the entire concessions in the Gulf of Mexico. Just how is this vast hydrocarbon basin carved up. It reads like a 'Who's Who' of the multi-national corporations. WoodsideBurmah is 54.5 per cent owned by Burmah Oil of London. The remaining interest is held by Shell, British Petroleum and California Asiatic with 161 per cent interest each. I am firmly of the opinion that the resignation of  Mr Withers,  formerly Managing Director of Woodside-Burmah, on 20th October last stemmed directly from a bitter division over the need to disclose the estimated northwest shelf natural gas reserves. It is a fact that he is one of the 5 who, out of the 9 members who constitute the Woodside-Burmah Board, are Burmah supporters. They have deliberately refused to reveal the current estimated reserves. 
I am further convinced that the northwest shelf reserves are immense. My guestimate is that they are between 60 trillion and 100 trillion cubic feet gross. However a minority faction, and  Mr Withers  was one of them, was conscious of  this  simple fact that WoodsideBurmah shares had declined significantly already on the stock exchanges. As a consequence they were passing rapidly from Australian ownership at a low or depressed price. I want to quote from the Kit Kat Aitken report which was the only report I could find up to October last year which had made a balanced evaluation of the northwest shelf. This is what the report had to say. 
We only gave our forecast below for the sake of interest and to demonstrate that, even with the information available, the operation appears fully viable and the shares substantially undervalued. 
The consequence of the deliberate and calculated overt pressure applied by overseas interests is blatantly obvious as a tactic. It is a fact that Woodside-Burmah shares had declined and had been swallowed up by nominee share transactions to a level where overseas control on the northwest shelf is now estimated to be 87.7 per cent. In effect Australian equity in that vast holding is 12.3 per cent. It is scandalous that the density of foreign control has been achieved by nominee share transactions about which the previous Government did nothing. But added to that, and to compound it, of the 20,500 square miles which was farmed in under an arrangement reached through the connivance of Woodside-Burmah- 
It was up to Woodside Burmah to call for tenders. Out of the 9 companies that applied and were granted farm-out arrangements only one was an Australian corporation, Hermatite Petroleum Pty Ltd, a subsidiary of Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd. Let us put the field in its proper perspective, as I understand it. I have noticed Press reports estimating that there are some 9,000 million barrels of crude and condensate on the northwest shelf. This would have a value of approximately $2.6 billion. However, the estimated 60 trillion cubic feet - my guesstimate - of natural gas is valued in national terms at $25 billion, twice the entire national budget. It would supply more than enough to support a major liquefied natural gas or methanol export project, presumably the export of methanol to the United States of America and liquefied natural gas to Japan. It would also supply the Pilbara steel and mineral development project and leave enough for general use elsewhere in this country. These assets which are the envy of the developed countries could not have been more effectively or efficiently plundered if this country were a vassal of a conquering foreign army. It is the result of the previous Government's open gate and soft approach to multinational corporations. 
Why has the density of foreign control become so high in these 2 areas? I can recall being scoffed at and ridiculed when I asserted last year that we could get to the stage of exporting liquefied natural gas and rather than getting 16c a thousand cubic feet, which is the gate price paid from Gidgealpa to Adelaide it could rise to as high at $1.25 a thousand cubic feet. We are fully conscious of the pressure which was placed by the multi-national corporations on the previous Government and on this Government over the granting of export licences whether to Japan or the United States. Already Shell receives 80c a thousand cubic feet for its gas from Brunei landed in Japan. It is estimated by reputable bodies in the United States that the United States will pay a price of between $1 and $1.25 a thousand cubic feet. Already the United States is paying between 95c and 98c a thousand cubic feet for Algerian gas landed on the eastern seaboard of the United States. It needs little imagination to assess the huge profits which would be taken out of this country by multi-national corporations had export licences been granted to either of the corporations operating at Palm Valley or the northwest shelf. 
My Government's policy is deliberately and constructively geared so that any profits obtained from this source will be exploited only on the basis that it is in the national interest and that any profit from such exploitation will be maximised at world parity prices and will be for the national good and not for the profits of individual companies or multi-national corporations. 
Just how crucial is the need for national control and a balanced evaluation of our resources? The previous Government, in its usual slavish policy of following the dictates of the United States, was rapidly exploiting our resources - fuel and energy - on exactly the same lines as the United States and it would have been equally as disastrous to this country as it has been to the United States. Let me quote briefly from a report by the Chase Manhattan Bank which ought to bring home to the Opposition just now crucial the situation is in the United States. The Bank's energy economics report stated: 
The United States is not going to be able to afford to fill its energy gap requirements between now and 1985 completely by imports. It is now obvious that the United States is faced with a very serious situation in respect of energy supply. And unless positive corrective actions are taken immediately the problem will become critical. 
If the United States is forced to import amounts of oil and gas necessary to meet its full requirements, the necessary outflow by 1985 is likely to be in excess of $30 billion a year, compared with about 34 billion at the present time. 
In no sense would it be realistic to expect that the outflow of dollars would be offset by a corresponding inflow. The annual balance of payments deficit alone could be as much as $25 billion; a deficit the nation could not tolerate. 
If one wants to put it in more cogent terms, the United States currently imports 23 per cent of its oil requirements. By 1982 it will be forced to import 50 per cent and by 1992, 75 per cent. If one takes the figures of $US4 a barrel and $US6 a barrel, by 1982 and 1992 the American people will be up for an annual cost burden of between$US16 billion and$US48 billion. I put it quite seriously to this House that the world wide fuel and energy crisis, the role which has been played by those countries which control these vast non-renewable resources, the role being played by the multi-national corporations and the effects which they have on national governments in Western Europe, Japan and the United States, are crucial to world stability and peace. I quote now an extract from a report recently handed down by the Institute of Strategic Studies. It said: 
The world contains 'proven reserves' of crude oil estimated at about 90,000 million metric tons. Of this, over 50,000 million tons are in the area of the Middle East (which here includes North Africa).  (Extension of time granted). 
The report continues: 
Middle East oil is cheap: the capital investment required to produce one barrel per day there has varied from $120 to $265, whereas North Sea costs have been estimated at $2,500 per b/d. The world now consumes approximately 2,500 million tons of oil a year. Of this, almost 1,000 million tons comes from the Middle East. Table 1 shows that while West European and Japanese dependence on Middle East oil is already very large, that of the United States is relatively insignificant. It has been estimated, however, that, with the growth of energy demand and the exhaustion of domestic natural gas reserves, the United States may require 1,100-1,200 million tons of oil in 1980 and 1,250-1,500 million tons in 1985, and that domestic production is unlikely to exceed 600 million tons in the former year or 720 million tons in the latter. In 1980, therefore, American oil imports might be some 550 million tons, possibly rising to over 700 million in 1985. The Middle East will presumably supply a high percentage of this, with cautious estimates of 1985 imports from that source ranging between 500 and 600 million tons. In that same year, Western Europe may require up to 1,100 million tons of imported oil and Japan up to 600 million tons, with the bulk of that also expected to come from the Middle East 
This is the crucial part - 
In order to satisfy demand, Middle Eastern production might have to rise from 972 million tons in 1971 to something like 2,500 million tons in 1985. In return, Middle Eastern governments would then be receiving an estimated annual income from oil exported to the United States, Western Europe and Japan alone of up to $40,000m a year, forcing them to become substantial partners in the international financial system. It would be unwise to assume that all these expectations will prove justified. Many are based on simple extrapolations of recent trends, and are vulnerable to the fluctuation of economic growth rates, the deliberate energy policies of governments, changes in the relative prices of primary energy sources and the unpredioted development of non-oil sources. Nevertheless, it is such projections which form the basis for current policy decision by producing and consuming countries and by the oil industry itself. That, in the crudest terms, is why the politics and economics of oil have become the most important issue in Middle Eastern affairs and in the future relationship between Middle Eastern oil-producing (and oil-transporting) countries and the large consuming markets of the developed world. The events of 1972 offered the clearest illustration yet of the pattern which is evolving. 
The point I make is that Western Europe, Japan and the United States are becoming almost entirely reliant on the MiddleEast. Imagine an amount of $40 billion going to Middle Eastern countries. Once that amount starts to gravitate in the international markets of the world it will become a problem in terms of stability in international monetary markets. I mentioned the movement of the multi-national corporations. It is the movement of large volumes of money at this level gravitating through the international markets that is causing the instability. I vividly recall some 3 years ago the Labour Prime Minister of Great Britain claiming that the gnomes of Zurich had been responsible for the devaluation of sterling at that time when basically devaluation was caused by the multi-national corporations. 
In summary, I think it is fundamentally crucial that this country should not be placed in an identical situation to that which now faces the United States. Its national fuel and energy policy has been left entirely to the dictates of the multi-national corporations which have no responsibility to the United States or to any other country. They are concerned only about machinating around the world and increasing their profits from one country to another. We should not be placed in that vulnerable situation. Japan is in such a situation at the moment and it has had to  diversify from the Middle East. It wants rapport with China or Russia to get high grade coking coal and crude oil. Personally I am proud to support the Minister's statement and our Government's policy objectives. They are 23 years out of date. They ought to have been initiated after the Second World War because anybody who had studied this subject at all could have predicted that in regard to resources the world is rapidly developing polarisation of instability. I sincerely trust that in the years to come this polarisation will not take place. I hope that there will be international rationalisation of distribution of resources because if this is not achieved there will be conflicts and possibly war. My Government's policies are constructively geared to regulate and control our vast non-renewable fuel and energy resources to ensure that such exploitation is in the national interest. This whole area of fuel and energy is the one basic area where beyond question control must be exercised in the national interest in terms of our future progress and security. That progress and security can only be safeguarded and protected by a national government. I commend the Minister and congratulate the Government for its positive policy and its timely initiative. 
I direct my question to the Treasurer. Is the placement of marine hull insurance by the Australian National Line effected through an Australian or an overseas brokerage firm? If it is effected with an overseas firm, why is that done? Will the Treasurer take immediate steps to have such brokerage undertaken by Australian owned and controlled firms? Is it a fact that 90 per cent of the marine hull insurances of the Australian National Line are placed overseas? If so. is the Treasurer satisfied in view of the Government's declared attitude to Australian contractors that the full resources of the Australian insurance market be utilised in the placement of this insurance? Will the Treasurer take immediate steps to establish guidelines and policies directed to the placement of all Commonwealth Government insurance with Australian owned and controlled companies? 
Has the attention of the Minister for Minerals and Energy been drawn to a report in yesterday's 'Financial Review' as to the selection of a site in Queensland for a uranium enrichment plant? In view of our quite large high grade reserves of uranium and the importance of uranium as a fuel source, will the Minister briefly outline his attitude in these areas? 
I rise to support the Bill and to compliment the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor).  The Bil) contains a part of the Australian Labor Party's long standing fuel and energy policy. I refer to the setting up of a national pipeline body to link Australian petroleum fields of proven reserves. The present Opposition has had nothing comparable at all. I was interested m the remark passed by the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Viner)  about the Government's jigsaw puzzle. Might I point out to the honourable member that after almost a quarter of a century of Tory government in this country we came into office to find this area in complete shambles. We found on taking office that there was no balanced evaluation at all on a national basis, particularly in the crucial area of fuel and energy. The task was left to this Government to clean up what in fact was a complete mess. 
The Pipeline Authority has already been likened to the Snowy Mountains Corporation in its scope and in its importance. I was rather intrigued with the remark of the honourable member for Stirling about the insidious growth of the national Pipeline Authority. Does he consider that the Snowy Mountains scheme was an insidious project? I can well recall, I think from 1947 to 1949, that his own Party boycotted it. I do not know of a more efficient organisation. In fact it was equally as efficient as perhaps one of the largest in the world, the Tennessee Valley Authority in the United States. The initial estimated cost of the Snowy Mountains scheme, which was completed this year, was $800m. On completion the. cost was exactly $800m. If that is not efficiency, I do not know what is. That scheme plays an extremely valuable role in Australia's economic fabric and also it returns to the Government a handsome profit each year. What 1 am trying to point out is this: The function of the Snowy Mountains Corporation when it was proposed was criticised as being outside the Commonwealth sphere. That was put up in 1949. I am not suggesting for a moment that this is the argument which the Opposition is putting in relation to the legislation before the House. But it is as untrue today as it was then in relation to the Snowy Mountains Corporation, and it is even more untrue in regard to the Pipeline Authority. 
The Commonwealth should be very concerned with natural resources and works that: (1) Are important for defence; (2) involve land acquisition on a large scale; (3) involve (potentially) harm to the environment; (4) are situated in areas remote from seats of State Government; (5) involve a large capital investment; (6) play a potentially large role in the maintenance of balance of payments; (7) involve the seabed around Australia; (8) are national in scope but are subject to conflicting State laws; (9) are situated on Federal territory; (10) are required by citizens in Federal territory; and (11) promote decentralisation. Does the Opposition disagree with that analysis? All of those points underline concerns of pipeline building and maintenance and therefore point to Commonwealth control. If there had not been tardiness by the previous Government the Commonwealth would be giving the States the lead in legisation on this matter. 
I was interested also in the remarks passed by the honourable member for Stirling about national aspirations and ownership. He said that ownership means the individual - you and I. Let us analyse the position insofar as the Palm Valley-Sydney link-up was concerned. I suggest that the position with regard to the fight for control of the pipeline from Palm Valley to Sydney was not, in my humble view, over concern to capture the indigenous market. Rather it involved the long term export market potential. Hence the fact that there is to be a 34-inch pipe. Let us take the current figures in South Australia. I do not suggest for a moment that different figures apply insofar as the 20-year contract for the Palm Valley to Sydney pipeline is concerned. But there is a vast difference between the gate price of 16c a thousand cubic ft and a price of $1.25 a thousand cubic ft at the other end which would have been the terms of the agreement between Magellan Petroleum Australia at Palm Valley and the Pacific Lighting Co. of the western seaboard of the United States. 
This national Government is faced with a world energy crisis. Let me compare the figures of the static index and the exponential index insofar as oil and gas are concerned. On the static index we have sufficient reserves of gas resources for about 30 years. On the exponential index the estimate is about 27 to 28 years. It seems deplorable to me that one should be faced with the situation that exists today. Most national governments of the world have reached the stage where no longer can they permit corporations or multi-national corporations to have control over fuel and energy resources and any government that opts to do so is acting completely irresponsibly. 
The previous Government subjected itself to the influence of foreign owned companies. The honourable member for Stirling talked about individuals. What does he mean by individuals? Most of the resources of this country in terms of gas and crude oil regrettably are under the control of overseas corporations. Palm Valley is largely controlled by Magellan, United Caruso, Freeport Sulphur and Pantepec which are all of the United States. The only equity that I can recall or understand on Palm Valley is in fact Flinders Non-Liability, and from memory I think we have about 9 per cent of that. If we look at the north-west shelf of Western Australia we find that exactly the same situation applies. We have now reached the stage where overseas corporations control that vast holding to the extent of almost 87 per cent. We have about 13 per cent equity left in that area. The same thing applies equally in respect of Bass Strait where Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd and Esso are working. Esso-Exxon has a 50 per cent equity in this venture. This is the first of the 7 big multi-national oil corporations. 
How much longer can we go on with a situation in which most of the important reserves in terms of fuel and energy in this country could in fact have been controlled, dissipated and exploited by overseas corporations. The other field to which I want to make some reference because I think it is apposite to a matter that was raised this morning is the question of uranium. It is estimated that there will be a shortfall of gas and crude oil by 1985. I have said in the House before and I will repeat it now that 90 billion metric tons of crude oil are currently the world's reserves and that 50 billion metric tons are situated in the Middle East or in North Africa. It is estimated that by 1985 Western Europe, Japan and the United States will have to import crude oil heavily. The United States will have a cost burden for imported crude by 1985 of $32 billion per annum. If one talks in terms of uranium of which we have about 200,000 short tons, it has been estimated that the United States will not be in a position to export enriched uranium after 1980. Already the West Germans are negotiating with the Russian Government to import enriched uranium into West Germany. 
The important factor is that the fuel reserves of uranium will be vital by 1985, and it must be a national Government that controls these reserves. This cannot be left, I suggest, to the States or the multi-national corporations. I know this Government will not do so, but any government that opts out of its national responsibility will be casting a gloom over the future prospects of this country. The approach of the previous Government to fuels and energy was correspondingly a piecemeal one and was dependent on the initiative and export incentives of such companies. This applied in the case of Palm Valley. 
Commercial control of a national pipeline is not feasible for the reasons I am about to state. I have noted the remarks of the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton).  Firstly, the contracts for pipe building may be in the interests of the companies but not in Australia's interests. Secondly, companies should not be given rights to private land on such a huge scale. Thirdly, some companies maintain an absurd veil of secrecy over their operations. Fourthly, needless legislation on permits, rights to land and so on is eliminated by Commonwealth control and the acquisition of land is already feasible under the Lands Acquisition Act 1955-66. Fifthly, a national policy, not a field by field or a company by company approach, is desirable. Indeed, I would go so far as to say it is crucial. Sixthly, no company discrimination against people or towns is wanted. 
Besides the more mundane building and maintaining of pipelines, the Authority will carry out important policy functions with regard to buying and selling petroleum products. A fine line must be drawn between the rights of the exploration companies with thenhuge investments based on export hopes, and those of the Australian consumer. Ultimately, of course, the Government will directly go into exploration itself. And so it should. France, Great Britain, Japan and Indonesia do, so why should not Australia? It would be as great a mistake to undercharge the consumer, I suggest, as to overcharge him. Petroleum products are becoming scarcer and must be consumed wisely and valued correctly. 1 was interested in the remarks that the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  made about the United States. I would like to make the humble observation that whilst 1 agree that there is a world energy crisis, if one takes the time to analyse the situation in the United States one finds that a high proportion of oil, gas uranium and fossil fuel is owned and controlled by multi-national corporations. 
The second point to be noted is that a high proportion of research expenditure in the United States in recent years has been in the area of nuclear power and a very minute proportion has been in MHD - that is the conversion of fossil fuel whereby one can reduce the pollution content. Had the multinational corporations diverted their money into research in this area they could nave conserved for the United States a far greater proportion of that country's oil and gas. It is my humble belief that if one takes the time to study this matter there is a vast dichotomy between the figures that are tabled by the United States multi-national corporations and those given by the Bureau of Mineral Resources in the United States. It is perfectly obvious what the multi-national corporations in the United States have done and have persisted in since the agreement was reached under which the National Fuel Commission operates in the United States. They pushed a public relations exercise across the board in the United States in the hope that it would force the American Government to decontrol the price control structure in that country. But they did not go far enough. They were very wise not to go far enough to force the Federal Government in the United States to take a hand. 
The point I am trying to make is simply this: The situation in the United States could have been alleviated to a marked degree had the national government taken a far deeper interest in the energy problem that currently faces that country. Its failure to do so has put the United States in a position where today its natural gas and particularly its crude oil reserves have reached crisis proportions. This country must never be placed in that situation. The United States may have valued its natural gas too cheaply as compared with other fuels. Natural gas may be cheap to supply, but it is not cheap to replace when the wells give out. I have suggested to the Minister and have made submissions to him to the effect that this country would be well advised to devote a high proportion of its research expenditure to the alternative of long term solar energy. In the world there are 3 important basins - in Central Australia, the Sahara and Northern India. If solar energy becomes economically viable it can be converted to liquid hydrogen which can be pumped throughout Australia by duplicating or utilising the national grid that is set up for natural gas. The national Pipeline Authority should have a policy not only with respect to natural gas but also for the possible alternative energy source - solar energy. Solar energy and nuclear power must not be forgotten simply because Australia is late in developing its natural gas. 
I conclude on this point: When the people of Australia realise just how important it is for a nation to control its resources, whether they be oil, gas, uranium or fossil fuel, in the national interest and in terms of the world energy crisis, the Government must be in the position to act in the national interest and, more importantly, in the international interest. I was rather surprised to hear the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Viner)  talk about individuals and ordinary corporations. It was found in the Middle East that the countries concerned would never get an increase in their royalty payments if the fields were permitted to be carved up by multi-national corporations. As a result of the unity that resulted from the formation of the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries, the Middle Eastern and North African countries have, for the first time, been able to get a greater return from their crude oil than had they remained  as 
Individual entities. I support the Bill. I commend the Minister and the Government. 
I rise to support the Bill. The issues raised by this Bill have been frequently canvassed in this House. Today I propose to offer a number of reasons why it is imperative that the legal status of Australia's off-shore areas be resolved once and for all, and to point to some of the very great legal complexities which hinder a ready solution and which make effective action almost impossible before there is a solution. Two sorts of problems are thrown up by the legal considerations relating to Australia's offshore areas, both of which have been well dealt with before in this House and which therefore merit only brief consideration from me. The first relates to the problems of zones of jurisdiction in Australia's off-shore areas. There are 3 sorts of maritime regime here. Firstly, there is the area of internal waters - that is waters within certain sorts of bays and gulfs - where jurisdiction is now exercised by the States, but to an uncertain extent. The present Bill makes it possible that there will also be some areas of Commonwealth internal waters located immediately outside State internal waters. 
Secondly, there is the territorial sea, over which it was assumed until recently the States had jurisdictional rights, but which under this Bill is subjected to Commonwealth control. The territorial sea is a coastal belt extending from the low water mark and the exterior limit of internal waters out to a distance which Australian practice has fixed at 3 miles. International practice has not been able to reach a satisfactory consensus, but seems to be moving towards agreement of 12 miles. The present Bill leaves the Executive to fix a distance. Thirdly, beyond the territorial sea there is the high sea in which international law, such as it is, reigns supreme. The problem created by these various zones is that around a complex coastline the regime of law can alter from internal waters to territorial sea to high seas and back again with bewildering frequency. Federalism compounds the problem because a change in zones can mean the change from Commonwealth to State control and vice versa, and around the coast near State borders there is also the problem of change from State law to State law, and indeed British law. 
Is it any wonder that we are breeding a race of neurotic fishermen and confused navy commanders, or that ships off the Australian coast can pollute with impunity? The present Bill goes part of the way to resolving these problems, but unfortunately the difficulties created by a complex coastline, with its various indentations, islands and reefs, most probably cannot be solved unless whole areas were to be enclosed or 'squared off' and such action would surely be adversely received in the international arena. 
The second sort of problem relates to control of offshore resources. This Bill vests sovereign rights over the continental shelf in the Commonwealth, to the limit which the Geneva Convention permits. I make no apologies to this House for that. As we all know, we live in a federal system. This means that within our municipal system of law, responsibilities are divided between 2 sorts of politics. On an international plane, Australia is recognised as an independent State and therefore has international obligations. The dilemma thrown up by a federal system is that sometimes the powers and responsibilites conferred on the 2 sorts of politics by firstly the international system, and secondly the municipal system, do not coincide. 
With this lack of coincidence comes an almost impossible situation for Australia in international affairs. On the one hand, Australia is looked to by other States to undertake certain international actions and, on the other, the only government recognised internationally as representing Australia has no municipal power to execute those actions. Queensland, Australia and Papua New Guinea are classic examples. The High Court appears to have recognised this problem in part in its interpretation of the external affairs power. Likewise our founding fathers were aware of the problem when drafting the Consi tut ion, and generally attempted to locate external or national power in the Commonwealth. However constitutional draftsmen are not seers, and can only be expected to make allowances for conditions as they experienced them. Conditions, national aspirations and even some fundaments of Australian federal existence have changed considerably since 1900. 
In my opinion, it is for instance, ludicrous today that having overcome competition between the States for international loan funds, we still have the possibility of States competing against each other to attract capital to develop their resources, including off-shore resources, frequently to the detriment of Australia as a whole. The only way Australia as a nation can benefit is to present a united front. It is ludicrous that today when the energy crisis is a major global problem, possibly the global problem for the rest of the century, with the horrible spectre of trade wars before us once more, Australia has difficulty in rising above the level of federal-State bickering to develop a national policy. 
Our federal system may be looked at in 2 ways. It may be viewed either as a loose confederation of quasi-independent states, or as a national federation. I do not apologise for viewing it as the latter. Or if I may paraphrase something which the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  said on another occasion in this House, I am an Australian first, and then a South Australian. And it is about time we acknowledged that our Constitution should no longer be used as an obstructive document, which can be quoted by any partisan politician for his own purposes. Our Constitution must be clear, dynamic and forward looking, and it must, in my opinion, serve the purpose of an Australian federation of States, and not preserve a confederation. If our Constitution cannot serve us like this, it must be changed. If the law exists to frustrate common sense, then the law must be changed. 
In light of what I have just said, I propose to look at some of the difficulties created for the Commonwealth in matters concerning offshore areas by our Constitution - difficulties which unfortunately may not be entirely cured by the present Bill. Starting not with part II of the Bill, but with the innermost region of off-shore waters, we are confronted by the problem of so-called internal waters - the bays, gulfs, estuaries, ports and harbours around our coast. I emphasise initially that these waters have a singular legal character. Both in international law and our own municipal system, they are for legal purposes assimilated with the dry land. That is and again I emphasise it, because it has important legal consequences they are as much part of the land territory as the sites of our capital cities. 
The present Bill purports to fix the limits of internal waters as they were at 1st January 1901. Quite obviously this is done with 2 legal assumptions in mind. Firstly, Section 123 and indeed also Section 128, which is the general referenda section, of the Constitution, prevents the Commonwealth from altering the limits of any State, including the maritime limits, without a nationwide referendum. Therefore the Bill purports to fix limits and not alter them. With this first assumption I think I would agree. Secondly, the Commonwealth in its attempt to set limits on internal waters without altering any boundaries, has purported merely to fix the limits of internal waters as they were at Federation. The legal assumption here is that Federation in some way froze the limits of the States at 1901. With this assumption I do not necessarily agree. 
The legal arguments are quite complex, but briefly they appear to be as follows: Firstly, the Imperial instruments establishing the colonies, by prerogative or legislation, except in the case of South Australia, do not make any reference to bays and gulfs, when defining colonial boundaries. Since internal waters were treated as part of England by both the common law and British executive practice - although to different extents - before the establishment of the Australian colonies, it must be presumed that such waters become part of the colonies. This is expressly stated in the case of South Australia in the Letters Patent of 1834, although in all cases their extent is uncertain. 
Secondly, it is possible that the extent of internal waters was defined either by customary international law or the common law. The standards for enclosing internal waters in both these systems have varied and evolved over many years. If it is decided that a contemporary standard in customary international law was not meant to be the basis for enclosing internal waters in the Australian colonies, we must look to the presumption that the common law was intended to define what was a legal bay or gulf. The common law of England, up to the date of settlement of the Australian colonies, had used various tests to legally enclose indentations. From the time of settlement the common law as developed in Australia takes over the task of definition. In simple language all this means is that a court of law in Australia must be the final arbiter of what constitutes the internal waters of the Australian States. Once a court has arbitrated, then the Commonwealth may act to fix the limits of internal waters, according to the court's decision. But any attempt to pre-empt a court's power to decide the issue can only be regarded as an attempt to alter the boundaries of internal waters from some theoretical or posed standard, contrary to Section 123 of the Constitution, and will be ineffective in preventing litigation on whether or not there has been an alteration. 
Thirdly, there seems to be no clear and explicit reason from the terms of the only 2 relevant Acts - the Colonial Boundaries Act 1896 and the Austraiian Constitution - to suggest the boundaries of Australia's internal waters were frozen at 1901. It is conceivable that the extent of legal bays was not frozen at their common law extent in 1900, but has continued to alter with alterations in the common law since 1900, and therefore the extent of internal waters within a State is today simply what a common law court says it is today, using today's common law criterion or definition of a bay - that is, it is all up to the judges. 
On the other hand, if it is true that the extent of internal waters was fixed at 1900, as this Bill seems to assume, the problems are a little different. It becomes necessary to ascertain what were the limits of internal waters at 1900. This must be done by court decision before this Parliament can legislate to fix those limits. A good argument can be made out for saying that the limits of internal waters in 1900 were those established at the time of settlement of the colonies, and it can further be argued that at the time of settlement, despite the uncertain state of the common law which was moving from variations of a range of vision test to an ad hoc test which enclosed each particular bay or gulf on its merits. Despite all this, it can be argued that British practice at this time was to enclose indentations with very extensive closing lines, up to 65 miles long as in the case of Shark Bay in Western Australia, across the headlands of the indentation, if there were adequate penetration into the coast. If this can be established to be the case, the Commonwealth might be foolish to abandon enclosure of such extensive waters, because under the Geneva Convention, we would not be permitted to firstly enclose as many 'bays' because the 19th century British legal definitions of a bay would not appear to have been as demanding as the semi-circle formulation in the Convention; and secondly, to enclose bays up to such widths, because the maximum closing line permitted by the Convention is only 24 miles. I have perhaps dwelt for too long on the problems of internal waters, but they are quite obviously very complex legal problems; and the considerations which I have canvassed will at some stage have to be faced by our courts because of the singularly unhelpful nature of our constitutional structure. 
The next Federal problem in off-shore areas is the question of sovereignty in the territorial sea. The legal problems here are equally complex. The primary and fundamental question for the lawyers is, apparently, the nature of the coastal States' interest in the territorial sea. If the territorial sea were to be assimilated with the land territory and also held to belong to the States, the Commonwealth, in attempting to gain control over it, once more would be faced with the problem of infringing section 123 of the Constitution. If the territorial sea is found in law not to be equivalent to maritime territory but somehow just a bundle of rights over a sea area, then the section 123 problem might be avoided. Of course, if this Bill is found simply to be enforcing the status quo - that is, declaring the territorial sea, whatever its legal character, to be within Commonwealth sovereignty when that is already the case - then no problem can arise. But, as has been emphasised many times in this House, only a court of law can decide the question of original possession of sovereignty in the territorial sea. 
I must admit to being pleased that this Bill vests sovereign control over the territorial sea in the Commonwealth, as I think this will lead to uniform control over activities such as pollution in off-shore areas. However, one problem which has been pointed out to me disturbs me somewhat. It is probably quite desirable that the States have some power to regulate activities in the territorial sea which closely affect their territory. However, if the territorial sea is to be regarded as a place acquired by the Commonwealth under section 52 (1) of our Constitution, then, according to a recent decision of the High Court in Worthing v. Rowell, State laws are excluded from that place. According to my advice, the Commonwealth Places (Application of Laws) Act 1970 will not cure the defect - at least, not so far as the laws passed specifically for the territorial sea are concerned. Apposite to this I make reference to section 122, which relates to territorial powers, insofar as it applied to the acquisition of the Ashmore and Cartier Islands in Western Australia. 
Naturally, a decision about ownership of the sovereignty of the territorial sea does not resolve the quite separate problem of ownership of rights in and over the continental shelf. Whilst the territorial sea and internal waters involve considerable legal problems and demand simpler and more efficient legal regulation, in my view control over the continental shelf, especially outside the territorial sea, is the real point that we have all been arguing over these many months. The name of the game is money or, to put it less crudely, national resources. Apart from the question of fishery resources in the maritime zones off our coast, the crux of this Bill is to vest control over the tremendous resources in the continental shelf in the national Government. 
Before I conclude, let me make what 1 consider to be an extremely pertinent observation and one that surely ought to exercise the minds of honourable members in both this Parliament and the State Parliaments. Even when Britain gave a good deal of independence to its colonies in the nineteenth century, it recognised that the control of shipping and like matters required uniform control to be effective, efficient and successful. So, down to the present day we have the position that at least some of the rules relating to maritime matters in Australia have continued to be controlled by the British Merchant Shipping Acts which cannot be amended or repealed by our State Parliaments in many cases without the approval of the British Parliament. I draw the attention of honourable members to the recommendations contained in the report of the Joint Committee on Constitutional Review of 1960, in particular in the navigation section dealing with this aspect. This longstanding recommendation that uniformity is desirable, confirmed by the fact that the States themselves have not moved to change the situation, surely shows that at least a set of uniform laws is needed for the control of waters on the Australian coast. 
I repeat what I said earlier: The crux of this Bill is to vest control over the tremendous resources in the continental shelf in the national Government. Of course, secure and confident action can only be taken once the extent of control over the other zones - that is, the territorial sea and internal water - has been resolved, because only then can leases be accurately and safely granted and located. But, once this is done, the Commonwealth should have unimpeded control over the seabed resources. I support the Bills. 
 I rise to support the 3 Bills. Two of the Bills, the Insurance (Deposits) Bill and the Life Insurance Bill, are consequential measures. I want to direct my remarks to the Insurance Bill itself. I view these Bills with a sense of achievement. In March 1970, 3 years ago, I drew the attention of the House to the crucial need for a Federal Act to establish a comprehensive system of supervision of general insurance. Throughout the last 3 years I persistently attacked the preceding Liberal Government for its failure to enact such legislation. It clearly failed to face up to its constitutional responsibilities. The implementation of this legislation has fallen to the Australian Labor Party Government, and the current Bill which was introduced last Thursday week indicates that the Government has acted responsibly and quickly to plug part of the legislative gap. Over the preceding 23 years all tory governments have failed to enact appropriate legislation to regulate the insurance industry. The failure to act has had disastrous consequences. We have witnessed over the last 3 years the collapse of no fewer than 16 companies, involving millions of dollars.  I  seek leave to have incorporated in Hansard a schedule which sets out the insurance companies which have gone into liquidation since July 1970 and the money involved. 
Has the Minister for Minerals and Energy noted the intervention of the Victorian Minister for Fuel and Power in the Senate debate on the Pipeline Authority Bill? 
1 address my question to the Minister representing the Attorney-General. It supplements an earlier question relating to the urgent need for an Australian Companies Act. I am grateful to the Minister for his written reply. Whilst I welcome the AttorneyGenera/'s assurance that the Australian Companies Act will be tabled shortly and that steps are in hand to provide adequate regulation of the securities industry, I ask: As a further and equally important step in view of the increasing importance of the corporation in our society and the fact that no basic study of the corporation's role has ever been conducted by an Australian government, will he take steps to appoint a broadly-based independent committee to inquire into, firstly, the philosophy of company legislation appropriate to our needs; secondly, the activities of corporations, in particular multi-national corporations; and, thirdly, their responsibilities to and impact upon our community? 
I address my question to the Treasurer and preface it with a reference to the ever growing proportion of financial advances being made by institutions outside the scope of Australian banking legislation, amounting to 55 per cent of cash receivables as at June 1972. I ask: Considering important court decisions both in Australia and Great Britain, does the Treasurer not consider that it is now established that the Government has power under either the banking or corporation powers of the Constitution, or both, to exercise direct control over finance companies and/ or similar money lending institutions? Will he take steps to exercise these powers at an early date? 
I ask the Minister representing the Attorney-General: Is it a fact that the Australian Government in areas under its direct control - that is the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory - is taking direct action to combat the world wide problem of inflation? Is it also a fact that the Government is prevented from taking similar action to protect the rest of the Australian population from soaring prices because the structure of our outmoded Constitution leaves power over prices with the 6 States instead of with the nation's Government where it belongs? Will the Minister inform the House of the steps that the Government will take to rectify this and other distortions at the constitutional convention to be held in Sydney next week? 
I address a question to the Minister for Tourism and Recreation. Is it a fact that in the past month I have made repeated representations to the Minister on behalf of the Australian Paraplegic Association for an allocation of funds? Can he now indicate what action he intends to take on its request for financial assistance? 
can settle this at the Law of the Sea conference. 
Let me turn to the position in the United States. There was a whole series of important United States oases in the nineteenth century - both Supreme Court and State courts - from the turn of the century, establishing that internal waters, that is bays and gulfs, were part of the territory of the various States to the extent permitted by English common Jaw. The important Supreme Court case of Pollard's lessee v. Hagan in 1845 established that States entering the Union subsequent to the original federation were admitted on an equal footing and therefore acquired the same sovereign and proprietary rights in tidal lands and submerged lands under internal waters. 
The litigation in the Supreme Court since 1947 has not controverted the fundamental underlying principle, namely, State rights to submerged lands under internal waters. However, the Supreme Court has seen fit either to ignore its previous decisions on the extent of internal waters or to regard them as inapplicable. More modern and internationally convenient definitions have been adopted. It is most doubtful that this neglect of judicial history would be possible in an Australian court, especially if it is found that the States' boundaries were somehow frozen at colonial inception or at federation. In such a case judical alteration of State boundaries, such as has been countenanced by the United States Supreme Court since 1947 could not be legally tolerated. However, it should also be pointed out that the United States Constitution does not appear to have equivalents to sections 123 and 128 of our Constitution, which impede Federal Government action. 
There have been frequent United States decisions establishing national property rights in the territorial sea, but until the United 
States v. California case in 1947 it was not clear how these rights were divided in the federation. It should be pointed out however, that in that case the Supreme Court was motivated by political consideration - the paramountcy of the Federal Government in international affairs - which might not be available to our more legalistic High Court. In substance the Supreme Court was able to say that property rights in the territorial sea had coalesced with political rights, that political rights must vest in the national Government, and therefore property rights must too. 
The Truman Proclamation in 1945 catalysed legal interest in the exploration of off-shore resources being undertaken at that time in the United States. It probably sparked the litigation in the Supreme Court to adjudicate between State and Federal rights. One of the commonly known submerged lands cases was the United States v. California in 1947. This was the first of 3 United States Supreme Court cases - the others were the United States v. Texas and the United States v. Louisiana both in 1950 - involving rights in the submerged lands underlying the ocean and outside the internal waters of California, Texas and Louisiana. The litigation began in 1945 following a controversy between the United States and several coastal States beginning in the 1920s with respect to the issuing of oil and gas leases over submerged lands by the United States. 
The California case, a test case to determine the extent of respective rights, was instituted by the United States against the State of California in the original jurisdiction of the Supreme Court. In summary, the result of the case is expressed in this form: This case was necessary and inevitable, given valuable submerged lands, and 2 governments maintaining conflicting proprietary interests in them. It is an adjudication which cannot be avoided in any federation. However, it is suggested that our rather legalistic High Court will have to search for an historical vesting of rights in the territorial sea in one of our federal polities, rather than hand down a decision overtly motivated by political consideration. 
I turn to the Louisiana case. Prima facie, Louisiana's claim for sovereignty over the territorial seas was directly parallel to that of California and therefore warranted litigation only if it was likely that the Supreme Court would overrule its previous verdict. Both 
States were acquired from foreign countries - California from Mexico and Louisiana from France. Both were admitted to the Union after its formation and both were admitted- on the customary 'equal footing'. However, Louisiana relied on one important differential. It had, by statute in 1938, extended its seaward boundaries to 27 marine miles from the shoreline. It was upon this action that Louisiana relied to set it apart from the considerations which pertained in the California case. In summary, this litigation arose because the State of Louisiana had unilaterally laid claim to a 27-mile territorial sea prior to the decision in the California case. The Supreme Court held unilateral extension without the imprimatur of national approval to be of no effect. There has been no such unilateral extension by an Australian State, nor does it seem possible that an Australian State would have power so to alter its boundaries. 
I turn to the Texas case, the decision in which was handed down by the Supreme Court on the same day as its decision in the Louisiana case. The problems in the case of Texas were somewhat different because of its unique pre-admission status. Of the 37 States that have joined the Union subsequent to its formation, Texas was alone an independent nation immediately prior to statehood and did not first pass through territorial status. In these circumstances, Texas quite naturally argued that, as an independent nation, it had acquired paramount rights in the territorial sea equivalent to those awarded to the United States by the Supreme Court in the California case by virtue of its national external sovereignty. 
However, once again the Supreme Court was not easily swayed from its path of national paramountcy. It invoked the 'equal footing* clause against Texas by holding that irrespective of its pre-admission status upon admission to the Union its rights in adjacent maritime areas were no greater than those of any other coastal State. That case may be summed up in this way: This litigation arose first because of a unilateral boundary extension by Texas and, secondly, because of the unique independent republican status of Texas prior to admission to the Union. Neither consideration is material in the Australian Federation; nor is the Supreme Court's argument in rebuttal of Texan claims that the 'equal footing' clause be invoked. 
In 1952 there was the Supreme Court Master's Judgment. This was a case in which internal waters were defined. It should be noted that in the California case the United States complaint excluded tide lands as well as lands under internal navigable waters from the controversy of disputed ownership. The Supreme Court held in 1947, by a vote of 6 to 2, that the United States and not California had paramount rights in the territorial sea and, incident to this, full dominion over the resources of the appurtenant seabed. While this judgment settled the basic division of legal rights over submerged lands, it made no precise demarcation of the Federal-State boundary. The Court adverted to this omission and commented that it would be more appropriately resolved at a later date. 
In January 1948 the United States Government filed a petition for the entry of a supplemental decree seeking an adjudication. The Supreme Court rejected this submission but was unable to specify what particular segments should be determined. The Special Master was appointed with instructions to determine what segments of the coast 'called for precise determination . . .' One of the clauses directed to the Master read: 
Are particular segments in fact bays or harbours constituting internal waters and from what land marks are the lines marking the seaward limits of bays, harbours, rivers and other internal waters to be drawn. 
The Special Master filed his report with the Supreme Court in October 1952. It was particularly significant in two respects. First, the Master looked to international law, and to United States policy on it, rather than to any common law or internal constitutional criterion. Secondly, the Master treated United States rather than Californian practice, evidenced usually by nothing more authoritative than policy statements, as decisive. The Master considered that: 'On the question of constitutional law propounded I agree with counsel for the United States that when the action of a State is actually contrary to action by the Federal Government the action is invalid for the reason that it is in conflict with the superior authority of the United States'. 
In reaching 'this conclusion, the Master was most probably influenced by Supreme Court decisions with regard to the territorial sea to the effect that the States could not, by extending their seaward limits, commit the Federal Government internationally to a greater extent than it had committed itself. In summarising that particular case, once again this sort of adjudication is inevitable in any federation, given the need to define the baseline from which the territorial sea is to be measured, and given the concept of internal waters which are part of the land territory for legal purposes. Again, however, it is submitted that in the Australian federation it is unlikely that a court will be able to incorporate current international criteria into the Australian constitutional structure. Rather, more traditional principles will have to be looked to. Furthermore, it is doubtful whether the Commonwealth will simply be able to apply the Geneva Convention to the States because of section 123 and section 128 of our Constitution, and perhaps because of more general fundamental constitutional principles. However, the problem of defining the location of the baseline for the Australian territorial sea will probably prove the most difficult task confronting Austraiian courts dealing with off-shore legal problems. Extensive and complex coastlines present no easy solutions. 
In 1953, as the honourable member foi Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  said, the U.S. Congress passed the Submerged Lands Act In effect, the Act reversed the Supreme Court decisions in United States versus California and Louisiana cases. Thus what was once settled became unsettled once more. The Submerged Lands Act had a very simple goal, to reverse the previous Supreme Court decisions on the territorial sea. However it has probably raised as many difficulties as it solved, and has proved a breeding ground for litigation. The Act has been before the Supreme Court on 4 occasions. The first was a challenge to its constitutionality. The latter have been related to interpretation of boundary provisions in the Act. X do not intend to deal with each of the cases. In conclusion I would like to refer to the classic Louisiana boundary case of 1969. Essentially this case raised the same problems as the second Californian case, that is, the problem concerning the meaning of 'coastline' in the Submerged Lands Act 1953 and the location of the seaward limits of internal waters. Louisana claimed to have found some points of distinction between its case and that of California. 
In summary, Louisiana brought the instant litigation, first, because it was attempting to argue that the Supreme Court's adoption in the Californian case of definitions in the Geneva Conventions on internal waters was not generally binding on all States; and second, because it hoped that the inland waterline would have some boundary significance and thereby distinguish it from California. The first point is tenuous, the second can have no relevance in Australia. It is totally irrelevant for honourable members opposite to come to the conclusion that because there has been extensive litigation in the United States it will likewise happen in Australia. I say that for the following reasons. There are many factors which set the United States offshore resources legal controversy apart from the Australian constitutional situation. There are some indirect Federal parallels, but also many points of distinction. There is no need for similar extended and commercially unsatisfactory litigation in Australia. 
I refer now to some of the factors which distinguish the 2 systems. Firstly, it is probable that the Australian States maritime boundaries, encompassing internal waters and possibly also the territorial sea, were fixed either at colonial inception or at federation. This would involve an Australian court in an historical investigation such as the United States Supreme Court saw fit to ignore because United States boundaries were not so fixed. Secondly, there are many more component States in the American federation, with far more variegated and even colourful constitutional histories, than in the Australian federation where by contrast constitutional development has been fairly uniform. Thirdly, the role of our courts will differ from that of the United States Supreme Court. Our courts would pay no heed to politically convenient notions like federal paramountcy in offshore areas if this means contraverting clearly established legal rules. It is just not on. Fourthly, the only necessary parallels for Australia in litigation are the first California case which determined rights in the territorial sea and the Special Master's Report which decided upon the extent of internal waters. Certainly the determination of the precise, extent of internal waters will be a problem. But surely it is a problem already. After all, who can unequivocably declare at the moment precisely what bays and gulfs are part of the territory of the Australian States and hence from where the territorial sea is to be measured. I have not heard anybody, either here or in a State Parliament define that. 
The fifth point is that as yet we in Australia have no clear judicial decisions to overturn and no submerged lands Act to overturn them. This Act in itself has been the source of most of the United States litigation. The sixth point is that the problem of historic bays, as pleaded in the Louisiana Boundary Case probably will arise if it is found that a valid title can be acquired in municipal law by the historical process. On the other hand it might be that there is no need to refer to the historical process in municipal law. If a claim to sovereignty is made by legislation and there is power to pass such legislation, it will be binding without recourse to historical title. If historical title is relevant, it might mean lengthy investigation into the legal status of various bays and gulfs. This is unavoidable. Finally, there is no reason why there should be excessive and expensive litigation in Australia once the legal fundamentals of off-shore zones have been resolved. 
It should be pointed out that these legal fundamentals must be resolved irrespective of any Commonwealth legislation. Who knows where we stand at the moment? The Senate Select Committee on Off-shore Petroleum Resources said: 
The larger national interest is not served by leaving unresolved and uncertain the extent of State and Commonwealth Authority in the Territorial sea-bed and the Continental Shelf. 
This question has to be resolved. If it is not done now it will have to be done in the future if the possession of off-shore resources is to be settled for the benefit of the nation as a whole. I support both Bills. 
I address my question to the Prime Minister. Are multi-national corporations a target of investigation by United Nations committees set up at the instigation of developing countries which are alarmed by the sway that multi-national corporations exercise over their economies? Did the Prime Minister at the Ottawa Conference of Commonwealth heads of government support the establishment within the Commonwealth Secretariat of a group which would, among other things, examine the roles played by multinational corporations? As Canada and Australia face an appalling density of foreign control in both the petro-refining and mining sectors of 74 per cent, 65 per cent, 80 per cent and 62 per cent respectively, and as the efforts of bothcountriesthroughtheirrespectivecor- porations - the Australian Industry Development Corporation and the Canadian Development Corporation - are attempts to break the power of multi-national corporations-- 
 I support both Bills. The Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill, as set up in 1970, was an attempt to buy back the farm. It was emasculated by the Liberal Party at that time. Frankly it was a puerile attempt. Now that the Government wants to give teeth to the AIDC the Opposition's attitude is to be expected. It is proposed that the scope of the AIDC be extended so that assistance is available to companies engaged in distribution, transportation and other activities related to such industrial development projects. The Corporation will also have a second major function, namely, that of securing the greatest practical Australian participation in the ownership and control of companies engaging in these enterprises. The Corporation will be given the power to initiate particular investment proposals rather than having to wait for approaches from companies. Further, the Corporation will no longer be required to divest itself of shareholdings it acquires in companies it assists. 
The creation of the National Investment Fund gives the Corporation the means to raise funds, apart from government grants and funds assigned for projects deemed to be in the national interest, to enable it to finance Australian ownership as an equal primary objective along with development. In regard to foreign ownership, the 1972 Treasury White Paper on foreign investment in Australia reports that approximately 89 per cent of this country's capital requirements are met by internal Australian savings with the residual 11 per cent being overseas capital which has been directed to the most lucrative and most crucial sectors of the economy, namely, minerals, petroleum, automobile production," electronics, chemicals and pharmaceuticals. 
I am extremely interested in the crucial areas of mining and petroleum. The Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics report on overseas participation in the Australian mining industry for 1968 stated that overseas ownership of the mining industry was 44 per cent and overseas control was 58.1 per cent, as determined by value of production for 1968. The mining industry is made up of 3 major groups - metal mining, fuel mining and non-metal mining excluding fuel mining. This excludes clay mining. If one breaks the mining industry down into its component parts these components yield from the 1968 value of production the figures as given in Table I, which I seek leave to incorporate into Hansard. Its incorporation has been approved by the Opposition. 
The whole of the fuel resources of the United States ought to be rationalised and not left to private combines. This country will suffer the same fate. 

 Ms- JACOBI- If you take the Canadian situation- 
The honourable member would not understand the position. I will now deal with the Canadian situation. External control of the Canadian mineral industry had reached 65 per cent for the petroleum and natural gas industry it is 74 per cent. Canada established the Canadian Development Corporation with a view to breaking that nexus. In 1940 South Africa established the Industrial Development Corporation of South Africa Limited. That organisation was either the first or one of the first government corporations in the world. The objectives of IDC are: With the approval of the State  President  to establish and conduct any industrial undertaking and to facilitate, promote, guide and assist in the financing of new industries and industrial undertakings. The activities of IDC have no geographical limitation and the Corporation may perform any act 'whether within the Republic or elsewhere which may be necessary for, or incidental or conducive to, the attainment of its objectives. That is the position in South Africa. 
The Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  referred to the position in Italy and talked about the Institute of Industrial Redevelopment. I just want to make a brief reference to this matter. Obviously he forgot to mention that in Italy there are 3 sections which are involved in the control of foreign investment. The honourable member did not mention Ente Nazionale Idrocarburi. I will briefly refer to the role of ENI. As Italy is very poor in natural resources it was open to extortion by the multinational corporations who controlled the supply of those resources. The Italian Government set up ENI as a government company to regain control of fuel and energy supplies for the country. ENI was successful in obtaining oil supplies from the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics thereby breaking the American consortiums' hold over Italy. Since then ENI has participated in exploration for oil and gas in areas such as Nigeria and the Congo with marked success. ENI was able to negotiate natural gas supplies from Russia and Holland and it is having a transmission pipeline built to both countries. ENI is also prospecting in various areas around the world for uranium. Apart from the fuel and energy areas ENI has diversified into the chemical, textile and engineering industries. This government company is now competing profitably with a range of private industry. At least the Italians had some sense of responsibility in realising that their natural resources ought to be protected. 
AIDC is one instrument by which this country can preserve its natural resources and ensure that they are exploited constructively in the best interests of the nation as a whole. From the survey I mentioned it is apparent that the avenues for the AIDC and the Government to control the future investment of the multinational corporations in Australia are numerous. Unfortunately, control of the operation of future companies does not give the Government any say in the operation of existing overseas controlled companies. It does not do that. If the Government is to control the exploitation of this country's resources, especially if it intends to use the resources for diplomatic .negotiations, it is necessary for the AIDC to be able actively to control a significant sector of the mining industry. Let me conclude on this note: After 23 years of benign neglect in this country honourable members who are now in Opposition are responsible for the sell-out of this country's heritage for a mess of pottage. At the moment the Government has an uphill task to reverse that situation. It is my sincere belief that both these Bills will receive the support of the Australian public. I commend them to the House. 
Has the Treasurer noted the annual report of the New South Wales Consumer Affairs Bureau relating to the deplorable activities of the Australian Motorists and General Insurance and Ajax Insurance companies? Will he take immediate steps to have the allegations forwarded to the Insurance Commissioner for investigation? What progress has been made in determining the terms of reference for the setting up of an expert committee of inquiry into the general insurance  industry? What progress has been made in the preparation of the legislation concerning insurance brokers? 
 Because of the limitation of time and the need to deal with other parliamentary business I have been asked to cut my submissions down to 10 minutes, and I will do so. But within that 10 minutes I should like to address my remarks to the effect the planned grants will have in South Australia. I commend the Government and I commend the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham).  The measures that are outlined in the Bill are long overdue. But in South Australia the Mental Health Services Department has drawn up a program which will move to meet the anticipated appropriation provided under the Bill as it affects South Australia in the current financial year. It has listed 8 projects. They involve, firstly, a large industrial therapy workshop which will be one of the largest expenditures. It will be situated in the Unley-South Road area of Adelaide. It will simulate a working atmosphere and patients will be transported particularly from Glenside Hospital to the workshop. 
The Department envisages having a workshop in the community which will readily fill a large gap in the community services. A broad group of outpatients and inpatients who are retarded or suffering from a psychiatric disorder land are mainly unable to work at a sheltered workshop level will be treated. It will provide work which will fit the ability and social competence of the patients who work therein. The Department is trying to set up a work situation approximating normal conditions and will bring ex-patients and mentally handicapped people to the workshop and give them some form of training. The second project is the Invicta Organisation, which is a non-profit organisation, involving therapy workshops. There are 5 centres currently functioning; one in Strathmont. one at Hillcrest, one at Norwood and 2 at Glenside. The hospitals arrange various contracts for work to be done in this type of industrial therapy workshop. Moneys must go directly to the people working in the workshops. It is hoped to accommodate up to 100 patients in such a workshop. 
This program also fills a large gap in our community services at the moment. The course is to commence in 1974. It involves a mental health visitors course to commence next year. This is to train workers in assisting ex-patients who have been returned to the community and to give them the necessary support. It involves a training course of some 6 months; 3 months theoretical or academic training and 3 months practical training. While training the people work under a social worker. Their job is to work in the home with the ex-patients and to keep them there. If the rules are broken the ex-patients must return to the hospital. There are 12 to 13 people engaged in such a course, and it provides for the extension of an existing service. 
The third project is the Northcote Hostel for the intellectually retarded. It is situated on a large property at Grange in South Australia. It is designed to accommodate intellectually retarded patients who live in the community and whose parents for some reason or other need a holiday or some form of relief. It is very trying for parents to manage as in some cases patients are physically as well as mentally retarded. The hostel will accommodate up to 20 people and will in turn relieve a new hospital, Strathmont Training Centre, and reduce its waiting list. It will use some accommodation now available to relieve parents for holidays, giving very valuable community services to the parents of intellectually retarded people who are living at home at the moment. The cost of the hostel involves both property and equipment. The fourth project is alcoholic outpatients referral clinics. These will involve heavy expenditure for the Department. They will be available for anyone with an alcoholic problem who can attend on a walk-in basis and can also be used by the courts when dealing with alcoholics so that the courts can direct the alcoholics to this type of clinic. 
The fifth project involves a 20-bed hostel which is the intellectually retarded section at Ru-Rua Hospital in North Adelaide. It will be similar to the Northcote homes except that it will place people from Strathmont into the community. The people in the hostel will get community living conditions as against institutional living conditions. There is a definite need at the moment in South Australia for this type of hospital. There are already some very successful hospitals of this type. Some provide a home environment but there is a need for more Of them. The sixth project is Archway Port, which is at Port Adelaide. It is an alcoholic rehabilitation centre and is really to provide- an improved service in the Port Adelaide district. Patients can live in or can attend on a day basis. The idea is to effect improvements so that we can extend the service in that area. 
The seventh project is the District Mental Health Clinic which will involve a behaviour therapy unit at Port Adelaide. This is the type of centre which will be under a psychiatrist and a psychologist, where people can walk in off the street to be given assistance, support or even treatment on an out-patient basis. Those people who are in charge of the clinic will go into the difficult behavioural problems such as sexual behaviour, child behaviour and people acting up- the aggressive types. People may attend on a sessional basis or daily basis, depending on the degree of their problem. The eighth project is the Day Centre at Christies Beach. The centre includes an intellectually retarded section. This is the type of centre where children under school age who are intellectually retarded may receive toilet training and training in eating and playing. This training is aimed at allowing children to attend a special school when they are of school going age. The centre is somewhat similar to a kindergarten. It will consist of a house with rooms set up for the various types of training and the children will be able to become used to the various types of discipline. The Education Department in South Australia accepts responsibility for these children at school age,, but it will not accept them unless they are toilet trained. This centre will be set up to train children in this regard. The reason for suggesting that the Day Centre be established at Christies Beach is because this area being developed south of Adelaide will encompass a high density population in the very near future, 
I point out to the Minister that although South Australia's share of the appropriation may be $x, a program has to be designed for a greater cost because the State may not be able to follow up this program. For example, South Australia may not be able to get a 20- bed hospital. Therefore it is rather urgent that South Australia should get an allocation as quickly as possible. I understand that the Minister has already allocated a grant to Queensland and Western Australia. Therefore I ask the Minister to give urgent consideration to making an early announcement on an appropriation of funds for the South Australian 
Mental Health Services Department. I have discussed this matter with officers of the Mental Health Services Department in South Australia. They are delighted with the proposals which are set out in the Bill. As I understand it, the Bill will enable this Department for the first time to proceed with much needed community work which it would be impossible to undertake on a State basis at the moment. In conclusion I should like to pay a tribute to the Government and to the Minister for introducing this measure which will provide a tremendous incentive and will do much on a community basis for the thousands of unfortunate people who over the years have to some extent been neglected. I support the Bill. 
I rise to oppose the motion and to treat it with the contempt it deserves. After 23 years of Liberal- 
Country Party Government, this Government inherited a shambles. As a result of 23 years of Tory irresponsibility and complete abrogation of its national responsibility, this country was subjected to the greatest density of foreign plunder and the greatest density of sell out to foreign corporations in our history. What a legacy we have been left with! We have no balanced development of our mineral and fuel resources at all - not a shred of it. The natural resources of this country today are a national resource. This Government has tried to enunciate in the very brief period it has been in office a national fuel and energy policy through the Seas and Submerged Lands Bill, which the Opposition has frustrated, the Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill and the attempt to the maximum of our powers to conserve the oil and natural gas deposits on the north west shelf. 
We will make sure that the resources of the Cooper Basin are utilised in the nation's interest. Likewise, we will ensure that this happens at Palm Valley and in Bass Strait. One of the areas of conflict in the Redcliffs complex in South Australia is the conversion of liquid petroleum gas or butane to motor spirit. Does anybody in the Opposition seriously contest the stand of the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  on this issue? As I understand the conversion rate, if 340,000 tons is extracted with present technology we can convert that into nearly 264,000 tons of motor spirit. Does anybody seriously suggest that this country should forgo that wise policy for no other reason than to make sure that the multi-national corporations operating the petro-chemical plant at Redcliffs maximise their profits? Do we reduce their holding in the nation's interest or allow our resources to be exploited to the extent of the profit levels of the multi-national corporations? 
Let us now look at solar energy. I have made 3 submissions to the Minister on the need for greater expenditure in the field of solar energy. He is looking at those submissions at the moment. What did the previous Government do about this matter in 23 years? The question that ought to be answered, and I have yet to hear anybody from the Opposition answer it, is: Why is it that this nation can recruit from its own internal resources 89 per cent of its direct investment, yet not control its natural resources? The other 11 per cent comes from overseas. It is in respect of that 1 1 per cent investment in this nation's resources that I charge the Opposition, after being in Government for 23 years, with almost criminal neglect. Countries throughout the world for the first time have come to realise that no nation can afford to have its natural resources - in particular its minerals, fuels and energy - come within the purview of overseas corporations or companies. 
What Australian or what member of the Opposition can argue with the proposition that the ultimate responsibility for this nation's nonrenewable fuel resources must rest with the national government? Does anybody dispute that? Basically, what is wrong with the proposition that this nation should buy, control and distribute its oil and gas at the wellhead? Does anybody contest that proposition? The Opposition does. Is such a proposition out of step with the attitudes and policies of other governments whose countries are faced with exactly the same dilemma as this country? I was interested to read an article in the Financial Review' on 10 October last headed: A New Oil Game. Mossadeq's Legacy to Connor'. The article stated: 
The traditional system (of granting international oil companies) concessions is practically finished forever and new patterns are emerging. 
We will have to live with a new companygovernment relationship that accedes with the will of the producing countries and meets their basic nationalist aspirations. 
Was that said by the Minister for Minerals and Energy? No. It was said by James E. Atkins, who is a personal confidant of President Nixon and Ambassador-designate to Saudi Arabia, and was an extract from a recent speech. Countries throughout the world for the first time have come to take stock of the situation and are rapidly reaching the stage where any negotiations with those countries which control the vast fuel resources of the world's oil reserves - 60 per cent is in the Middle East - are either bilateral negotiations or negotiations with independent oil companies and not multi-national corporations. Let me clarify and confirm that statement. Japan is moving towards direct deal purchases, thereby reducing dependence on multi-national corporations which traditionally have supplied the bulk of the Japanese requirements. The Commission of European Communities proposed only last April that the European Economic Community, which is hostile to the multi-national corporations, designate private companies rather than multi-national corpora tions to represent it in deals with the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries. 
In this critical area there are several factors which I would like to mention and which the Opposition during 23 years in government failed to face up to. For the first time this Government is attempting at least to go about it constructively. The first factor is that energy is ubiquitous, pervasive and basic to all things. Its availability determines how much life can exist and what standard of living we can obtain as a country. Secondly, we are fully conscious of the fact that we will be heavily dependent on fossil fuel, particularly crude oil and natural gas, for the rest of this century. Thirdly, what is needed is a comprehensive policy. This Government will take steps - it will not reach for the panic button - to ensure that we have a balanced evaluation of our resources. We will not fall for the short-sighted policies which were characteristic of the previous Government for 23 years and of quite a number of overseas countries. Anybody who thinks otherwise is still living in the myth of 19th century laissezfaire liberalism. That is exactly the attitude the Opposition has adopted at this point of time. 
In the limited time I have at my disposal I want to make passing reference to some of the allegations that have been made by the Opposition. If there is one vital area in this country at the moment it is the petro-refining area, and if one takes the time to look at it one will reach some very astonishing analyses. Of all petro-refining installations in this country, which produce 706,750 barrels per stream day, we as a nation own, not control, 10.62 per cent. 
Never mind about that. You have had your say. 
I turn now to coal, in respect of which I have production figures for Queensland. I agree with the Minister that coal will be vital to us in the next decade. Yet, thanks to the Country Party Government in Queensland, overseas corporations control 88 per cent in that State. In New South Wales at least we control 36 per cent. If honourable members want a classic example of what I am referring to they should look at the bauxite deposit at Weipa. If ever there was a scandalous sellout by a Country Party government, it occurred in that State. In 1970-71 the company there produced 4.2 million tons and had a total revenue of $23.3m. From this the State of Queensland, on behalf of the people of Queensland, received a royalty of $412,443, or 1.8 per cent of the total revenue. 
I ask the honourable member for Petrie: Where are the extras in Queensland? There are no railway royalty charges. 
It never fails to astonish me,  Mr Speaker,  that the gentleman in Queensland who allows that situation can rush to a Premiers Conference and plead poverty, saying that he has insufficient money for education and social services, but will not make the same pleadings to his multi-national friends. The bauxite deposit at Weipa is controlled as to 45 per cent by the Kaiser company and as to 45 per cent by the Conzinc Riotinto of Australia; and, in order to overcome a public outrage in Queensland, there is 10 per cent public equity, which is what the Queensland Government did in respect of coal- 
I address a question to the Minister for Labour. Has he considered the proposal put forward by the Premier of Victoria for a Commonwealth-State conference to consider the current level of industrial unrest? If so, is he prepared to comment on the proposal? 
I rise to support the Bill. Having heard the remarks of the 3 speakers from the Opposition side in this debate, and having attended the Australian Constitutional Convention in Sydney, I am convinced that all that honourable members opposite can present to the House is a whole series of cliches. I would have hoped that we would have heard some logical argument in this debate. Regrettably, we have not. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  in introducing the Constitution Alteration (Simultaneous Elections) Bill, supported that legislation on 3 or 4 grounds. The major ground, apart from the fact that what was proposed was Labor Party policy and had been uttered at that Constitutional Convention so that plenty of notice was given of our intention, was that the legislation seeks to carry out a unanimous recommendation made in 1959 by the Joint Committee on Constitutional Review. That report recommended that the terms of senators should be changed from 6 years, as they now are, to 2 terms of the House of Representatives so that the elections for both Houses could take place simultaneously. I suggest that the reason for this recommendation is that a government elected by the will of the people on its policies could effectively and efficiently carry out those policies. At the moment, the Government, because of the composition of the Senate, is not in a position to do so. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  and the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  expressed the fears and dangers that could result from the adoption of the policy of the Australian Labor Party, which seeks a unicameral system of government. They suggested that it would be dangerous to create this system under our Constitution because such a system would have an adverse effect on the smaller States. I point out to the House that throughout the world there are unicameral systems of government and bicameral systems of government which rely on conjoint elections for both Houses; there are others that do not. Does anybody seriously suggest that any of those systems are less effective or less efficient than the Australian federal system? 
Let us look at those countries which have parliamentary systems which function on the basis of conjoint elections for their Parliaments. In the Republic of Ireland there is a House of Representatives and a Senate, and they come out at the same time. Does anybody seriously suggest that they are less effective or less efficient because of that factor, or that the lower House dominates the upper House or vice versa? In Belgium there is a House of Representatives and a Senate, and they have conjoint elections every 3 years. Is the Belgian Parliament less effective or less efficient because of that factor? Italy has a Chamber of Deputies and a Senate, and has conjoint elections every 3 years. Is that country's parliament less efficient or less effective? Does anybody in this chamber wish to suggest that? I am sure that the ambassadors of the 3 countries I have mentioned would be very pleased to hear such a suggestion about the parliaments of their countries. In Portugal the position is much the same. Mexico has a House of Representatives and a Senate. 
 Perhaps I would subscribe to that view. But I would certainly say that the Republic of Ireland, Belgium and Italy are reasonably efficiently governed. Let me list the countries with 2 Houses but not having conjoint elections. They are Austria, the Federal Republic of Germany, India, South Africa, Malaya, Canada, the Netherlands, Switzerland, Japan, Hungary, Cambodia, the United States, Kenya, Iran, Norway, Sweden, France and Northern Ireland. The Federal Republic of Germany has 2 Houses. They are not called out conjointly. But is the Government of that country any less efficient or effective because of that factor? Next I mention Canada. I assume that the only reason the 2 Houses in Canada do not come out conjointly is that the Senate is elected for life, the House of Commons every 5 years. Japan is in the same situation. 
 I am trying to make a case in answer to those people in this House who say that this nation will be doomed if we have simultaneous elections. They suggest that it is neither logical nor sensible; that it is utterly irresponsible. I suggest that the 1959 Constitutional Review Committee recommended what is in fact logical, that is, that the Australian Constitution should be altered to achieve the end which this Bill seeks. I noted that no honourable member opposite took the time to do a little research into what in fact was the attitude of our founding fathers. I have searched through perhaps the most important book on early federation, and that is the book written by Quick and Garran. Whilst I can find plenty of references to the structure of the Senate, the book throws very little light on the question of conjoint elections for both Houses. The official report of the National Australian Convention debates in 1897 contains specific reference to the fact that they ought to be held jointly. It is to be found in the speech by the 
Victorian Premier,  Sir George  Turner.  His  remarks were made in relation to a clause of the Commonwealth of Australia Bill, which suggested that elections for the House of Representatives should be on a four yearly basis and not a three yearly basis. The clause stated: 
Every House of Representatives shall continue for four years from the day appointed for the first meeting of the House, and no longer, but may be sooner dissolved by the Governor-General. 

 Sir George Turner had this to say: 
The Commonwealth Bill, as it was In the year 1891, limited the duration of the House of Representatives to three years, but the Constitutional Committee, for some reason, have decided to extend that term to four years. Now, I confess that I cannot approve of that alteration, unless some good reason can be assigned for it. To begin with, we have the Senate retiring at three years and six years, and it would be wise, so far as we are able, to keep the elections as near together as may be. If we have a Parliament retiring at the end of three years, unless there happens to be a dissolution at some particular time- 
The only way we can bring about simultaneous elections at the moment is to have a double dissolution. We have obviously forgotten that fact.  Sir George  Turner went on: which is not very likely to happen in connection with the Federal Parliament - we may allow an election for senators and for representatives at certain times to take place together, and by that means save a considerable amount of expense. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
 Before the suspension of the sitting for dinner I was referring to the attitude of our founding fathers to the question of the synchronisation of elections for both Houses. I believe that the references that they made indicated quite clearly that in the backs of their minds they thought it both logical and sensible to do so. Earlier I referred to the methods adopted in countries which have bicameral systems of Parliament where both Houses are elected conjointly. From listening to the prophets of doom on the other side it is quite clear that bicameral systems, if both Houses are elected conjointly, work effectively. As I recall it, amongst all his illogicalities, the one logical reason the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Sinclair)  advanced for the retention of the current balance of timing between both Houses was the sheer additional power that the Senate possesses beyond that of upper Houses in other countries where bicameral systems exist. May I suggest to the honourable gentleman that that is precisely the reason, the essence and the kernel of the need for the constitutional amendment. 
I am pleased to see that the honourable member for Moreton has returned to the chamber because I recall that one of his utterances was that, if this alteration were given approval by the people, it would mean that the Senate would in fact be a political victim of the Government. May I suggest that the current position is exactly the reverse. We are the victims of the upper House. I am inclined to the view that it was precisely for that reason in 1951 the then Prime Minister,  Sir Robert  Menzies, was likewise persuaded. He went for a double dissolution. I have promised to cut down my time in this debate because I think that somebody in the Opposition wants to speak for at least 10 minutes. 
Another important factor needs to be taken into consideration. My figures are a little different from those of the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  but the fact is that it is the economic question that ought to be considered when we talk of synchronising the elections for both Houses. Let us have a look at the costs involved. A conjoint election would cost between 55 per cent and 57 per cent of the total cost of separate Senate and House of Representatives elections. In 1970 the Senate general election cost $1,735,122. In 1972 the House of Representatives general election cost $1,980,132. The total cost of those 2 elections was $3,715,254. Therefore, an estimate for conjoint elections would be about 55 per cent to 57 per cent of $3m. In my view it is utterly ludicrous for the Opposition logically, constructively or persuasively to attempt to oppose the alterations sought. I believe that the Bill will receive the overwhelming support of the people. I believe that it will attract support for the reasons set out by the Prime Minister in his second reading speech. I support the Bill. 
I support the estimates for the Department of Minerals and Energy, The Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor),  who is at the table, has repeatedly drawn the attention of the nation to the world energy crisis or, rather, the crisis in hydrocarbons. He has implemented policies which are directed to a balanced evaluation of our minerals and energy resources. These policies are geared to be in both the short term and the long term in the best interests of the nation as a whole. In dealing with the real energy crisis, I point out that less concern would have been shown in the crisis in America were it not informed opinion that there will be, indeed, within a time of interest to most of us, difficulties in keeping up with the expanding need for energy if we are at the same time to eliminate the pollution caused by venting the products of burning fossil fuels into the atmosphere. Correspondingly, the threat of fossil fuels exhaustion has long been on the horizon. 
The reasons why this situation is now taken seriously are, first, that it has been expressed in a quantitative form. It is not a matter of the world's fossil fuels running out in the literal sense for perhaps 25 years; but the site of the remaining oil, which is under the sea or shale, leads to difficulties in extraction, so that the price will rise greatly. Correspondingly, much fossil fuel, particularly coal, contains sulphur, and this is costly to extract. Secondly, the date has been stated for the exhaustion of the indigenous supply at about the present price in constant dollars in the United States. That date is about 1985. The prospect of the United States placing 80 per cent reliance upon Arab oil involves prodigious dangers. An extraction of all world fossil fuels, including coal, is foreseen within 2 generations. 
The alternatives currently are atomic energy or solar energy. We ought to ask whether large scale atomic energy utilisation will be able to overcome low intensity radiation hazards. The whole question of nuclear technology as it applies to both reactor and waste disposal has not yet reached the level of meeting national accepted standards of safety. The position with regard to the degree of pollution of the atmosphere by atomic reactors is still contentious. Eventually it will probably depend upon how much one can pay to build in safety features, which of course affects the price of the energy produced. As the world for perhaps the first time is being made aware of the exhaustibility of its energy resources, particularly in fossil fuels, research upon solar conversion will increase in many parts of the world and become massive in some because of the growing doubt about the viability of the large scale use of atomic energy, and about pollution and the pollutive prospects of gasifying coal. There are 3 parts of the world which are ideally situated for solar energy conversion. They are the Sahara, north India and central Australia. So to that extent I feel we ought to exploit this advantage to its maximum. 
I noticed in the 'Sunday Mail' of 16 September a report that  Dr Lloyd  Herwig of the National Science Foundation of the United States of America has predicted that Australia could become the world's biggest energy rich nation in the 1990s through solar energy. It is reported that the Foundation has urged the Australian Government to proceed to a massive investment in solar energy development.  Dr Herwig  states that Australia can be a major exporter of energy by storing the excess solar energy which falls on Australia in the form of liquid hydrogen and exporting it as natural gas is exported. I believe that the solar energy potential of Australia is of paramount importance to this country and that solar energy will be overwhelmingly more valuable to us than perhaps our mineral resources. The solar energy potential of Australia is, of course, inexhaustible. 
Solar energy can supplement our existing and future energy requirements in 3 main areas. The first is in domestic and commercial hot water systems, house and office heating and cooling. In this area we lead the world, particularly through the research that has been carried out by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. The second area is in the provision for fuels for transportation from distillation and fermentation of plant material, and the third is in electrical power generation. Of these 3 possibilities the first is already economically viable but needs Government action to encourage installation of solar hot water systems. These have a higher initial cost than do other hot water systems, but because the fuel needed for their operation is free they become economic over a period of years. Some incentive is needed for the householder to install these units rather than a penalty as is presently imposed by the electricity generating authorities by not allowing cheap tariffs for booster heating. 
The wider use of solar units would also encourage industrial development by a large factor and would produce significant cost reductions. Further developmental studies are being carried out by the CSIRO and university departments, and will increase the effectiveness of such units. Research on the use of solar energy in the other 2 areas I mentioned is not so well developed, but research carried out so far indicates that significant contributions to our energy needs can be provided by solar energy. The potential of these energy resources is of such importance that a major research program is totally justified. At the present time several groups in Australia are working independently in this area with negligible funding for a project of this national importance. 
Groups are working on solar energy at the following universities: Queensland, New South Wales, Sydney, Australian National University, Melbourne, Broken Hill University College, and at the university in my own electorate, the Flinders University. Regrettably, much of the effort is fragmented. It badly needs coordination and direction. The Australian Government, and in particular the Minister for 
Minerals and Energy and the Minister for Science  (Mr Morrison),  have the resources to achieve co-ordination and direction. I take this opportunity to request both Ministers to call a national symposium of all interested groups to hammer out a national policy in this area. I feel that a national policy on solar energy is urgently needed. I take this opportunity to request both Ministers to allocate a modest sum in the vicinity of $2m per annum initially to fund research in this area. Close co-operation between the CSIRO, universities and industrial organisations will be required. This will be achieved if the development of solar energy is approached as a national effort. 
The work at Flinders University is directed mainly towards electrical power generation, and it is likely that four or five years of intensive research work is required before the full promise of this aspect can be properly assessed. Since it would then require a further 5 to 10 years for engineering and pilot plant studies to be carried out, this will take us into the latter part of the century before significant contributions to our power industry can be effected. By this time our oil and gas reserves will be tight and power costs will have escalated. This is why I believe that it is a matter of some urgency that we as a nation begin an extensive program of solar energy research now. I ask the Minister for Minerals and Energy to call a symposium of the groups involved in the area of energy research and to give urgent consideration to the allocation of the modest sum of $2m to ensure that this nation develops its potential and increases its energy options. I support the proposed expenditure. 
I support the Bill. After listening to honourable members opposite speak to this proposed alteration and to the other proposed alterations to the Constitution one sees that what they have said certainly reflects a completely negative approach. Their speeches were clouded in the usual crop of cliches and without substance. When honourable members opposite talk of constitutional reform they obviously mean that they are all for reform providing it changes nothing. In this context what they obviously mean is that we ought to put the clock back by strengthening the States at the expense of Commonwealth power. Maybe we should and maybe we should not, but before we limit the discussion of constitutional reform to what the rights of the States ought to be, surely we should debate whether we want to preserve the federal system at all. If we want to preserve the federation in something like its present form, we should at least spell out why we want to do that. 
I was interested in the remarks of the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  and of the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen),  particularly as they related to clause 2(c) of the Bill. One claimed that the passing of this legislation would result in the abolition of the sovereignty of the States, and the other referred to destroying the States and the powers they possess. The honourable member for Moreton quoted from Quick and Garran on this aspect, and I shall do the same. In discussing the concept of federal and national elements, this is what Quick and Garran had to say: 
Using 'federal' in its primary sense, the general difference between the federal and national elements of the Constitution of the Commonwealth may be thus defined. Those provisions are federal . . . which regard the people as inhabitants of States, separate and independent, within their respective spheres; . . . national which unite the people  . . and constitute them members of a common political group . .  which regard the people as the principal- source of supreme authority within the Commonwealth. 
Then they dealt with the Federal Convention of 1891, and one assumes that that is what the honourable member for Moreton referred to. They said that the Federal Convention was not a body composed of delegates elected by the people of Australia and that in the ratification of the Constitution of the Commonwealth there was an independent referendum in each colony. Then they said that the Constitution was, therefore, not adopted by the people of Australia, that was to be voting 'en masse' or at large, or in their aggregate capacity, but by the people of the future States voting in each State as inhabitants thereof. Then they said that if a general vote had been accepted as a test, the Constitution would have been triumphantly adopted on 3 June 1898. They concluded by saying this: 
The Commonwealth, however, is not constituted merely by a union of States; it is something more than that; it is also a union of people. 
That is more relevant to this discussion than the arguments advanced by the honourable member for Moreton. 
The other question that has been raised is the inflexibility of the Constitution particularly section 128. I was interested in what was said at the Constitutional Convention and in the reference 'by the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Viner)  to  Sir John  Cockburn, a famous South Australian. When dealing, in effect, with the referral provisions - they are apposite to the matter before the House - this is what  Sir John  Cockburn said shortly after federation: 
Constitutions tough, yet tractable, give the best promise of long and healthy life, the most deadly foe to organised growth is the atheroma which cannot yield without rupture. 
That typifies the Opposition's attitude. The alterations sought in this Bill are a constructive attempt to overcome the inherent bias towards rigidity in the existing provisions, and the apparent, almost unnatural, reluctance towards change endemic in the Australian electorate, while at the same time it reserves a role for the direct expression of the popular voice. In my view, the question of the procedures for constitutional amendment is the most fundamental issue. If this alteration is not supported either by this Parliament or by the people, all the rest is mere talk. Basically, section 128 of the Constitution provides that an amendment of the Constitution requires the assent of an absolute majority of the members of both Houses of Parliament, of a majority of electors in a majority of the States, and of a majority of electors overall. The requirement of approval by a majority of electors in a majority of electors in a majority of States is too stringent because this means that majorities in four out of the 6 States must approve - in effect, 2 States can veto the proposal. 
I am very pleased to note that the Liberal Party at least will adopt and endorse an extension of the franchise to the Territories. I noted the remarks of the members of the Australian Country Party in this House, but I am inclined to think that they are sycophantic because what they say in this House will be diametrically opposed in the other chamber. It will be interesting to see whether the members of the Country Party in the other place confirm the view that has been expressed 'by members of the Country Party in this House. 
I will not refer again to the 2 alterations sought to section 128 of the Constitution because they were dealt with in the second reading speech and by a majority of the speakers in this debate, but I shall make 2 observations on the proposed alteration. It retains the 2 basic 'principles embodied in section 128, and I think everybody would agree that they are worthy of retention. The first is that no ordinary, but an absolute majority, of the members of the Houses of Parliament is required to amend the Constitution; secondly, that the people have a voice in altering their fundamental law; and thirdly, some reference is made to the States, although it is submitted that this latter principle should at least partially give way to an approach which primarily considers the electorate as a national entity. 
I have said this previously, and I will repeat it: It is paradoxical to find that Switzerland, the country whose procedures most resemble Australia's - that is, an amendment passed by Parliament, by a majority of votes, in a majority of cantons and a majority overall - has had, in contrast to Australia, the greatest number of constitutional amendments. This probably indicates that it is not so much the Australian system but the Australian electorate which is inherently conservative. After all, with a Constitution so manifestly inadequate, popular reticence towards change cannot be merely an expression of satisfaction with the status quo. This alteration is critical. and it needs to receive the wholehearted support of all sections of the community if this nation is to progress in a constructive and meaningful way. If I may use a literary comparison, this innovation is to me as gruel was to Oliver Twist - I accept it but I intend asking for more. I can only reiterate the argument I advanced at the recent Constitutional Convention. 
It is admitted on all sides that our Constitution needs considerable amendment. It is no longer conducive to efficient, effectual or good government. Unless as a first step we can change the procedure for amending the Constitution, and unless we can make the procedures more flexible and positive, our chances of amending the rest of the Constitution are extremely slight indeed. At least we, as a Government, have taken the initiative for the first time in a quarter of a century to have public discussion on the Constitution and to give the people an opportunity to vote upon it. This stems undoubtedly from the recommendations of the Joint Committee on Constitutional Review in 1958 and 1959. One of the reasons for scepticism stems undoubtedly from the fact that there has been no real preparation on a large-scale to determine public opinion on changes to the Constitution. Another reason is the intransigence of both the voting public and the Opposition parties. 
We stand by, year after year, while vast amounts of taxpayers money are wasted on sterile disputes concerning the extent of Commonwealth and State powers while the taxpayers of the Commonwealth have to listen to Australian and State governments passing the buck back and forth. We stand by, year after year, while commercial interests play off one government against another to their own advantage. Why should we assume that we are stuck forever with a particular solution to a particular problem, a solution which was aimed at by our forefathers over 70 years ago? They had a definite objective in view, and that was the social and political integration of 6 communities into one community, for the common good of all. Admittedly they did not have much to go on. Federations are two a dollar these days but they were not that cheap in the 1890s. America and Canada were about the only two extant examples. To their credit they came up with a pretty good Constitution for their time, but surely they would have been the last people to argue that the result of their combined labours was to fix a codification of constitutional law which was to remain inflexible, immutable and binding upon all generations for all time. If that is what the Opposition contends in relation to the proposed change, it is utterly preposterous. The founders of Federation certainly would not have subscribed to that view. I fear that the chances are that the more attempts that we make at amendment under the present onerous section 128 procedures the more negative results we will get. Regrettably voting 'no' will become a sort of reflex action in the Australian electorate. It will become the norm and successive amendments will become harder to pass. Therefore it is imperative that we satisfactorily alter section 128 of the Constitution before we do much. 
I have been asked to restrict myself to 10 minutes speaking time and I will comply with the request. Let me repeat what I said last May in a debate dealing with our offshore legislation because I believe my remarks then are equally pertinent to this debate. I also want to make an observation on the Opposition generally. Having listened intently to Opposition speakers I am reminded of an assessment I once heard of the Anglo-Saxon electorate in South Africa. It was said that they talked progressive, voted liberal and hoped to God that the conservatives got in. 
It is a very good turn of phrase. It is very apposite. Unless the Parliament and the people support the Government's attempt to amend the process of amendment, then you are just so many men hoping to God that nothing out of the ordinary will ever happen. Let me conclude by repeating what I said last May. I said that our federal system may be looked at in 2 ways. It may be reviewed either as a loose confederation of quasi-independent States or as a national federation. I do not apologise for voicing it as being the latter. If I may paraphrase something which the honourable member for Moreton said on another occasion, I am an Australian first and a South Australian after. It is about time that we acknowledged that our Constitution should no longer be used as an obstructive document which can be quoted by any partisan politician for his own purposes. Our Constitution must be clear, dynamic and forward looking. It must in my opinion serve the purposes of an Australian federation of States and not preserve a confederation. If our Constitution cannot serve us in that way, then it ought to be changed. If the law exists to frustrate common sense, then the law must be changed. I commend the constitution alterations to the House. 
 I address my question to the Treasurer. It deals with reinsurance. Is the Minister aware that for 1971-72 non-resident direct insurance premiums and overseas reinsurance premiums reached a record high? As a large proportion of reinsurance business transacted in this country is eventually placed overseas, therefore, to reduce the dominance of overseas insurers in the Australian market and to cut the outflow of funds, I ask the Treasurer: Will the Government take steps to establish an Australian reinsurance corporation to compete on a commercial basis with overseas interests? 
I will take only a few moments because I know that there are honourable members on the other side who want to speak. I will just pass one simple observation. The honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Viner)  stated that there is not a shortage of minerals in the world. He would be well advised to have a look at the recent report by the United States Secretary of the Department of Mines. He will find there that in certain areas of minerals there is in fact a rapidly increasing world shortage equally as disastrous as the shortage of fuel and energy. I have received representations from a mining company in Adelaide and it is to that extent that I want to address my remarks to the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor).  The company says that in relation to present State leasing rights generally it agrees to the Authority providing that the Authority allows for the continued existence of individual explorers and developers in co-operation and competition on equal terms with the Authority, and that the Authority confines its activities to the Territories and off-shore areas or leases from the States and undertakes work commitments similar to the rest of the industry. 
I want to traverse the same ground that the honourable member for Stirling traversed but I hope that I will do so more briefly. The company contends that the statement by the Minister indicates that he recognises that powers over ownership and control of minerals rests with the States. The company has contended this for some time and has again called urgently on the Treasury to cease purporting to have powers under the Companies (Foreign Takeovers) Act over acquisition of properties by an Australian incorporated company and so clear the way for direct dealings with the Department of Minerals and Energy on the matter of Australian Government consent to the issue of a mining lease to a foreign company or to the Government's consent to a joint venture agreement with a foreign company. 
The company said in clarification that when the States issue an exploration licence to an Australian incorporated company which has been designated foreign under the 15 per cent to 40 per cent designation, the company felt that it may be desirable to seek the consent of the Australian Government. The Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  has stated: 
The exercise with State internal licence powers without due regard to the Australian Government's export control powers could place the licensee companies in a wholly unreasonable and unfair position. 
The company went on to say that in its opinion, if a project proved viable, a licence would be issued if the export was in the national interests at that time, whether or not the company was Australian controlled and had sought consent to the issue of an exploration licence or joint venture. The company could not imagine that the Government of the time in 10 to 15 years and 10 Ministers hence saying: 'Naughty boy, you did not seek consent at the time so you will not be issued with a licence'. The Minister recognises a position for foreign companies in the exploration and development of resources. He stated:  . . we are not unmindful of the contributions by overseas companies to our development in particular cases by the provision of capital and technology and commercial opportunity, but Australia will be the primary partner in such enterprises henceforth. 
This statement, together with pronouncements made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the Minister for Minerals and Energy further clarifying the Government's policy on foreign investments, should now clear the way for the Minister to decide his attitude towards the merits of individual joint ventures with foreign companies. This is a matter not only concerning the company to which I have referred but also I have received information that other companies are concerned. I ask the Minister for Minerals and Energy to clarify the points that I have raised. 
I rise to support the Bill. I commend the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  and the Government. By this Bill, after almost a quarter of a century of- complete abdication of responsibility by the previous Government, for the first time this country will have, to its credit, a national fuel, energy and minerals authority. I listened attentively to Opposition speeches. One salient thesis contained in this Bill which members of the Opposition should understand but which they fail to realise is that a national problem demands national policies. The honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  and his cohorts behind him persisted with their usual crop of futuile cliches. Believe it or not the honourable member for Farrer said that there is one simple choice facing this country at this time and that is to hand over all exploration and the superintendence of this country's fuel and mineral resources, lock, stock and barrel, to private enterprise. It is incredible in the world of today that anybody could put such a futile proposition. I will not cull over what members on this side of the House have already said, but I should like to quote from a recent publication of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. It states: 
As governments have sought greater control over the natural resources of their countries, there has emerged a . new form of legal relationship between the governments of oil producing countries and the bil companies. Instead of granting concessions to the oil. companies with the right to explore for and to  exploit petroleum on their own account, governments have vested these rights in their own national oil companies which have then entered into arrangements with the oil companies whereby the latter act as contractors, or operators, for the national oil company. These arrangement are to be distinguished from conventional contractural agreements in which the contractor is rewarded for his services by stipulated payments: His reward, and the scale of his reward, is entirely dependent upon the success of the venture; the contractor is required either to finance, or to introduce third parties to finance, the national oil company's share of development capital and operating costs; and the national oil company participates in the formulation of operating programmes and budgets. 
What has happened throughout the world, whether in Britain, France or Italy, is that since the middle 1950s governments have been exercising the superintendence of their fuel and mineral resources. However, it was not long ago in the House when the Opposition's shadow Minister for Minerals and Energy, the honourable member for Farrer, was castigating the Minister for Minerals and Energy and was referring to a Treasury White Paper dealing with world energy resources. He said: 
The Prime Minister seems to have swallowed hook, line and sinker the Minister's oft repeated statement about the impending energy crisis. This tale is so far from the truth that the Treasury had to put out a special booklet refuting these theories in what for the Public Service are very strong words. This booklet gives the lie completely to the Minister's statement. For example, it points out that whilst known world deposits of oil are sufficient for only 31 years usage at current rates, or 20 years' usage assuming the past rate of exponential growth is maintained, undoubtedly much more oil will be discovered. 
He concludes with this sweeping generalisation: 
If there is a problem it is a political and a price problem. 
I make one brief observation: Tragically for mankind, each country is not self-sufficient. If the entire reserves of the world could be pooled and could be equally apportioned, there would perhaps be some substance in the contention of the honourable member for Farrer but such a contention is both irresponsible and politically naive. 
Let us look at the position. What are Australia's reserves and needs? The total known recoverable reserves of oil are 1,560 million barrels; of natural gas liquids, 800 million barrels; of hydro-carbon liquids, 2,350 million barrels; and of natural gas, 38 trillion cubic feet. The recent report by the Australian Academy of Science titled 'Solar Energy Research in Australia' on the question of oil and natural gas said: 
Despite the large expenditure on searching for oil and the useful finds which have been made in Australia, our known oil reserves without imports are inadequate for even a decade. Unless a major field is discovered we will be faced with expanding our imports of oil at an ever increasing rate and at ever increasing prices caused by the world shortage, distribution problems and political actions. Our natural gas reserves, while large, cannot satisfy all our energy demands, particularly for transportation. It is also likely that natural gas prices will rise because of the world shortage. 
It has been said before and I reiterate that it is remarkable that when in government, the Opposition appropriated some $400m of taxpayers' money for which it could not show lc of equity. It is a national scandal. If we look at the petroleum subsidies that were dished out last October we find that Hematite Petroleum Pty Ltd was granted $175,948; West Australian Petroleum Pty Ltd, $108,840; Esso Exploration and Production Australia, Inc., $163,050; and, again West Australian Petroleum Pty Ltd received a sum of $264,240. Wapet which happens to be controlled by the Caltex company, also benefited. So we find that taxpayers' money was being dished out to multi-national corporations for which we could not show lc of equity. 
It is remarkable that honourable members opposite can persist with exactly the same philosophy as has proved disastrous throughout the world. They again want to perpetuate this policy and inflict it on this country. Honourable members opposite want to persist with a policy which would cause the same problems as exist in the United States. I have referred to this matter before and I should like to mention it again. America is in precisely the problem she is in today because she lacks a national fuel policy. A recent study in the United States showed that there are some 44 federal agencies which directly administer energy problems and 20 more which indirectly influence energy matters. These 64 agencies are scattered throughout 9 Cabinet departments, 14 independent agencies and the executive office of the  President.  If we take a breakdown of who, in fact controls the vast energy resources of the United States we obtain an intriguing result. We find that 84 per cent of the United States refinery capacity, 72 per cent of its natural gas capacity, 20 per cent of its coal production and 50 per cent of its uranium reserves are controlled by multinational corporations in the United States. It seems deplorable to me that we - and the public - should be induced to follow this disastrous policy. What has happened in the United States when faced with a world energy crisis particularly in petroleum and natural gas, and when that country may be forced to convert to coal is that many if its mines have run down. If it has to revamp those mines it will take up to 5 years and if it has to convert back to strip mining it will take up to at least 18 months, so the lead time to catch up could be equally disastrous. 
I want to make some reference to just how serious the international situation is. Where I part with the honourable member for Farrer is that there is beyond any question a world energy crisis. It is immaterial whether it stems from a question of quantum, from the need for a planned development or from the need for an international rationalisation in terms of distribution of resources, particularly crude oil. It is a fact; we will have to adjust our policies accordingly, and this Government's policies are oriented towards that. If we look at the world situation we find that oil consumption is rising. In 1972 world oil consumption was 2,590 million tons - 8 per cent more than in the previous year - but production rose by only 5.4 per cent. The rising prices stemmed directly from an imbalance between potential sources and uses of oil. On the basis of past trends, total energy demand will double between the 1970s and 1985 and total United States energy consumption between 1970 and 1985 is estimated to double from 33 million to 63 million barrels per day. If we take the European Economic Community, the consumption for the same period will rise by 93 per cent, and the consumption in Japan will rise by 156 per cent. 
Regrettably, oil reserves are not distributed evenly among all nations, nor is their thirst for it. More than 63 per cent of the total world power petroleum resources are located in the Middle East and that constitutes some 50 million metric tons or 60 per cent of world recoverable reserves. The United States has 6 per cent of the world reserves and socialist countries have 13 per cent. If we look at the statistics on the dependency on oil as a prime energy resource we find that in Western Europe it is 62 per cent, in the United States 44 per cent and in Japan 76 per cent. If we look at the demand, the imbalance between countries is equally striking. With 6 per cent of the world population the United States accounts for one-third of global oil consumption; it consumed 750 million tons last year and in fact it produced only 500 million tons. In 1970 the United States obtained less than 3 per cent of its oil from the Middle East, by 1972 it had risen to 15 per cent and it is estimated by 1980 to rise to 35 per cent. Western Europe last year consumed 650 million tons but produced less than 25 million tons. 
I agree with the honourable member for Stifling that Japan is in an even worse position. If any Minister is doing anything to ease the burden on the Japanese Government and the people it is the current Minister for Minerals and Energy, much to his credit. Japan at the moment produces practically no oil at all but uses 4.6 million barrels a day and, in effect, is wholly dependent on imported oil to fuel its industry. Japan consumes 250 million tons per annum and about 85 per cent of this oil comes from the Middle East, half of that coming from Iran. To put it in its real perspective I want to give some figures to the House which ought to bring home to the Opposition just how crucial the situation is. If we take the world projected rates of consumption figures to the year 2000, the world total oil consumption in 1972 was 19.3 billion barrels. If the present rates of consumption are maintained requirements will reach 64.3 billion barrels per annum. At the moment the world consumption of natural gas is about 38 trillion cubic feet. By the year 2,000 it will reach a consumption level of 1 30 trillion cubic feet. 
In regard to coal, the world total consumption in oil was 1,698 million tons of oil equivalent, which equals 2,440 million tons of coal. By the year 2000 we will require 8,100 million tons per year. The world energy consumption will increase over the present decade from 4,920 million metric tons of oil equivalent. By the year 2000 the world can expect a demand rate of 17,000 million metric tons oil equivalent. By 1980 oil will claim some 48 per cent, gas some 20 per cent, coal some 25 per cent, and the remainder will be chewed up by way of hydro and nuclear power. 
This Bill purports to do nothing more than vest in the national Government the superintendence for our fuel, energy and mineral resources, and if ever there was a time when it was needed it is now and in the next two to three decades at least. I want to quote briefly from a book called 'The Great Big Australian Takeover Book' by Gordon McCarthy whose summary in dealing with resources and management is, I think, very apposite to this debate. This is what he has to say: 
The non-renewable resources of Australia consist of natural materials and energy sources which have been created by nature and which cannot be replaced within the lifespan of the human species on earth. Until proven sources of perfect substitutes for these non-renewable resources have been discovered in natural form or through technical synthesis, they should be husbanded as if they were irreplaceable and essential to man during his lifetime on earth. 
The knowledge needed to make possible the better achievement of Australia's goals is largely controlled by foreign companies that claim the right to exploit that knowledge in Australia as they see fit. Australia should strive to develop its own scientific and technical knowledge to enable it to maintain its defence and welfare standards. 
Financial resources are a measure of buying power alone and do nothing to benefit the population unless they are combined with physical resources and human skills. The financial resources of Australia must be controlled for the achievement of the nations' goals. Unrestricted financial power can distort the needs of the population in monetary terms and distort the real benefits it could enjoy. 
Land in its natural state is of great value for the perpetuation of the millions of species from which man continues to learn so much about the earth. Many scientific and technical discoveries have been made by man through his study of species in their natural habitat. The benefits of short-term policies should never be allowed to obscure the real value of irreplaceable natural vegetation and the species that live in it. 
Finally, he had this to say: 
The organizations and processes created to achieve Australia's goals will primarily determine whether the goals are in fact achieved. There must be clear distinction between policy and execution, between the people who set goals and those who are responsible for achieving them. A global or national view must be taken of all matters that affect the total population, and there must be no variation of national plans at the local level without reference to the national policy board. 
Future historians will almost certainly view the weeks following 6 October 1973 as a period of extraordinary economic changes in the world - a revolution in fact heralding an awakening by some of the previously under-developed, under-privileged, have-not nations to the fact that they may after all be possessors of the world's most sought after materials, these basic materials being essential to many of the affluent nations if they are to maintain their high standards of living. It is my belief that, for the first time, the people of this nation will have to realise that the days of cheap fuel in terms of oil are rapidly dwindling - they are almost over - and it will not be long before the price of crude oil will be at least $10 a barrel. 
If it was not for the persistency of the Minister for Minerals and Energy, who is at the table, I have no doubt at all that the multi-national corporations finally would have got the contract - they got the contract for the petrochemical plant at Redcliffs in South Australia - and there would not have been a conversion level in terms of liquid petroleum gas to motor spirit. It certainly gives the lie to the accusation by the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Viner)  that the Government has not done sufficient in terms of converting our LPG to motor spirit. If it had been left to the Opposition, no conversion level would have been forced upon the multi-national corporations that control Redcliffs in South Australia. 
Let me conclude by saying that there are some startling lessons to be learnt in Australia. Australia is one of the few highly industrialised countries that are self-sufficient or nearly self-sufficient in most of the materials needed by industry. If, however, we follow those we have endeavoured to copy in the past, such as Great Britain and the United States, in mindlessly plundering our raw materials or, worse, allowing others to do it for us, we deserve to sink to the wretched position in which those other countries now find themselves. A majority of highly industrialised countries have little more than their technology to trade for the raw materials that they desperately need, as we all know. Technology no longer recognises national boundaries and normally goes to the highest bidder. We have a sacred duty to see that our patrimony is not taken from us by handing over exploration to others. Once the natural gas, iron ore or bauxite has gone to fuel the economies of others, does anyone think that our erstwhile friends will give us a second thought? I doubt that they will. They will be off somewhere else, trying to mesmerise some other poor unfortunate nation into handing over its resources at below world market prices. It will be our turn to sink back to the sand and camel economy. I commend the Minister; I commend the Government: and I commend the Bill. 
The Minister for Immigration is aware of my repeated representations deploring the action of the Hungarian Government regarding two Australian citizens, Alfred and Anna  Gardos,  and their son and daughter, who are being held prisoner in Hungary following the confiscation of their Australian passports. Will the Minister take urgent action to see that the Australian citizenship of these people is respected and that they are allowed to return home? 
I address a question to the Treasurer. Is it the Government's policy to establish an Australian Government insurance office to underwrite both life and general insurance? In view of the many fields in which the Australian Government has insurance undertakings, such as the Export Payments Insurance Corporation, the Housing Loans Insurance Corporations and the Defence Service homes insurance scheme, which were in the main created by professedly non-socialist Liberal-Country Party Governments, does the Minister agree that there is an urgent need to rationalise these undertakings? Finally, will the Minister take immediate steps to bring these undertakings within the control of a single authority? 
The Minister for Social Security will remember frequent submissions I have made to him recently about many proposals put forward in the interim report of the committee of inquiry into aged persons housing which was tabled in this Parliament last year. As the Minister has acknowledged to me the need to raise subsidy limits, is he yet in a position to make an announcement on this matter? If not, when will he be in a position to do so? 
I address a question to the Treasurer. In view of the changes that could well follow the adoption of the Woodhouse 
Committee's report and the Government's proposed policy to set up an Australian insurance office, I ask the Treasurer: Will the Government take immediate steps to establish a consultative committee composed of members of the Government and the insurance industry to advise the Government on the effects which its initiatives may have on both the general and life insurance industries? Will the Government make available the financial resources and the expertise of the Australian Industry Development Corporation to assist the predominantly Australian owned insurance companies to strengthen their position within the indigenous market by the amalgamation of their operations? 
I rise to support the Bill but I do not intend to traverse the arguments that have been extensively put by the Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Mr Enderby)  who is sitting at the table. My basic purpose in this debate is to amplify and give weight to the series of questions put on the notice paper to the Minister relating to the need for a national companies Act and also for a special division of the Superior Court. It is my belief that there is a crucial area within which the Superior Court can play a very constructive role provided that we get a national companies Act. Because of the blatant breaches of State Companies Acts, the ineffectiveness of the much vaunted uniform Companies Act and the more recent puerile attempts by New South Wales, Victoria and Queensland at rationality and logicality in the now moribund Companies Interstate Corporate Affairs Commission Act 1974, there is only one solution and that is to introduce an Australian companies Act. The second plea I make to the Minister is to establish a special division of the Superior Court. The current ramshackle fragmentation of company law in this country and the recent attempts by the 3 eastern seaboard States for a tripartite corporate commission was scathingly summed up earlier this this year by the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  when he said: 
If the 3 States need to unify their legislation then clearly it does not stop there; Australia needs uniform legislation. 
That is, in terms of company law. 
Let me pass 2 quick observations on this matter. It is my belief that the current ramshackle company law system in Australia is structured to protect the criminal to the detriment of the. honest. If the States had any semblance of political honesty, they would retitle their company Acts 'Company Directors Protection Acts'.  Mr Taylor,  Q.C., in a recent paper which appeared in the 'University of Queensland Law Journal' dealing with section SI (xx) of the Constitution and in referring to the powers of the Federal Government in regard to a Federal companies Act had this to say: 
As a practical matter it may be assumed that the Federal Government will not attempt to enact a Federal Companies Act unless the States default in the responsibility cast upon them in this field or sufficient political pressure demands such action. But the seeds of such pressure have already been sown: the so called 'uniform' State Companies Acts are rapidly becoming less and less uniform. The unnecessary expense of registering in many States and administering the companies in those States is a great burden. The business community of Australia will not now tolerate the lack of uniformity in company legislation which existed fifteen years ago. In addition, some State Governments have shown themselves loathe to regulate corporate affairs when such regulation was manifestly warranted. If the States1 do not seek to rectify these faults, the Commonwealth may be encouraged to enact a full Federal Companies Act. It is the opinion of the writer that section 51 (xx) of the Constitution will provide the requisite constitutional power so to do. 
I believe his argument is strengthened by the decision in the Rocla Pipes case of 1971. Just how blatant are breaches of the current Companies Act? I suppose the classic breach was the Barton scandal this year, I raised this matter in the Parliament 14 days before the criminal left for overseas. While I am very impressed with the recent legislation of the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  in regard to reciprocity of extradition, I would have been a little more impressed had we tightened the laws of this country to ensure that criminals like Barton did not leave but could stand trial and be indicted. Looking at the reports of the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange, I do not think there is any doubt that this nation needs an Australian National Companies Act. Let us presuppose that this takes place. 
Yes,  Mr Speaker,  perhaps I should contain myself. I should like to deal now with some of the problems that arise, particularly in the States' jurisdictions. I believe a problem arises where an offender is left at large to commit other offences or to make arrangements to avoid apprehension. There is a lack of availability of prosecutors experienced in commercial practice, which results in no action being taken in instances where, with a proper understanding of what has happened, other action could and in many instances should have been taken. The present practice of deciding what is an offence and what is not is outmoded and ineffectual. 
I should like to refer to some of the problems associated with the incorporation of companies under State legislation. Under existing State legislation, it happens that companies of the same name, but unrelated, can be incorporated in separate States. Problems arise when companies of the same name carry out business in the same State, whether lawfully or not. Jurisdiction makes administration restrictive. It could happen that a company incorporated in one State carries on business in another. If offences are involved in the State in which business is carried on, but the directors or officers of the company are resident in another State, many actions are not proceeded with because of the lack of jurisdiction or of the problems involved in taking action in the other State because of jurisdictional difficulties. Although there are reciprocal provisions in those States with uniform companies Acts, the difficulty still exists. The example of Commonwealth law versus State law perhaps is best evidenced by the instance of a person obtaining a ticket from Trans-Australia Airlines or Ansett Airlines of Australia Ltd by false pretences and failing to meet his obligation. In the case of TAA, the person can be prosecuted under Commonwealth law in any State of the Commonwealth, whereas in the case of Ansett he can be prosecuted under State laws only in the State where the offence took place. Here we enter the realm of cloud cuckoo land. 
Let me deal now with the problems of issuing prospectuses. The practice, which is at present approved by the relevant State Registrar, of promoting a company and issuing a prospectus in one State covering business to be carried on outside the State of incorporation could be subject to much greater protection of the public if only one authority, namely, the Australian Government, were responsible for approving the issue of prospectuses. It never fails to amaze me that when somebody wants to float a company and issue a prospectus, the respective Commissioners for Corporate Affairs throughout the States do not instigate an inquiry into the credibility of the. company and attach an accreditation certificate to the prospectus. 
I should like to refer to some scathing criticisms contained in a recent report by  Mr Connolly,  Q.C., of which the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  would be well aware.  Mr Connolly,  Q.C., was appointed by the Queensland Government under the Companies Act to inquire into the activities of Queensland Syndication Management Pty Ltd and 3 associated companies. 
Of course he is. The honourable member for Moreton should read the document.  Mr Connolly,  Q.C., referred in rather blunt terms to the unscrupulous activities of the manipulators. The transactions involved the public in a loss of well over $400,000 by a system which  Mr Connolly,  Q.C., states is:  . grossly and cynically ill-managed and .blatantly illegal and which plainly made its principal appeal to the greed of the investor. As a society we either throw the foolish investor  to  the sharks or embark on a conscious and  sophisicated  program of public protection, of forestalling the company shark and stopping him before he gets too far. It will however prove more rewarding than efforts to chase the horse  6  months after it has left the  stable in the hope of recovering the saddlebags. 
I find it singularly odd, to say the least, to discover that the activities of this group of companies are in parallel with a South Australian company called Australian Syndication, whose directors are presently under arrest. The same fraudulent transactions were being perpetrated in my State but no action was taken. As I understand it, the advice of the AttorneyGeneral's Department was that no action was warranted. The company continued operations for 2 years and ultimately collapsed.  Mr Connolly  goes on to say, referring to the Queensland Act: 
The machinery inserted in the Act for the protection of the public failed to operate. The case is a classical example of the danger in legal matters of thinking in terms of labels, rather than applying the provisions of the Statute to an accurate analysis of the fact. While on the subject of enforcement of the law, I feel constrained to suggest that the time may well be approaching when our society must reappraise its traditional approaches to the criminal law, at least in relation to the complexities of the commercial world. I cannot but feel that the type of evidence which must be adduced in cases such as this is largely beyond the understanding of the common jury. It may be that the expedient adopted in the Bankruptcy Act of making all offences tri-able summarily unless the court itself commits for trial by jury should be considered. Under the Bankruptcy Act, summary trial leads to a lesser penalty than may be imposed on conviction or indictment, but certainty of conviction may well be the dominant consideration. 

 Mr Connolly makes reference to the presentation of evidence by accountants. Dealing with the facts, he has this to say: 
They may indeed speak for themselves, but they speak to a very limited audience. If the books of account are not to serve as a cloak of invisibility for the embezzler, it may be that the expert should have more latitude in explaining what is recorded to those who no matter how well informed in other areas usually have no knowledge of accountancy. Again, if I may say with all respect, not only the jury but the court itself may be hampered by lack of familiarity with commercial practice. It is high time that the Superior Court provided a permanent commercial division for the rapid untangling of corporate problems. The judges of such a division should be as well equipped to penetrate the smokescreen of the 'round robin' as to adjudicate on claims to set aside preferences, and both should be done without delay. Such a division could handle the summary trial of company offences. 
Might I say that this proposal is not unique. As I understand it, the Admiralty Court and the marine courts of inquiry would never sit in judgment without advisers or technical assessors. In my view there are many abuses in relation to company affairs; that fact no longer can be denied. No doubt the proposed Securities Exchange Commission will deal with that matter and will provide better protection to prospective shareholders from the offering and transfer of shares by unscrupulous manipuulators. But what of the people who, having become shareholders, are subject to other abuses and mismanagement by the controllers of companies? It is well known that since the ownership and the control of large companies became separated, new problems have arisen which the present company law has not successfully dealt with. The owners of the company, that is, the shareholders, under present laws have no effective say in the way in which their money is used and have in effect no control over directors. Company meetings are an empty charade; the opinions of shareholders are seldom sought and even then are rarely heeded. Such provisions as the present law makes for the expression of shareholders' opinions are inadequate and can easily be bypassed by those in control of the clerical and financial machinery of the company. 
If the company and its controllers wrong shareholders, the remedies are almost illusory. If any exist, their enforcement is slow and exceedingly expensive. Better protection must be given to shareholders. But they are not the only ones who must be safeguarded. The interests of employees and of the public are not regarded in the present outmoded structure of company law. A company's division of the Superior Court could play a vital part in the protection of shareholders from the controllers of companies, and an influential part in the development of new concepts of company law in the interests of workers and of the public. In other fields it has proved useless to confer abstract rights, however enlightened, upon people without giving them also a tribunal to which they can go, confident in the knowledge that their rights will he cheaply and speedily enforced. 
Such a court must have the power to examine the substantial merits of the cases before it, and must have the power to base its decision not only on the terms of so-called free contracts, which are usually forced upon shareholders by managements, but also on equity and justice. It must not be a conventional court bound to apply rigid rules of law because the controllers of companies will continue to frustrate it in the same way as they are frustrating the courts at the moment. Our present machinery of justice has proved to be ineffective, inefficient and totally inadequate in the field of company law. I suggest that we create one which will work, even if it means departing to some extent from our traditional ideas of what courts should do and of what kind of persons should comprise them. That such an innovation can operate fairly and effectively is shown by the experience of the credit tribunal in South Australia which has already proved its worth in that other great source of abuse, consumer credit. A similar approach to the control of companies would be no less effective. 
I summarise by putting some questions to the Minister and inviting his comments, particularly in response to my last question. As I analyse the Bill, the Superior Court will be organised in several divisions. Two of these will have a direct 'bearing on company law - the bankruptcy and insolvency division, and the commerce division. Another, the general division, may possibly have to deal with some cases having a company law element. Leaving the general division aside since it is not particularly relevant for my purposes, I ask the Minister: Is it his intention to organise the court in this way and to assign judges to those divisions according to the subjects in which they have particular competence? If so, can one assume that the bankruptcy and insolvency division, and the commerce division, would be staffed by judges who, apart from their other qualifications, have particular knowledge of company law? Does the Bill specifically contemplate that a judge may be assigned simultaneously to more than one division? Is it intended that a judge may not be removed from a division to which he has been assigned without his consent? Finally, can the Minister give an assurance that he will create a special division of the Superior Court and invest it with adequate powers to safeguard the interests of shareholders, employees and the public? I ask all honourable members to support the Bill. 
I preface my question to the Minister representing the Attorney-General by reminding him of the difficulty, expense and in some cases impossibility of extradition and the widespread abuses as revealed by the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange, which must surely amount to corporate criminal behaviour to say the least. I ask the Minister: Will he take immediate steps to ensure that brokers and controllers of any company in respect of whose conduct there are grounds for believing a complaint could be lodged be made to surrender their passports and be prevented from transferring money abroad, unless and until the Minister is satisfied that there is no danger of their leaving the country? 
-This Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill will receive the support of this Joint Sitting and of the nation despite pending High Court litigation initiated by the supporters of vested interests who sit opposite. My Government's policy is to ensure that this country's mineral resources and its surrounding offshore areas add up to a national asset, the value of which is scarcely calculable in money terms. The manner of its appropriation, the rate and volume of its exploitation and the need and level of its conservation must meet national priorities. Our resources must be evaluated on and at a national level. This Bill gives legislative effect to these criteria. Our natural resources are not the exclusive preserve of State governments whose responsibility is limited by geographical boundaries which were fixed by imperial legislators 2 centuries ago. Often the sole reason for their exploitation stems from the need to shore up a shortfall in State treasuries and because of agreements which are made principally with overseas corporations. These agreements are frequently written in terms and conditions which are scandalous sell-outs. Nor are these resources the exclusive preserve of boards of directors closeted in board rooms in London, New York or Bermuda where profit is the sole determinant. 
We categorically state that these resources are the exclusive preserve of the real owners and the real keepers of our national estate, who are the people of this country. We talk about scandalous sell-outs. Let us have a look at the position. I vividly recall the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  making statements about the terms of returns to States in royalty payments. If ever there were a scandal in this nation in terms of the pay back by mining corporations it is in 2 areas in Queensland, namely, coal and bauxite. We ought to remember that in Queensland, on production figures, coal is controlled 88 per cent by overseas corporations and bauxite is controlled 100 per cent. When the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  alluded to the grip that is on coal in Queensland he was referring to Utah Mining Australia Ltd. That company was floated in Queensland on the basis that it had total ownership. Such a scandal was raised in Queensland that the Queensland Government was forced to put pressure on Utah and insist on at least a 10 per cent Australian equity. 
This year in the Bowen Basin that combine will extract 18 million tons. If my figures are correct, at $20 f.o.b. per ton that will give the company a return of $360m. If we rip $7 a ton out of that, this will give the company about $125m in profit. It will be second only to Bougainville Mining Ltd in New Guinea. Let us have a look at the royalty payments. I have done some exercises from 1971 to 1973. 1 am not well versed in the up to date figures in Queensland because they are increased only in the last week, but until recently they were a national scandal. When the LiberalCountry Party Treasury White Paper was brought down in 1971 the Federal Government indicted the Queensland Government for a wholesale sell-out on royalty payments. During the years 1971 to 1973, 52.5 million tons of coal were produced at a value of $434m. The royalty received by the Queensland Government was $2,235,000. That represented a value of .5 in percentage figures of the value. If over that period the calculation had been based on 7.5 per cent, which is the normal royalty paid on iron ore in Western Australia, the Queensland Government would have secured a royalty return of $32m. 
If we turn to the question of bauxite we see exactly the same scandalous figures. At Weipa in that 3-year period production was 25 million tons with a value of $126m. From royalties $ 1.75m was received. If those royalties had been calculated at 7.5 per cent the Queensland Government would have gained a return of $9.5m. In that period of 3 years the Queensland Government has socked $37m as a nice gift to the multi-national corporations. Honourable members opposite are interjecting. I assume they are talking about railway charges in Queensland. Do I understand them to be suggesting that Queensland is the only State which inflicts royalty charges on freight rates? It is not. Every State in the Commonwealth does. A lot could have been done over that 3-year period in Queensland with $37m. The Queensland Premier comes to the Premiers' Conferences and pleads poverty. It would be much better if he pleaded poverty to his multi-national friends. 
Reference has been made to the operations at Hamersley and I should like to add my humble, constructive contribution. Hamersley Holdings Ltd is almost totally overseas controlled. It has an 11.5 per cent Australian equity. It invested $522m over a period of 7 years but 75 per cent of that money was provided from Australian sources-from funds generated from sales of premium share issues to the public. However, what has not been brought out tonight is that because of the very structure of the shares $370m has been paid to overseas shareholders and $90m to Australian shareholders. An interesting feature about the Hamersley project upon which this House and the nation ought to reflect is that all the management and expertise have been supplied by Australians. The project was an outstanding feat of engineering in Australia. It got off the ground from nothing to large-scale shipments within 2 years. The whole operation was planned and executed by Australians. Had this legislation been on the statute book at the time Hamersley commenced operations we would have had considerable benefit from the 5 million tons of minerals extracted in the intervening period. Instead a bonanza has been handed to overseas corporations. 
In the limited period remaining to me I should like to refer to a matter that should be of great concern to this nation, particularly in view of the oil energy crisis which commenced last November. The legacy that the previous Government handed to this Government in terms of liquid hydrocarbons is a scandal. Aus.tralians have an equity in the Bass Strait fields of 42 per cent; in the Perth basin 14 per cent; in the Carnarvon Basin, 14 per cent; m the Cooper Basin 37 per cent; in Palm Valley 10 per cent and in the greatest off-shore set of tenement leases in the world, the north-west shelf, 15 per cent. Another aspect which has been of significance in the United States of America and which is almost scandalous in Australia relates to the field of refining technology. Who owns the bulk of the refining installations in Australia? Overseas corporations do. The only equity that Australia holds in the vast number of refineries in this country is 10.6 per cent. What worries me above aU is the world situation. I think supply will be perhaps the most difficult factor. 
I should Uke to devote my remaining time to a statement made by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  concerning the United States. He said that there is no grip by multinational corporations in the energy sector in the United States. There is a lot of concern in the United States at the moment. Four States have indicted multinational corporations for collusive practices. The top 20 companies account for 94 per cent of crude reserves; 70 per cent of production; 86 per cent of refining; and 79 per cent of sales. That is hardly a fair exercise in private enterprise. Likewise there is a startling revelation as to control of energy components in the United States. The top 25 oil corporations control 84 per cent of oU, 72 per cent of gas, 50 per cent of coal, 80 per cent of atomic or nuclear power and 60 per cent of electric power. 
If the honourable member wishes me to do so I will. The Minister for Minerals and Energy has said that we are indeed rich in energy resources. We are amongst the world's 5 major producers of bauxite, iron ore, tin, silver, lead, zinc and manganese. However, if we follow the course of the United Kingdom and the United States in mindlessly plundering our raw reserves or, what is worse, do what the parties opposite were doing and, in effect hand the reserves over to others to plunder, we shall deserve to sink to the same wretched position as other countries have found themselves in. 
I conclude by saying that this legislation gives effect to the understanding given by the Prime Minister in his policy speech in 1972. He said that the Government was determined that the Australian people should be restored to their rightful place in their own country as owners and keepers of the national estate and that control of the country's national resources should be vested in the people as a whole. 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Attorney-General. It is in relation to the Mainline Corporation. Is the Minister aware of reports that  Mr R.  T. Baker, Managing Director of Mainline Corporation, has been involved with the Endurance Mining Co. which has been the subject of investigation by the New South Wales Corporate Affairs Commission? Is it a fact that the report of the Commission has been suppressed? Will the Minister request the Attorney-General to obtain a copy of the report, and will he further take steps to ensure that the report is made public? 
-My question to the Acting Treasurer deals with a consultative committee on insurance. In a question to the Treasurer in July I asked whether, in view of the changes that could well follow the adoption of the Woodhouse Committee report the Treasurer would consider the establishment of a consultative committee to advise the Government on the effects which its initiatives might have on the insurance industry. Can the Acting Treasurer tell me whether consideration has yet been given to this matter? 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Attorney-General. It deals with the Sydney Stock Exchange. In relation to the millions of dollars revealed to have been made by abuses and crooked practices by certain Sydney stockbrokers and in view of the fact that the recent fines imposed by the exchange are so trivial in comparison, coupled with concealment of the names of the culprits, does the Minister agree that this action amounts to an incitement of persons of that sort to commit further frauds? In view of the derisory nature and the secrecy of the exchange's actions, will the Minister obtain and table a copy of the report of the exchange? Is it a fact that the fines are simply a benefit payment by firms to the exchange itself so that clients who were exploited by the brokers will receive nothing to recompense them for thenlosses? Is it a fact that the members of the exchange are about to increase their brokerage fees and that the effect of this will be to enable those firms which have been fined to get back from the public the amounts which they have paid? Finally, in view of this behaviour by the Sydney Stock Exchange, which clearly shows that it has failed to regulate itself, is the Minister able to say whether there is a pressing case for the Australian Government to take over the functions of the exchange? 
-I rise to support the Bill. I consider that the remarks of the honourable member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley)  not particularly worthy. He obviously has not read the report of the Committee of Inquiry into Compensation and Rehabilitation in Australia. Beyond any question the current hotch-potch system of workmen's compensation and compulsory third party motor vehicle insurance is far more costly than the proposed new scheme. From its inception, the Government has been struggling to bring about a more equitable sharing of the riches of this country, and in attempting to achieve the goal the Government has endeavoured to lift some of the burden from the less fortunate members of the community who for some reason beyond their control have been unable to benefit fully from the advantages which should be their right. 
Perhaps one of the most disadvantaged sections of the community comprises those suffering incapacity through illness or injury. Most honourable members know of incapacitated people in their electorates. I advise the honourable member for Chisholm that in my electorate there is a village for some 150 disabled people, a high proportion of whom are suffering from either paraplegia or total disablement. I suggest that the honourable member visit that place and state his capitalist philosophy on self-help. I suggest that he tell these people how they must live for the remainder of their life on an invalid pension under the current system. Many of these people have had their lives ruined by mischance, by congenital infliction, injury through a sporting accident or some other mishap which has in fact seriously diminished their ability to earn a reasonable income. Besides the physical incapacity suffered by such people, the mental anguish is dreadful. The fear of not being able to pay one's way, not being able to keep up mortgage payments, hire purchase payments and the like have caused untold misery to thousands of unfortunate people who through no fault of their own have become incapacitated. 
The media tell us frequently, according to the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp),  of the large sums awarded to road accident victims, who incidentally have waited sometimes for ten to fifteen years for a court judgment. We all know of the amounts paid out annually in workmen 's compensation. But these 2 areas are only part of the picture. What of the thousands who cannot prove negligence or are not covered by workmen's compensation? The current scheme provides nothing for them. These are the ones who for the first time have some hope of security under this legislation and who will be able to obtain compensation for their incapacity. 
In supporting the Bill I do not want to go into the field of benefits and procedures. This will be left to other speakers. I want to pass some remarks on the effect that unquestionably this Bill will have on the insurance industry. I pay a tribute to the private insurance companies and the State Government insurance offices which have carried the burden of workmen's compensation and compulsory third party insurance over the years. Most honourable members have at some time or another received complaints about unfair treatment by insurance companies in the workmen's compensation field, but I understand that the number of genuine complaints is relatively small, which reflects a high degree of integrity amongst most insurance companies. I know of instances where fault did not lie with the insurance company but with a careless employer who failed to report an accident. 
Some insurance companies, notably Australianowned companies, have spent considerable sums in providing physiotherapy services for injured workers, which is very much in line with the sentiments expressed in volume 2 of the report of the Committee of Inquiry into Rehabilitation and Compensation. Some companies, again mainly Australian-owned, have employed safety officers to institute safety programs for employers. It would be a great pity if, once the Government takes over full responsibility for safety and repatriation, it does not make use of the expertise gained by insurance companies in these 2 areas. 
I make a plea for the insurance companies which are currently providing the types of insurance cover which will no longer be needed with the inception of the national compensation scheme. It has been estimated by various authorities that from 1 July 1976 companies, on average, will lose 40 per cent of their business, mainly in workmen's compensation and compulsory third party motor vehicle insurance. Some companies have as much as 60 or 70 per cent of their annual premium income tied up in workmen's compensation alone. 
A sudden reduction of approximately $500m in income would be a very serious matter and could seriously endanger some companies' solvency. Added to this loss of income will be the obligation of the companies to continue to pay claims arising before the national compensation scheme comes into effect. Theoretically companies should have sufficient reserves to cover these claims, but we would be deluding ourselves if we believed this. Examinations of balance sheets recently released by companies show how badly some companies have underestimated their position. I doubt whether many companies realised the seriousness of the position until recently, but inflation, retrospective increases in benefits and a number of other factors have added to an already serious situation. 
The House will recall that in anticipation of these circumstances in last July I raised the question of the need for a consultative committee or committees following the adoption by the Government of the Woodhouse Committee report. The Government endorsed my proposals. The Government felt that 2 committees were needed, one in the field of general insurance and one in the field of life assurance, with functions similar to those of the committees to be established under the Financial Corporations Act. Section 30 of that Act provides for the establishment of a committee or committees to advise the Treasurer on matters to be included in Regulations under the Act and on the operation of the legislation. The committees suggested in the context of this legislation will provide similar advice, for instance, on the proposed new legislation or amendments to existing legislation. It is likely that there will be significant developments in the area of insurance legislation directed at, amongst other things, such matters as protection of policy holders and safeguarding the community interest in insurance matters, and such committees could prove to have a powerful use in consultation for such developments. They will provide a very valuable medium to centralise a point of general consultation between the Government and the various insurance groups. At the moment there are some 12 associations representing life and general insurance and it is very difficult to get an industry point of view from such a vast number of associations. In addition to the basic function of advising on proposed legislative changes and being a point of general consultative contact with the Government, the consultative committees could also have matters referred to them by the Treasurer on which they could provide advice. The committees will be standing committees. 
Apart from the matters contained in the Woodhouse scheme, I have persistently laid stress on the urgent need for the inclusion in the general insurance legislation of further provisions dealing with the protection of policy holders. There should be provision in the legislation to give the Insurance Commissioner some control over investments by insurance companies, a matter which has become extremely relevant over the last eight or nine months, and some selectivity as to the appointment of managers and directors to companies on the grounds that they ought to measure up to the highest standards of competency in the field. They are three areas that ought to go immediately to the consultative committee. 
I was very pleased to hear the Acting Treasurer reply, in answer to my question, that the consultative committee on insurance which is being established will be asked as its first task to advise the Treasurer on ways and means by which the withdrawal of insurance companies from workers compensation and compulsory third party insurance can in fact be cushioned. The Woodhouse Committee did not examine the possible effects of the introduction of its scheme on the insurance industry and it gave no consideration to the measures, if any, that might have to be adopted to meet any of these problems. Regrettably, the insurance industry has to take the responsibility largely for that, because it did not furnish the committee with the necessary information. 
Yes they were, obviously. An early examination of these aspects should be made and, while some work has been undertaken on the question, the dearth of statistical information on the general insurance industry means the situation will not improve until the Insurance Act 1973 has been operating for some time, and this will make the task extremely difficult. 
I should like to quote now from the submission made by Pettigrew and Glencross to the Woodhouse Committee. Clause 5 on page 384 of the Woodhouse report states: 
But that is probably the least of the worries. We are sure you well appreciate the extreme difficulties of accurately estimating outstanding claims on any liability business. The problems of inflation and increased Statutory benefits have snow-balled over the past decade with the result that Insurers have belatedly recognised the inadequacy of their reserves although not necessarily the extent of that inadequacy. Even if one felt completely confident of assessing  these future liabilities accurately, the quantum of current inadequacy may well be so vast that only the largest Insurers with immense reserves could afford to fund them in one year. 
On page 387 of the submission three alternatives are set out on the way in which this legislation could assist the insurance companies and at this point of time these ought to be sent to the consultative committee for consideration. I will not read the first two alternatives in full, but (a) is a proposal to assist companies to continue in business and (b) is a proposal to take over reserves and liabilities completely. The third alternative reads: 
Government takes over all assets representing Outstanding Claims Reserves and accepts all liability for those claims. Clearly this could present gross inequity as between offices, although on the face of things it presents a nice clean termination for the Insurers. 
In the circumstances and given the critical importance of the subject for the insurance industry, it will be necessary and desirable to have close consultation with the insurance industry in undertaking this work. 
Let me conclude by saying that no one denies that the transition will be difficult for the insurance companies, but the stakes are high. The insurance industry is immensely important to the country. It is perhaps one of the least known and least understood industries, both inside and outside the Parliament. From 1969, when I first came into this Parliament, it took me 5 years to overcome a good proportion of the lethargy of the then government to give this country some semblance of adequate legislation in the field of general insurance. It seems to me to be a tragedy that the legislation was not brought in much earlier. Had the existing legislation been placed on the statute book, companies like Northumberland Insurance Co. Ltd. would never have been registered, in my view. It is a regrettable fact that the insurance industry is now in the position where it ought to be fully examined and I believe the consultative committee will play a very important role in the phasing in of this particular measure. 
Much of the blame for ignorance about the industry regrettably lies with the industry itself. However, it should be realised that in premium income terms alone the Australian public pays $2, 500m per annum for general and life insurance, an immense sum, I think all honourable members would agree. The overall objective of this legislation, which in my view is the most significant piece of legislative reform ever tabled in this Parliament, is to provide a universal and comprehensive scheme designed to alleviate the problems of persons afflicted by physical or mental incapacity which adversely affects their quality of life. I commend the Minister, I commend the Government, and I commend the Bill to the House. 
I rise to support the proposed estimates and I take this opportunity to answer the mob outburst by members of the Australian Country Party during my speech on the Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill at the Joint Sitting when I attacked the scandalous sell-out by the Queensland Country Party Government. Then I raised 2 issues. One was the shocking level of the then royalty payments on our minerals in that State and secondly - 
-Well, if you like. Second was the level of overseas ownership in the Queensland mining industries. I claimed at that time that in respect of 2 commodities, coal and bauxite, the production figures showed that they were 88 per cent and 100 per cent respectively overseas owned at that time. It is interesting to note that the statement issued recently by the Australian Bureau of Statistics states: 
Queensland was the only State for which both foreign ownership and control exceeded SO per cent, and it was the highest in both categories. 
That was in August. In the following month the Queensland Government introduced its Mining Royalties Bill. It has taken that Government 17 years to change the value of its royalties. Effective from 1 August the new broad policy is that minerals royalties will be 10 per cent of the value of the mineral loaded ready for shipment from the fields. We ought to take a look at some cold, hard facts. The Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  challenged me to produce some facts. I shall give him some facts and figures. In Queensland last year the value of minerals output increased by 77 per cent over the previous year to a total of $5 15m. Royalty payments to the State 's Consolidated Revenue Fund for that year totalled $4m, and because of increased coal production and a substantial increase in the profitability of Mt Isa Mines Ltd the royalty, on the old basis, for 1974-75 was expected to be $9m. However, on the new royalty rates the return in 1974-75 will be $37m, an increase of $33m on the 1973-74 payments and an increase of $28m on what would have been received in 1974-75 at the old rates. 
I was chided because I claimed during the Joint Sitting that the people have a right to a reasonable return on exploitation of a national asset. During the debate on the Queensland Mining Royalty Bill last month  Sir Gordon  Chalk said: 
I have said that I make no apology for what the Government is endeavouring to do today. It believes that the people of this State have an entitlement. If the profitability of a company is something like $150m and the State receives only $7m is it not right that we indicate that it is time for a change? Of course, I do not blame the companies. All of them have a responsibility to their shareholders and to their directors. Consequently, we are entitled to argue that as a Government we have the greater responsibility of laying down what we believe we are entitled to. That is exactly what we have done. 
Over the years the amounts paid by all mining companies in Queensland by way of royalties has been a national disgrace. For example, in 1971-72 on a total output of coal valued at $107m the mining companies paid royalties amounting to $577,000 which represents a return to the State of .54 per cent. In the following year, 1972-73, on coal valued at $ 160m the companies paid royalties amounting to $852,000, representing a return to the State of only .53 per cent. In the 10 years between 1962 and 1972 production was valued at $727m whereas royalty payments amounted to only $2,875,000. This is a national disgrace. 
Let me refer to the big five mining companies in Queensland. Mount Isa Mines Ltd is 49.5 per cent controlled by American Smelting and Refining Co. Comalco Ltd is 45 per cent owned by Conzinc Riotinto Australia Ltd and another 45 per cent is owned by the Kaiser Steel Corporation. Thiess-Peabody-Mitsui is a nice consortium in which Peabody-Coal has a 58 per cent equity and Mitsui a 20 per cent equity. I do not blame Thiess for that. If Australian Industries Development Corporation had been in operation 4 years ago the company would not have had to go overseas to get capital. This is an indictment on the previous Government. These companies had a picnic at the expense of this nation for about 20 years. Not one of these companies has publicised the details of royalties paid to the Queensland Government. However, one can at least estimate them. In 1973 MIM paid about $2m in royalties on a net declared profit of $32m. In 1970 it paid $3.8m in royalties on a net declared profit of $55.5m. Utah announced on 31 October last year production of about 11 million tonnes of export coal. On this basis it would have paid $550,000 in royalties. Utah's disclosed profit was $37.2m. 
-You should do a little bit of homework. At least I do. The ThiessPeabodyMitsui consortium has an annual production export of 4 million tonnes, the royalties on which amount to $200,000. This year for the first time in that State's history 20 million tonnes of coal will be mined in one year. 
Let me dig a bit deeper. The annual report of the Queensland Under Secretary for Mines for 1973 is worthy of study. I commend it to the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  who is a shadow minister. That report shows that the total value of minerals produced for 1973 was $515m of which MIM accounted for $255m or 49.5 per cent. That company's aggregate royalty payment for the 16 years to June 1973 was $ 1 5. lm on a net declared profit of $29 lm- 5 per cent. Sales totalled $ 1,545m for the same period. Profits before tax amounted to $477m. The highest royalty payment in a year was in 1970 when the company paid $3. 8m on a net declared profit of $55m. Royalties paid as a proportion of the company's profit to which they are related averaged 3 per cent a year in the 5-year period to 1973. Comalco paid only 5c a ton on bauxite refined at Gladstone and 10c a ton on bauxite exported. In 1973 its profit was $18m. It is reported to have paid less than $700,000 in royalties. On 3 June 1972 Utah announced new contracts involving $600m to $900m worth of coal from central Queensland mines. As at 31 October last year it had a gross revenue of $133m which is an incrase of $40m on 1972. It recorded a gross profit of $3 7m or an increase of $9m over the previous year. Its minerals sales for the first 6 months of this year exceeded $60m. However, this was before the renegotiation of coal prices last June for which the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  who is sitting at the table, must take credit and for which this company can expect to receive an additional revenue of more than $90m in. this financial year. This company accounts for 60 per cent of Queensland's coal shipments. 
Let me conclude on this point. Two factors were involved in this change of heart by the Queensland Government. The change of heart did not come about of its own volition. Firstly, the State Government needed to shore up a shortfall in its Treasury. Secondly, that Government feared that our Government would impose its mining policies on Queensland. Basically, the one that really mattered was our determination and in particular the determination of the MinisterI commend him for this- to ensure that Queensland would not be permitted to sell out our minerals at rock bottom prices. Australia owes a debt of gratitude to the Minister for Minerals and Energy who succeeded in obtaining increased prices for natural resources exported to Japan. If it had not been for the efforts of the Minister who is constantly criticised by members of the Opposition for having stood up for his country and demanded a fair and just price what would be the position? I commend the Minister for these estimates. 
-Can the Treasurer assure the House that the taxation deductions for gifts to charitable institutions and other prescribed causes will continue? 
I address my question to the  Deputy  Prime Minister in his capacity as Minister for Overseas Trade. In view of the fact that Australian businessmen, especially those in South Australia with whom I have discussed the problem, are experiencing difficulties in penetrating the Middle East market even though they are competitive, I ask the Minister: Will he consider leading a business mission to the area in order to assist and increase the flow of trade between that important area of the world and Australia? 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
What stage has the proposed national companies legislation reached, and when can its introduction be expected. 
What safeguards will the legislation contain to ensure 
that shareholders and prospective investors are adequately protected from managements and promoters and 
that the operations and activities of major corporations are such as to promote the interests of their employees and the public. 
Will the proposed Superior Court have a companies division with adequate powers and judges skilled enough in this part of the law to ensure that such safeguards are fully and speedily enforced. 
-I direct my question to the Treasurer. Is he aware that the cost of damage to property in the private sector resulting from the devastation of both earthquake and flood over- the last 20 years has been estimated at some $500m and that in the case of Cyclone Tracy it is estimated that the cost to the insurance industry will be about $250m? In view of the timely action taken by this Government to set up a natural disasters organisation, it is now crucial that we take steps to implement a natural disasters insurance scheme. Is it a fact that a committee comprising experts in this field of insurance has forwarded to the Government, at the Prime Minister's request, a feasibility study into the introduction of a natural disasters insurance scheme? Is it the Government's intention to act on the recommendations contained in the report? If so, when will the legislation giving effect to the recommendations be tabled in the Parliament? Finally, does the Treasurer agree that the implementation of a natural disasters insurance scheme for Australia is a matter of urgency? Is it his intention to seek the co-operation of all sections of the insurance industry to facilitate its introduction? 
-The Government's moves to abolish all Australian appeals to the Privy Council should be welcomed warmly on both sides of the House. The tragedy is that we have had to wait for 75 years of Federation for firm, constructive and conclusive action to be taken on this matter to end all Australian court appeals to London. I was interested at the remarks of the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  regarding the 'Sydney Morning Herald' trappings and, in particular, his reference to Deakin. Deakin had other things to say on this controversy over the Privy Council. In his 'Federal Story' he recounted the events in London in 1900 when efforts were made to have the Commonwealth Constitution forward appeals to the Privy Council in constitutional cases. These efforts were thwarted by the British Government and some State politicians. Deakin summed up the situation when he said: 
The Conservative classes, the legal profession and all people of wealth desired to retain appeals to the Privy Council . . . 
Deakin was not, of course, the first to criticise the use of the Privy Council as the ultimate court of appeal from the Australian courts. Even in the early years of the 19th century, long before we had anything like our present court systems, there was evidence that appeals to the Privy Council were of great concern to those who held a responsible view on the working of the law in Australia. As long ago as the second decade of the 19th century in the time of Governor Macquarie the chief law officer in New South Wales, Ellis Bent, complained that even the threat of appeals to the Privy Council could force those with little money to 'accept terms however unjust ' in settling their cases. 
Today, when the Privy Council no longer hears appeals in Federal cases- since the Commonwealth legislation of 1968- it is, for the most part, cases dealing with civil actions under State law which go on appeal to the Privy Council. Admittedly, many of these are actions concerning large firms with large funds at their disposal. But how many other cases are there in which litigants do not go on appeal because threats of appeals to the Privy Council can lead their actions to be compromised? How does the accident victim feel about the time involved in an appeal to London while waiting for his damages even though powerful insurance companies are paying the costs? How often is it possible, too, that even relatively large companies are not prepared to risk further legal proceedings after all Australian court proceedings are concluded and an appeal to London is threatened? And this after courts in this country, recognised as amongst the best in the world, have dealt fully with the matter. 
Because of the wider recognised status and capacity of our courts it is not surprising too that the Privy Council itself has increasingly acknowledged in recent years that there may well be good reasons for not altering the decisions of Australian courts and particularly the decisions of the High Court of Australia even if the approaches of the British judges might be different. Some months ago it was reported on the Australian Broadcasting Commission that  Mr McMahon,  the preceding Prime Minister, thought all appeals to the Privy Council in civil cases should be stopped. The report suggested, however, that in some constitutional cases emanating from the States there might still be a case for appeals to the Privy Council. But as the Privy Council showed in the decade or so before appeals in all Commonwealth constitutional cases were stopped, it often preferred to follow judgments of the High Court. How could the position be otherwise when British judges, who have often found it difficult to follow the intricacies of Australian constitutional law, are faced with legal issues based on a system of government which is far from being a mirror of their own? 
I refer to a book by Professor Castles titled Australian Legal History', dealing with the British common law in Australia since 1828. He points out how the continued use of Privy Council appeals has been a factor injecting English judicial decisions into the case law of the Australian States. These decisions must, I would think, often have reflected the social attitudes and ideas of English judges rather than those of our own judges in Australia for, despite the idea that I think many laymen have about the law, there are many students of the law who hold that the social environment in which judges work can often play a role in determining judicial decisions. 
Although not openly recognising factors like these, even in the area of private law, as with Australian constitutional law before the abolition of Federal appeals, the Privy Council has begun to show signs of deferring to decisions of the High Court. As Professor Castles points out, the implications of a case such as Australian Consolidated Press v. Uren seemed to point to the 'development of a unified Austraiian common law, which may, in certain circumstances, be separate and distinct from the common law in other countries, including England'. With developments like these and clear hints of the stature of our own courts, it is hard to concede why there should be any opposition to the final abolition of all appeals to the Privy Council. Distinct and separate development of Australian law is underlined further by the remarks made by the Privy Council in a case of appeal from the High Court of Australia last last year. In that case, namely, Geelong Harbour Trust Commissioners v. Gibbs, Bright and Co.- reported in the Australian Law Journal Reports 1974- the Privy Council refused to disturb the correctness of decisions of the High Court dealing with the statutory liability of ship owners for damage done to harbour property, despite differing possible views that could have been taken in the light of conflicting English decision. Speaking for the Privy Council, Lord Diplock had this to say: 
Apart from those factors which are special to the particular field of law in the instant case, there is however a wider consideration which would make their Lordships reluctant to interfere with the decision of the High Court on matter of this kind. If the legal process is to retain the confidence of the nation, the extent to which the High Court exercises its undoubted power not to adhere to a previous decision to its own must be consonant with the consensus of opinion of the public, of the elected legislature and of the judiciary as to the proper balance between the respective roles of the legislature and of the judiciary as law makers. Even among those nations whose legal system derives from the common law of England, this consensus may vary from country to country and from time to time. It may be influenced by the federal or unitary nature of the constitution and whether it is written or unwritten, by the legislative procedure in Parliament, by the ease with which parliamentary time can be found to effect amendments in the law which concern only a small minority of citizens, by the extent to which Parliament has been in the habit of intervening to reverse judicial decisions by legislation; but most of all by the underlying political philosophy of the particular nation as to the appropriate limits of the lawmaking function of a non-elected judiciary. 
I emphasise the final words: 
The High Court of Australia can best assess the national attitude on matters such as these. 
The Privy Council itself, when considering Canadian legislation abolishing appeals to the Privy Council, described the regulation of such appeals as a prime aspect of sovereignty which would be impaired if, at the will of the Canadian citizens, recourse could be had to a tribunal in the constitution of which it had no voice. What was true in Canada in 1947 is surely true of Australia now. Why should there be opposition on the part of any of us here today to the removal of the continued impairment of Australian sovereignty? Australia is one of the few independent countries that has retained any right of appeal to the Privy Council from its own courts. We should follow the Canadian example. It is true that New Zealand is one of the few countries that has retained appeals to the Privy Council, but even that country would probably reconsider its position if we went ahead and abolished all existing rights of appeal. 
I draw the attention of honourable members to an article that was published in the London Times' on 19 January 1973. In that article the legal correspondent of that newspaper mentioned the countries from whose courts appeals still lies to the Privy Council. He also pointed out that some lawyers who practice before the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council were of the view that those hearing the cases showed little interest in them and rather more often than in other courts exhibited signs of impatience. He went on to state that the privately expressed view of some of the judges themselves was less than enthusiastic about retaining the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council in its present role. There is a further point that should be made. In an article published in the Adelaide 'Advertiser' at the time when the Bill was earlier before the House, Professor Castles drew attention to the incongruity of retaining appeals in matters arising in the States when appeals in cases from the Australian Capital Territory and from territorial courts could no longer go to the Privy Council. The article stated: 
If the States do not follow the Commonwealth's lead then conflicts could arise between Privy Council and High Court rulings on legal questions which relate to both State and Federal law. Thus, a High Court decision, for example, dealing with a criminal offence created under federal law could differ from a Privy Council ruling dealing with a similar  offence created under State law. Such a situation could complicate the operation of law in this country and militate against the effective administration of justice. 
The position is even more clearly illustrated when it is remembered that the High Court can itself have occasion to deal with purely State type cases, applying only State law, in the exercise of what is generally known as diversity jurisdiction of that court, that is, cases involving disputes between residents of different States. Conflicts could then arise between the Privy Council and the High Court on legal questions which relate to  the same State laws. 
It is made abundantly clear that the States themselves could have acted to clear up this situation, but they have failed to act. It is hardly surprising in the circumstances that the national government finds it necessary to move in a bid to ensure the final abolition of the appeals. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  intimated in his second reading speech that efforts were made as recently as 1973 to seek the co-operation of all the States, but this seems to have been of no avail whatsoever. As far back as 1965, when the Prime Minister raised the question of appeals to the Privy Council in this very House, he was able to point to a number of eminent lawyers, both in practice and at the universities, who supported the abolition of such appeals. That position has not varied. Recently, in a letter dated 20 November 1974 published in the Australian Financial Review',  Mr Edward  St John, Q.C., a former member of this House and an acting judge of the Supreme Court of New South Wales, said in the course of referring to 2 cases decided by the Privy Council on Australian mining and environmental law that the possibility of such appeals still remaining was, in his words, 'a deplorable anachronism. The sooner we abolish the right of appeal to the Privy Council, the better for our national self-respect'. In his view, it was quite inappropriate for the law lords of  Her  Majesty's Privy Council sitting in London to determine what was really an Australian land use conflict.  Mr Speaker,  I wholeheartedly support those remarks. 
Continuation of appeals not only appears to impair Australian sovereignty but also inhibits the development in Australia of an integrated judicial system. Whilst there is an outside appeal this is impossible. How can the High Court be a final court of appeal while appeals from State courts to the Privy Council remain? I would suggest that no honourable member with any sense of national pride should be in any doubt that these appeals ought to and should be abolished. This should be acknowledged here and now, and all the parliaments of Austrafia should cooperate in bringing about the abolition of this right of appeal at the earliest possible date. It is not as though the Australian High Court has not been capable of handling all cases emanating from Australia. Whilst perhaps it was arguable at the time of Federation that an Australian superior court could not recruit within Australia men of sufficiently high learning and experience to deal with the more complex cases coming before the court, subsequent events proved that, far from being incapable of providing judges of the highest calibre, Australia has had the good fortune to produce jurists who have shown themselves as world leaders in their field. Men such as Griffiths, Isaacs, Higgins, Evatt, Fullagar, Latham and Dixon would have added lustre to any superior court in Britain or anywhere else, and the frequency with which such men have been quoted in the Privy Council shows how eminent they were. 
The Australian federal system creates a great deal of confusion in the minds of jurists outside this country. Only those who have grown up and matured within the system can have any appreciation of how it really works. To suggest that an English, Irish or Scottish judge sitting in the remoteness of London can understand the dichotomy of the Federal-State system is absurd. The utter confusion apparent in the minds of Privy Councillors in the early section 92 cases led, in the estimation of many lawyers, to the appalling difficulties we now have with this unhappy section of the Constitution. The States which say that they still favour appeals have no concrete reasons for their action. Is it that they do not believe that we are in a position to order our own legal affairs or could it be that they wish to complicate, exacerbate and add to the heavy costs of government in this country by using for political purposes the remaining right to Privy Council appeals and so-called advisory opinions by having outside courts deal with issues which should really be the concern of Australians alone? 
As far as appeals are concerned, if the States support these still, the onus is surely on them to rebut what Alfred Deakin said at Federation, and I conclude by quoting Deakin 's remarks that the conservative classes, the legal profession and all people of wealth' desire to retain appeals to the Privy Council. I commend both Bills to the House. 
-I rise to support both Bills. I have 2 observations to make on the speech of the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony).  The first is that he blames this Government for running the firms he mentioned into deficit. The action which resulted in those firms running into deficit was taken by the Government of which he was a member. During the double dissolution debate on the Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill and in some of my subsequent speeches in this House I have shown that previous Tory governments have failed to control and prevent the takeover of the Australian mining industry by overseas corporations. The fiscal policies of the previous Government virtually forced new mining companies in Australia to seek foreign investment. Had the previous Government been prepared to create a development corporation, aimed at promoting Australian ownership rather than the present hamstrung, emasculated structure to which the Opposition paid only lip service, which this BUI is trying to replace, it would have been possible to finance the development of Aus.tralian rnining from internal funds and to retain control of Australian mining companies. 
Before considering how the proposed Corporation, if it had been in existence, could have prevented the inroads made by multinationals, there are a couple of points that I believe ought to be considered. Foreign investment, it has to be admitted, may have associated economic benefits to Australia which represent little or no extra cost to the investor. Perhaps those benefits could be briefly summarised as technical knowledge, mine management, marketing knowledge and access to overseas money markets. However, the cost to Australia of obtaining these questionable benefits was the loss of control over the exploration and exploitation of our natural resources resulting from a small number of multinational mining companies having a very strong control over pricing and the sale of raw materials. This control was perpetuated by control over manufacturing industries and possession on a global view of the particular market. At present the only controls that we have over mining are through our taxing policy- that is royalties- or through export licences. In the short term royalties could be determined, project by project, and could be made variable over time to enable the owner of the resource- that is Australia- to extract the rent element of higher prices or to reduce royalties to allow the mine to be efficiently operated during periods of weak demand, increased competition or extraction of more costly but economical ore lodes. On a long term basis, however, it is essential that Australia should regain control of its mineral resources by direct investment, such as from a development corporation. 
The whole concept as envisaged by the previous Tory Government was that we would buy back a bit of Australia. To do that it needs to permit greater flexibility in its role as a development financier and to facilitate public involve- ment in national interest projects. I find it very odd that the Leader of the Country Party should oppose a BUI that Will provide capital for co-operatives, because that is what this BUI does. Why should the Country Party want to oppose it? It is remarkable. 
Having said that, let me make some very brief but crucial observations. Firstly, very little about this legislation is unique. The only aspect of it that is unique is that Australia is the last progressive country in the world to enact legislation of this type. Secondly, peoples and governments are challenging the right of large corporations, particularly in the United States of America, to control and manipulate resources, particularly natural resources, upon which their standard of living depends and to which their economy is extremely sensitive or vulnerable. Thirdly, governments over the past 3 years, particularly since the OPEC price hike, have been forced to reevaluate their natural resources management, based upon and because of the need to gauge international supply and demand factors. Finally, no nation can stand aside and permit either private capital or restricted and selfish State interest to plunder and pillage natural resources whose depletion can reduce it to economic destitution. 
The attitude and policies of the Opposition have always been so and are exemplified in this Bill. The Opposition has a prolific capacity for trotting out cliches on every occasion. It has hung one on this Bill. It has said that it is 'socialism by stealth'. Let me expose this claptrap for what it is. I point out that the mining projects in Australia compare in size, volume, output and importance with any mining projects anywhere in the world. 
Let me look at what the policies of the present Opposition achieved over 23 years. Let me deal briefly with Thiess-Peabody-Mitsui, a consortium in which Peabody Coal has a 58 per cent equity and Mitsui a 20 per cent equity, with the balance being held by Australians. It ought to be noted that Thiess Bros hawked the Moura project in Queensland around Australia for 4 years before it could get it off the ground. We ought to realise that the consortium exports from the Moura field alone at the rate of 3 800 000 tonnes of coal a year. In line with the price increases, there should be a revenue increase to that company of $ 1 8.6m in a full year. I have not the up to date figures. The profit of this consortium averaged almost $5m over the past 4 years. Similarly, the Thiess Holdings South Blackwater mine can expect a revenue lift of $4.4m in the year ahead. AH told, the recent price increases in coal will add an estimated $ 1 1 3.9m to the annual revenue of central Queensland coking coal producers. These figures need to be updated. But this return could be destroyed by the irresponsible, ridiculous and utterly stupid statements of the Queensland Premier in the last week. 
Thiess Bros at least had the foresight, the vision, the courage and the confidence in Australian management and technical expertise to take on this venture. Formerly, it was a contractor to the Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Authority. It is one of the best constructing firms in Australia. But at that time neither the private sector nor the Tory governments, State or Federal, were prepared to underpin it by a cent. One Sydney firm- so much for private enterpriseoffered Thiess Bros money at an interest rate of approximately 32 per cent. This extortionate level of interest epitomises the degree of confidence of the private sector and Tory governments in this country. The result of that response was that Australia lost to overseas, both in terms of ownership and in terms of control, one of the biggest coal mining projects in Australia. That money- honourable members can estimate how over 20 years that profit will escalate- ought to be returned to this nation and not remitted overseas. 
I take next the example of the Utah undertaking which is a classic example of the failure of the Tory Government in Queensland which sold out to such an exent that the only equity that we have in Utah is 10 per cent. The Leader of the Country Party stood here before I rose to speak and said what the Government proposes to do. What has the Opposition done? In the course of the Joint Sitting I made reference to another national sellout. I refer to the Hamersley deposits in Western Australia. Hamersley Holdings Ltd is almost totally overseas controlled, with the exception of the 1 1.5 per cent Australian equity. The balance is carved up between the Kaiser Corporation and Conzinc Riotinto of Australia or the Rio Tinto Zinc Corporation. I ask for leave to incorporate in Hansard 3 tables which illustrate the argument that I am about to make. I have shown them to the appropriate member of the Opposition. I do not know whether he approved their incorporation. 

<graphic href="093131197502195_85_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="093131197502195_85_2.jpg"></graphic>

-I thank the House. The first table sets out the capital growth of Hamersley 
Holdings Ltd. The second table shows the share movements in that company. The final table sets out the iron ore reserves in the HamersleyPilbara leases. If honourable members take the opportunity to study Table III they will find that the ore reserves in the Hamersley-Pilbara area are about 3.5 billion tonnes. 
Let us look a little more deeply into this aspect. The development of Mount Tom Price to a production capacity of 17.5 million tonnes a year required a capital investment of $392m, which was expended between 1966 and the end of 1970. The second stage of development of the Pilbara by Hamersley required a further expenditure of $3 50m. This expansion program increased the production capacity of Mt Tom Price to 25 million tonnes a year. The Paraburdoo deposit also was developed. So the total capacity of the Hamersley operation from the end of 1973 was 40 million tonnes a year. The total development had cost Hamersley over $750m, of which 46 per cent was raised overseas, mainly in North America, and 54 per cent in Australia. Funds raised from the Australian capital market accounted for only 16 per cent of the total,  whereas 38 per cent had been generated internally by retained profits, depreciation or deferred tax. 
This is very important: The company has an authorised capital comprising 300 million ordinary shares of 25c each. The issued capital of the company is 242 550 000 20c shares with a full value of $60.6375m. The history of the capital growth of Hamersley is shown in Table I, which I commend to honourable members. When CRA and Kaiser set up Hamersley, CRA invested $27m for 60 per cent ownership, while Kaiser invested $18m for the remaining 40 per cent. Subsequent share movements and substantial sales are shown in Table II. The present share breakdown is as follows: CRA 54 per cent; Kaiser 28.3 per cent; the Austraiian public 1 1.5 per cent; and a Japanese consortium 6.2 per cent. 
For the period 1966-1973 Hamersley earned $840m which yielded a net profit of $153m after tax. Of this profit $67m was paid out in dividends. Australia retained 16.63 per cent of this profit, or $1 1.3m. Since Hamersley began operations the Western Australian Government has received $52m in royalties. A cash discount determination shows that Kaiser and CRA have had an annual rate of return slightly in excess of 20 per cent. It ought to be remembered that Hancock and Wright receive a royalty of  Vh  per cent of the f.o.b. value of Hamersley exports. Although Hamersley has received an average profit per tonne of $ 1 . 1 3 on sales up to the end of 1974, the recently renegotiated prices, for which this Government takes credit, give a profit margin of approximately 70c per tonne. This apparently is at parity with that received by other iron ore producers. 
I commend the following to honourable members opposite: Assuming the profit level is maintained, when Hamersley production reaches 40 million tonnes a year the company will be receiving a profit of about $28m a year. If the profit level is maintained over the life of both the Mount Tom Price and Paraburdoo deposits, the total profit received by the company will be about $830m from the high grade ores alone. Past performance has been to pay out approximately half the profit in dividends. If this practice were to continue, approximately $400m would be paid out in the next 40 years. 
-It represents $10m a year. Yes, it could pay for the national health scheme for one year. Of the shareholders, 16.63 per cent are Australians. This includes the 9.5 per cent of 
CRA shareholdings. So, only $66.5 will be retained in Australia. Of course, if capital injection ceases in the next half decade, in excess of $640m will be taken from this country during the life of the deposits. 
Let me sum up. It is a very interesting feature of the Hamersley project, upon which this House and this nation's private financial institutions ought to reflect, that all the management and all the expertise in that vast project have been entirely Australian. The project was an outstanding feat of engineering- one of the finest in Australia if not in the world. The whole operation was planned and executed entirely by Australian personnel. Had this very legislation been on the statute book at the birth of the project we as a nation would now, and for the life of the mine's exploitation, have reaped the benefits of a whole range of returns from the 3.5 billion tons of ore to be extracted- had we had the courage, the vision, the faith and the foresight to utilise our own capacities and expertise without being swallowed up by overseas corporations. I commend both Bills to the House. 
-I rise to compliment  Mr Justice  Murphy, the AttorneyGeneral, and the Government for the introduction of this comprehensive Corporations and Securities Industry Bill. This Bill, as it stands, has the effect of bringing under one jurisdiction - 
-The Bill as it stands has the effect of bringing under one jurisdiction control of stock markets and stock exchanges, dealers in securities, accounts and audit of accounts of registered companies, raising of moneys from the public involving scrutiny of prospectuses and trust deeds as regards the issue of shares, debentures and units in unit trust funds, and the disclosure of substantial shareholdings and takeovers of registered corporations. Surely there is not one member of this House who would question the need for this Bill. The need for this type of comprehensive legislation has been deeply considered and amply demonstrated, not only by the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange but also by British governments of both Tory and Labour persuasions and by the Government of the United States as far back as 1930. They, like us, were faced with individuals who literally made themselves millionaires through insider trading and have now taken or are taking the appropriate steps to stop such noxious practices. If any honourable member desires to oppose this Bill on the grounds of States rights then I refer that member to the leading article in the 'Financial Review' in July last year which suggested that such an argument would be 'the last refuge of scoundrels'. Indeed, the question of leaving regulatory machinery to the States appears to have been dealt a death blow since the Senate Select Committee demonstrated the possibility of setting up a brokers head office in one State with a branch office in another whereby the activities of the branch office would fall outside the jurisdiction of the State in which it operated and be unknown to the State authorities to which it was legally answerable. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  referred to an authoritarian structure in the Bill. Where authoritative control is in fact fragmented, thieves can have a picnic. They have had a harvest for 23 years. It is essential that the Corporations and Exchange Commission which this Bill seeks to set up shall have the powers to function in the manner intended, both as to efficiency and speed. The penalties provided in the Bill are considerable but there are still a large number of offences involving companies and officers of companies which are outside the ambit of the present Bill. Some of these, however, are currently found in the existing provisions of the State company and criminal law legislation. As the Bill now stands there will be considerable overlapping of functions. In particular, there will be some overlapping of the existing State criminal laws relating to offences by directors and officers of companies. For example, I refer to the South Australian Criminal Law Consolidation Act. Just briefly on this aspect, I note the speeches and utterances lately of  Mr Valder  and despite all his platitudes and despite what the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition said, there is no doubt, in my view, that the whole conservative ilk believe in reform- provided it changes nothing. 
The stock exchanges had drawn up and supposedly were working to their own rules and regulations which, if they had been adhered to, would at least have pre-empted some of the shocks that their members received from the Senate Committee report on the industry, but they failed to do so. Not only in one telling incident was the desire to police themselves apparently absent, but also they had neither the time nor the powers necessary to perform such a function. Where deficiencies were suspected explanations were called for but books unfortunately were not examined. Nor are the powers available to the stock exchange committees to examine the records of persons and companies who are not members. The Companies Act, under Part 6A, enables an officer to be appointed to a company to inspect its books, correspondence and documents where fraud or misdemeanour are suspected. This authority was instrumental in bringing to light the activities of the Korman group of companies. The Commission to be set up under this legislation will have those powers under clauses 63 (2), 263 and 100. Does anybody suggest that if they are authoritarian they are not justified? There is no other method by which the job required can be done. There is no other way, for instance, to ascertain that a client's money is paid into a dealer's trust account on the next day after receipt that the banks are open for business if on that date securities owing to that client are not deliverable. Even though the stock exchange Committees must now abdicate their roles as final arbiters in their industry, they should remain the immediate watch-dogs who bark on suspicion. 
The Senate Select Committee has performed a service in outlining an almost hour by hour account on insider trading in the Poseidon affair. We ought to have a look at that shocking scandal.  Mr Burrill,  senior consulting geologist for Poseidon, informed the Senate Select Committee that on 24 September 1969 shortly after 9 a.m. he saw a change of coloration corning out of the P.H.2 drill-hole. This is what he said: 
I am almost certain I could see nickel sulphides in it. I could see copper sulphides very clearly. 
That same afternoon  Mr Burrill's  associate, Jones, flew to Adelaide and saw Shierlaw. On 25 September Shierlaw bought approximately 29 000 Poseidon shares for companies in which he had a major interest, for Burrill's similar interests and for Jones. In respose to a query from the Adelaide Stock Exchange on 25 September at I p.m. the Poseidon directors informed that exchange: 'No assay results are available. The Board is unable to explain the sharp increases in the price of shares. ' After this cynical announcement and throughout the following day Shierlaw and the geologists continued to buy Poseidon shares. Both the gains and the losses involved by buyers and sellers on those 2 days were substantial. An inspection of the books of companies similiary situated after the event would be time consuming and expensive and an attempt to right any wrongs committed even more so. 
The Commission to be set up under this Bill will be given the power to establish stock exchange rules. I commend to the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Enderby)  the functions of the New York Stock Exchange to establish a set of norms both as to price and volume fluctuations in each listed security and to suspend trading in any shares for 24 hours at any time that either of those norms are exceeded or until explanatory information is received and published. Let us have a look at how such a rule would have operated had it in fact been in operation at the time of the Poseidon incident. The closing price on 24 September 1969 for Poseidon shares was $1.12. On 25 September, under the influence of Shierlaw 's heavy purchasing, the closing price was $1.65, a rise of 47 per cent. On Friday, 26 September, and with Shierlaw a purchaser throughout the day, the shares rose to $1.94, 73 per cent above the previous Wednesday's price. Had the New York rule which I am advocating been operative and had the trip-point to activate the rule been set at a generous 15 per cent there would have been no sales of Poseidon shares above $1.29 on 25 September. Assuming that an unsuspecting stock exchange had accepted the directors' statement and relisted the shares on 26 September the trip-point would again have been activated at $1.48. The sins of Poseidon were essentially insider trading carried on by servants of the company and the public investor on the basis of knowledge that was almost exclusively theirs and was not available to sellers. The directors were being paid by the company, that is, by the shareholders, for their services as also were the geologists. In the year to 30 June 1969 Poseidon's directors received $4,000 to apportion between themselves. 
I wrote on 7 February to the State AttorneyGeneral following a declaration by the Adelaide Stock Exchange that Poseidon- just look at the load of conspiracy in Poseidon- accumulated about $1.4m. They were fined $2,000 by the 
Adelaide Stock Echange and suspended for 6 months. Yet a girl from my area who took a record from a music shop spent a month in the Windanna remand home. Now, where is the sense of justice? I asked that question of the Attorney-General in South Australia. I quote from the letter that I sent to him. I wrote: 
As you would have noted, the Adelaide Stock Exchange issued a Press statement on 14 December claiming that action had been taken but did not indicate the person charged. However, on 24 December this was revealed as being Shierlaw. I would appreciate if you could let me know whether you intend to take action against Shierlaw and his co-directors as a consequence of the fine and suspension imposed by the Stock Exchange against him. 
Finally, if the evidentiary provisions of the law militate against a successful prosecution, I wonder whether it is proposed by the South Australian Government to amend the aw so that future public frauds can be brought to justice. 
I await an answer to that request. 
It is, however, not the punitive but the weakness of the deterrent effect of clause 125 (1) in this Bill which concerns me. The Bill provides for penalties of $10,000 or 2 years' imprisonment for an individual convicted of insider trading. But the penalty for a company so convicted- and for the experienced, the use of a private company is the norm- is only $50,000. The Senate Select Committee report informs us that Messrs Burrill and Associates through insider trading made a profit of $ 1.4m. Even after paying capital gains tax and the penalty of $50,000, this company could at least visit its bank with an amused facial expression. To have the deterrent effect that is required, I would consider it necessary that the penalty for a company convicted of insider trading should be substantially increased at the upper limit. 
I turn to what I consider to be a more grave section of the Bill. I want to be constructive about this aspect. I am dealing with clauses 198 and 210. Whilst the fortunes and misfortunes of the Poseidon affair were largely the separating of some gamblers from their gambling chips, the management of mutual funds and unit trusts is vital to many of the relatively small investors. It is precisely here that our legislation, in my view, ought to be watertight. By 1970 many people had learned from experience that, in a time of rising prices, interest rates and wages, their savings invested in fixed interest securities had deteriorated in value. They had every reason to conclude that further savings entrusted to the highly qualified Minsec directors would be safe. Have a look at the talent! There were a geologist and a mining engineer, a chartered accountant, an actuary and a company director for the boards of Minsec mutual funds. Equally dazzling, on paper, was the talent of the separate but attendant 'fund management company' called Equity Funds of Australia Ltd which was given the duty of advising the Fund's board of directors on investments. This group tossed into the mix 2 gentlemen who were both graduates of the University of Sydney and the Harvard Business School. One must have that piece of sheepskin to hang up; it gives one a sense of credibility. 
Not only did this group lose a quarter of its investors' savings, in the case of one fund, but the remaining savings were frozen and in the case of one fund were unredeemable for 20 months after the Minsec collapse. For the government of that day, as well as for ourselves, both wanting to see a maximum of Australian interests in Australian hands, a greater disaster and disservice in the securities industry could hardly have been envisaged. Similar manipulation occurred within the mutual funds. 
To the list of persons nominated in this Bill for whom it is mandatory to register with the Corporations and Exchange Commission- that is, dealers in shares, dealers' representatives, investment advisers and investment representatives, as set out in Division 1 of Part V- I would like to see added 'managers of publicly listed mutual funds and unit trusts, and all persons serving on the boards of publicly listed mutual funds and unit trusts'. It is to be hoped also that the mandatory registration of these company officers will end the frequently enacted case of the disappearing directors. 
When trouble is suspected, when answers to questions are most required by authorities, shareholders and depositors, directors are frequently neither available nor even traceable. Difficulty was experienced in finding the head of the H. G. Palmer organisation and more recently the directors of Cambridge Credit were equally unavailable when required. Registration with the Commission and the threat of deregistration for defined unacceptable behaviour might control such actions. So serious in their consequences were the actions of the managers of the Minsec Mutual Funds and the Trendex Mutual Fund that I would like to see clause 2 18 of the Bill extended to read:  218 (2) (c) A complete list of all the investments of the Corporation showing the description and  quantitites  of such investment shall be posted to all members of the Company at their last registered address at no greater than 6 monthly intervals. 
This the better trusts and funds already do. 
Whilst the Minsec funds did not founder before Minsec itself, in the early stages of their formation the funds took grave risks making loans of up to $7.8m to Minsec in June 1970. Consequently I suggest there be added to the Bill a clause 213 (3) to clarify any possible confusion between the words 'investing' and 'lending', in these terms:  213 (3) An investment corporation shall not lend an amount of money in excess of 5 per cent of net tangible assets to any one corporation or business other than to a registered Australian bank. 
I wish to deal briefly with 2 aspects before I conclude. 
I have always had a concern that the structure of the courts in this country has never been efficient enough to hang a case on the perpetrators of corporate crimes. In all sincerity, I ask the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  to note this point: One ofthe main difficulties associated with corporate crime is not so much the reliability of the kind of evidence tendered by the prosecution but that the traditional jury by the very nature of its composition is generally unable to appreciate and evaluate the evidence placed before it. I vividly recall the Davco case in Adelaide. I am sure to this day that the jury had no knowledge at all of the manipulations of the directors in that case. This is so in commercial transactions especially those conducted by large corporations which are complex, and particularly those where a computerised record keeping machinery is used. 
It seems to me therefore that, apart from improving the rules of evidence- and in this regard, a draft Bill recommended by the Law Reform Commission on Evidence Within (Business Records) of New South Wales is worth considering the jury panels should be constituted of persons familiar with mercantile practice. In considering such a proposal, several questions arise. They are: First, the size of the jury; secondly, special qualifications; thirdly, unanimity or majority verdict; fourthly, availability of transcript of evidence; and fifthly, exemptions from jury service. There are other matters. But I feel sure that aspects such as unanimity or majority verdict, availability of transcript of evidence and exemptions from jury service can contructively and sensibly be overcome. 
As I understand it, the financial backing of a large slice of our industries stems not from the small coterie of wealthy members of our community but from the vast number of small investors. In my view, stock exchanges have been constructed to protect more the former than the latter. The latter category supply the finance, make the' market and, above all, promote the confidence' in ventures so important for the economic growth of this country. It is not from this section, in my view, that we find the short sellers, the manipulators, the spivs and the charlatans, for individually they do not have the finance; indeed, they are rather the victims of the system. 
 I conclude on this point: It is part of the misery of the report of the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange, as well as part of its great utility to us as legislators, that it was compiled during the dying throes of this spectacular boom. During that boiling, scum came to the surface and gamblers were attracted into the industry as rarely ever before. If it were not for the actions of this Government and that Senate Select Committee, my view is that these people may never have been nailed on the board. But investment in the broad sense, both public and private, remains the lifeblood of the prosperity of all countries. It differentiates between the developed and the underdeveloped. It is the determinant of the standard of living of all our people. No country with a mixed economy can afford lack of confidence in its investment machinery. I intimate to the Attorney-General that there are some 5 or 6 clauses on which, at the Committee stage of the Bill, I look forward to making some constructive contributions. I commend the Attorney-General as I commend the Government on the introduction of this legislation. I commend the Bill to the House. 
-I will be brief. I share the concern of the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  in relation to unit trusts, but I am rather inclined to the view that the position is covered elsewhere in the Bill. I trust that it will be. I will speak on that provision when it comes up. I address myself to the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Enderby).  I will be very brief. I have had a number of requests for an explanation from companies that handle or assist in trading in their own shares. Do they have to be licensed under the provisions of this Bill as a stock exchange? 
-I refer to the matter of unit trusts because it is a matter which does worry me a little. 
-No, I accept the definition of the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  but I just want to ask the Attorney-General to consider, when we come to deal with Division 1 in Part V, including that provision for unit trusts in what is in effect a register of different classes of people. I intend to raise the very same point in relation to unit trusts when we are dealing with clauses 213 and 2 1 8, as I mentioned last night. This is a point about which I have been asked on numerous occasions since the Bill was introduced, and I again ask the Attorney-General: If a company handles or assists in its own shares transactions, does it have to list itself, within the provisions of this Bill, as a stock exchange? 
I have a question to ask the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly).  Why is it that governments are requested to protect the public? Perhaps I could give him a good simile. For 3 years in this Parliament I attempted to get a Federal Act to cover the insurance field because it had failed to regulate itself in the same way as the stock exchanges. Only 3 months ago there was the collapse of the Northumberland Insurance Co. Ltd in my home State of South Australia. That company had branches throughout Australia. It collapsed because the directors never had enough financial acumen to place their investments in a proper order to protect their policyholders. What was the result of that collapse? One morning thousands of policyholders found that they had no coverage whatsoever. I suggest to the honourable member for Bradfield that the Acts of this Parliament in that area have been colonial in content. The Act in the United Kingdom gives complete powers regarding investment. For what purposes are those powers given? It is to protect policy holders. This Government and the Attorney-General have a right to protect the people, and that is precisely what this Bill sets out to do. 
I just want to refer to the point which the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  raised on 2 occasions and which was mentioned also by one other honourable member. It refers to clause 60, dealing with the power of the Commission to prohibit trading on the stock market. Quite frankly, we should look at the sheer mechanics of this if we are to be either effective or efficient. I think that largely we are dealing here with the machinations relating to insider trading as referred to in clause 123. 
-In fairness, I thought I outlined that rather adequately last night; but I will repeat it. I think I ought to do so because the honourable member for Moreton is sincere in his concern about this provision. What I want to put to the chamber, as I did last night, is why the Commission ought to have the power and not leave appeals for 6 months if we want to prevent trading in a certain number of shares. For instance, let me refer to Poseidon. This is what I said last night, and I commend this to honourable members particularly for their early consideration: 
I commend to the Attorney-General the functions of the New York Stock Exchange to establish a set of norms both as to price and volume fluctuations in each listed security and to suspend trading in any shares for 24 hours at any time that either of those norms are exceeded or until explanatory information is received and published. 
All I am suggesting is that if the trip-point had been reached in the Poseidon affair on the first or second day of trading the Commission would have stepped in and said: 'You have a margin of 15 per cent. If you trigger that trip-point trading will be suspended until we are satisfied that the board of directors or whoever it is that is trading in the shares is acting in the best interests '. If that had occurred the Poseidon scandal would never have reached any proportions at all. I put this to chamber honestly and sincerely. On the sheer mechanics of this, if the Commission or even the stock exchange is not given the power which the New York Stock Exchange has it will mean that should appeals arise people in similar situations to those in the Poseidon affair will be able to get away with exactly the same sort of scandal. 
-I have sufficient trust in the proposed Commission as one ought to have in these matters. This is a failure on the part of the stock exchanges themselves because either they did not want to exercise the power or they did not have the regulations to do this sort of thing. Had they had the power and had they taken that action, a lot of heartache would have been saved in this country in the 1969 boom. If we are effectively to cover insider trading which is referred to in clause 123, this sort of provision is inevitable; it must be. 
I want to make a few brief observations on this matter. I think I touched on it last night. The so-called home of capitalism, which is the United States, has the power to suspend trading, and it was introduced for a very good reason. Once again I think I mentioned that last night. It was introduced back in the 1930s because of runs on the stock exchange which brought financial chaos to the American economy. President Roosevelt had to do 2 things when he came to office. 
The honourable member interjects and says: 'When it can be'. I am telling him when it was. 
Opposition members are great people for citing the capitalist system. They like all that is good in it but will not accept all that is bad about it. President Roosevelt had 2 tasks to face. 
I suggest that the honourable member has another look at the activities of the stock exchanges over the past 2 years. 
I do not know that it was because of our policies. In fact, it is people who machinate on the stock exchanges who have got us in the position in which we find ourselves today. We will find that the Government is going to be asked to prop up capitalism in a lot of other areas by legislative means. President Roosevelt had to regulate the stock exchanges and the banking institutions. It was because of their failure to act responsibly in a corporate national sense that he was forced to enact the powers that we want in this particular legislation. The mere fact that the power is there ought to exercise sufficient restraint and responsibility on people who move into the stock market to ensure that we have no recourse to the legislation. 

The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Lucock)Order!  I suggest that the honourable member for Hawker be allowed to make his speech without interruption. 
I conclude on this point: I trust that the power never has to be used. If there is responsibility in a capital market there will never have to be recourse to it. It is a provision which in the current situation any government certainly ought to have. 
-Like the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen),  I suggest that the Attorney-General might look at a couple of provisions. I suggest that the following paragraphs should be added to clause 115: 
is a dealers representative under clause 69; or 
is a licensed investment adviser under clause 68 ( 1 ). 
I note what the honourable member for Moreton has said, but it was symptomatic at the end of the mining boom that many companies were floated- I think this is what we are worried about- for the declared purpose of acquiring shares in other mining companies or of profiting from trading in a particular commodity. Inevitably, sharebrokers could boost their normal commission income by obtaining directorships of companies and making share purchases through sales in their office. This happened with Poseidon, Queensland Mines Ltd, and Mainland 
Corporation Ltd when in fact directors were underwriters or brokers and recommended shares to their clients. I think this happened with Australian Continental Resources and the Trendex Mineral Corporation. They all proved adept at generating commission income for sharebroking directors whilst failing dismally and returning nothing but losses for their shareholders. 
In the advisory capacity towards the client it is obvious that the sharebroker and director faces another conflct of interest. This was not mentioned in the Rae report and I am not relying on that report. Companies desirous of expanding or perhaps suffering temporary liquidity problems may need borrowing and/or an injection of new capital. Difficulties arise, particularly during a period of tight money, when banks and finance nouses become unco-operative. We have been through this position. If a company's shares stand at close at their par value on the marketshareholders, like investors, are loath to pay 50c for an item if they can get it for 45c- both the company's welfare and even possibly the directors job may require that shares stand at a healthy premium on the market if the new issue of capital is to be raised. I thought that would have been obvious. Lenders of fixed interest money quickly become aware of the low share price, and this is a prime indication of a poor dividend covering falling profitability. The highest interest rates are obviously desired. 
I put this to the Attorney-General in all fairness: How then can a sharebroker-adviser, unless he is an outstanding leader in his field, not recommend for purchase of shares in a company of which he is a director? The unwitting investor all too often jumps to the conclusion that the reverse is true; in other words, that his adviser, being a director of the company, is privy to all sorts of possibilities. It is interesting to note that since 1969 the rules of the Perth Stock Exchange explicitly forbid a member being also a company director. In view of this local ruling, which has been both agreed and enforced by the Western Australian share-brokers, I cannot understand the statement of  Mr Valder,  the  Chairman  of the Sydney Stock Exchange, which appeared in the  Australian ' only recently: 
We believe that such areas of potential conflict can probably be regulated with appropriate penalties, but that brokers should not be singled out and totally banned from acting as directors. 
I agree with that but only on the ground that the Attorney-General expand the clause by the inclusion of the 2 provisions to which I have referred. 
-We are dealing with debentures which affect a wide range of small investors and retired people. I understand that there are about 630,000 people who hold debentures or unsecured notes. The tragedy, whether we like it or not, is that many investors who hold debentures hold the false belief that they are the first to be paid in the event of the company being wound up. In fact criteria are laid down by the life offices to guard debenture holders. I sincerely suggest that the Government give consideration to the incorporation of those criteria in these provisions, to protect debenture holders. Building societies, for instance, in South Australia are not allowed, as to the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  would be aware, by the Public Actuary to lend to big hire purchase companies. If that provision had applied earlier many small investors in Cambridge Credit would certainly have been saved. I think there ought to be more adequate provisions to  cover debenture holders within the provisions of the Bill. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 167 to 170- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 171 (Criminal and civil liability for statements in prospectus). 
-Before we pass clause 181 can I solicit an indication from the Attorney-General that he will give consideration to the points I have raised. Will he indicate that? 
Clauses agreed to. 
Clause 187. 
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, a notice, circular or other instrument inviting the making of deposits with, or the lending of moneys to, an exempt corporation as defined by section 159 or offering to accept deposits with, or loans to, such a corporation shall, for the purposes of this Division, be deemed not to be a prospectus in relation debentures of the corporation. 
-I raised last night the necessity for additional provisions to safeguard people with unit trusts and mutual trusts. Can I get an undertaking that the Government will give further consideration to this matter? 
Clauses 188 to 262- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 263 (Power of Commission to obtain information, documents and evidence). 
I address a question to the Minister for Minerals and Energy with a great deal of alacrity. In view of the record profit of $70m said to have been made in Queensland this year by Utah Mining Australia Limited, in which we have only 10 per cent Australian equity, I ask the Minister: What are the mining rights of Utah Mining Australia Limited in the Queensland Bowen Basin? What steps does the Government intend to take to increase the level of Australian equity in the vast Utah holdings in the Bowen Basin? 
My question, which is directed to the Treasurer, deals with the Australian 
Government superannuation scheme. Can he inform the House as to progress of the proposed superannuation scheme for Australian Government employees? When will the legislation be ready for introduction into the House and when will the scheme be in operation? Is he aware that the scheme is anxiously awaited by more than 250 000 Australian public servants? Does he believe that the scheme will serve as a useful model for private sector employees, their union organisations and their employers? 
I address my question to the Prime Minister. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) As the Australian Government insurance legislation is very similar in structure to that of The Insurance Companies ' Act 1 974 of the United Kingdom, will he give urgent consideration to having incorporated into the Australian legislation provisions dealing with (a) control of insurance company investments and (b) oversights of the suitability of directors and other executive officers of such companies. 
In relation to the Insurance Acts 1973, will he take steps to have it amended by including a new section 2lA similar to section 7 of the United Kingdom Act, with consequential amendments to sections 22 and 27. 
Will he also take steps (a) to amend section 29 by inserting a new provision that a person is not a fit and proper person to manage the affairs of a body corporate, (b) to amend section 52 by inserting the provision in section 39 of the United Kingdom Act, (c) to insert new sections 62a, 62b and 62c similar to sections 52, 53 and 54 of the United Kingdom Act and (d) to amend section 30 to incorporate the investment provisions contained in section 30 of the United Kingdom Act. 
Will he also give urgent consideration to having similar amendments made to the Life Insurance Act 1945-1973. 
-I rise to support the Australian Government Insurance Office Bill 1975. Governments, both Federal and State, have constitutional and legislative obligations in the area of insurance. The Australian Government has a national responsibility to ensure that the community has maximum access to, and protection from, as wide a range of insurance coverage as possible. This Bill is structured to achieve just that. Government penetration will have reverberations throughout the industry and the community. It is important that this step- the setting up of a corporation- ought to be examined, argued and debated in a rational and objective manner. If one is to gauge anything from the campaign of opposition being waged by certain sections, particularly those with vested interests in the status quo, frankly it is that this national forum is to be the only arena where the matter can be debated with an absence of hysteria or intimidation. 
The Federal Government can extend this cover of security in a number of ways and for very cogent reasons. Firstly, it can do so by legislative act subject to section 5 1 of the Constitution. This is not an exclusive power; we share it with the States. Secondly, it may become directly involved. This is not unique, although the Opposition would try to convey to the public the idea that it is. Thirdly, we can have government direct involvement, supervision, control or regulation of the insurance industry, which I believe to be obligatory for the following reasons: With the increase in the number of policy holders, and its extension to all classes of society, insurance has become an institution in the service of the public- a fact which has become obvious over recent years. The need for protection of insured and victims must surely take precedence over the motive of commercial gain. Fourthly, and perhaps the most telling argument in support of the setting up of this corporation, is that the one important asset that the public corporation has over the private sector is that its activities, the class of insurance that it underwrites, its contractual obligations, the wording of its policies, the way it deals with and resolves claims made upon it and the areas within which it deploys or invests its funds, are all subject to public scrutiny. All these activities are subject to public scrutiny and public accountability, and above all require vindication by the public and by this Parliament. If honourable members opposite are not aware of this I can assure them that the public is. There are thousands upon thousands of ordinary policy holders and people in this country who have been literally forced, coerced and intimidated by insurance companies to reach settlements at a lesser figure than they ought to accept. The pub.lic corporation that we are setting up must take account of all its activities before the public. A private company, as a corporate body, is only in fact responsible to its shareholders. When is a director of a board of any company obliged to stand before a national forum and justify his company's activities for good or bad? The one avenue that a policy holder has to test a private company's accountability is through litigation. The proposed corporation's accountability is to the public and to the Parliament. 
Let me make the fifth point. It is quite false and utterly misleading to claim- as private insurers have tried to put over this country in recent weeks- that both private insurers and State government insurers have met fully the needs of insurance demands in this country. Let me take the State component first. Quite obviously there is a deficiency in the State government insurance offices, obviously because of constitutional, legislative and geographical limitations. Secondly, and importantly 4 out of the 6 States have been forced by political machinations by Tory governments to operate within restricted parameters of franchise. They are in fact permitted to operate only in the deficit or sink end of the insurance market and not in the profitable areas. In other words, they are restricted to general insurance and not life assurance. 
That is an interesting interjection. In Victoria they are restricted to 2 classes of general insurance and the Tory government in Victoria refused to extend the franchise to its own office in that State. There are only 2 State government insurance offices in Australia that have full and open franchise, namely those of New South Wales and Queensland. Both the Tory governments in those States have made sure that their State insurance offices get only a limited access to the life market. The State insurance office in Queensland gets 19 per cent of the premiums paid and the State insurance office in New South Wales gets 9 per cent. 
Under this legislation for the first time at a national level and on a national plane, there is to be real across-the-board competition. It ought to be realised that Australia is unique. It has vast distances and its large populations are located in a very few urban areas. Although we are prone to natural disasters, which will continue to devastate this country, we have a situation in which many people and businesses are unable to obtain adequate insurance cover. The insurance industry has been and is still deficient in many areas. Only 10 per cent of the people whose property was devastated in the Brisbane flood were covered by flood insurance. There was completely inadequate cover. One ought to take account of the fact that since the floods which devastated not only Brisbane but also much of the rest of the eastern seaboard some large insurers are refusing to underwrite this type of insurance, particularly in north Queensland. Equally disturbing in recent years has been the withdrawal of many general insurers from country areas. To make this situation worse, many large general insurers are terminating agency agreements in country areas, which reduces still further the ability of country people to get adequate cover. Of course, the plea is that insurance activities in this field are no longer profitable. It is argued, after all, that insurance companies are in business to make a profit for their shareholders. But this commercial philosophy is no consolation to country people. In effect the private sector says that if a particular class of insurance is unprofitable the insurance industry should simply refuse to underwrite it, whether or not the people want it, industry wants it, trade wants it or commerce wants it. 
The tendency of private insurers to withdraw from so-called unprofitable insurance will continue despite the call for a need for such classes of insurance to be underwritten. Further, there are limited markets of certain types of risks that insurers are loath to underwrite. A case in point is the mining industry. Difficulty is also being experienced by heavy haulage and transport operators who cannot find coverage. This is a serious situation, especially if one adds to it the insurance cover that cannot be obtained for natural disasters which affect crops or livestock, or for damage caused by land slip or flood. This type of insurance cover is vital if this nation is to progress at all. 
Finally let me have a look at the track record of some sections of the insurance industry. Frankly it has not been very good. In recent years the industry has almost reached the stage of destroying much of its standing and credibility. 
Perhaps the right honourable member should listen for another 5 minutes. We ought to examine why governments not only in this country but throughout the would in recent years have been literally forced to take both legislative action and direct involvement to give the community the security that it needs. Over the last 5 years in this country tens of thousands of policy holders have suffered needless hardship, anxiety and financial loss, all the result of the collapse of no fewer than 20 insurance companies. It ought to be noted by the House that the companies collapsed prior to the introduction of the Insurance Acts of 1973. How and why did this happen? It happened firstly because the industry failed to regulate itself. The root cause of that is its very competitive structure. Secondly, the companies failed because of blatant, unscrupulous manipulation and sheer managerial incompetence. Over the last 3 months this country has witnessed the collapse of the Northumberland Insurance Co. Ltd. Again this is a company that collapsed because of sheer incompetent management. It placed all of its assets in the Cambridge investment company, a speculative company. When that company went bankrupt so too did Northumberland. 
In recent weeks I have had 4 employers in my office who regrettably took out policies with Northumberland. So far as South Australia is concerned, there is no nominal defendant provisions in that State's workmans' compensation legislation and Northumberland never reinsured its workers compensation parcel to the level that it should have. I had to tell these people that it looks as though- and this matter has been dealt with in the Equity Court in New South Walesthe employers themselves, who are only ordinary small businessmen, will be up for the total liability. What ought to be made plain to members on the other side of the House and to the nation generally is that there is no room at all in the insurance market for speculators, manipulators or the incompetent. The proposed corporation will ensure the rights of policy holders, in that their guarantee, security and protection will be assured, and that is a lot more than a high proportion of companies in the insurance industry have done over the last 5 years. 
I want to deal briefly with the Insurance Act of 1937-1 973 which I had a lot to do with bringing into this Parliament in 1973. Basically that Act is structured for solvency. It is an Act of supervision; it is not an Act of regulation or control. I pass this warning: Whatever we do by way of legislation, unless and until there is a lot of integrity and honesty built into the insurance industry I would not place all that much trust in this Act. It has a long way to go yet before policy holders will get anywhere near the security they deserve. 
I want to make one reference to a case in the United States of America. If one has any knowledge of the provisions of the Securities and Exchange Commission in the United States, one will know that they are as wide and as restrictive as anywhere in the world. But only last year that country witnessed what has been described in 'Rydges' as the greatest investment scandal in history. The Equity Fund Life Insurance defrauded some 100 000 people and the rake off involved some $100m. As I said earlier, it is quite dangerous to assume that we can bring all the stability which is possible into the insurance industry by legislative action. The other constructive step to be taken is direct involvement. It has been part of the Australian scene in one form or another almost since Federation. State government insurance offices are operating in the insurance field in all States. This Government has been heavily involved in a number of very important areas of insurance for many years. But what I find singularly odd are the arguments being bandied about and the cliches like socialism and nationalisation. 
It is very interesting to note that in New Zealand the Government has been involved in full franchise insurance. It has been involved in life insurance since 1869, in general insurance since 1905 and in natural disaster insurance since 1944. Yet the private insurance industry in New Zealand has lived and survived with this and gone from strength to strength. I think we ought to put aside the cliches and get down to some cold hard facts. It is essential that we examine the insurance needs in 1975 and future years, not the might-have-beens of years past. There is a crucial need for reform, for initiative, for innovation and for revitalisation through out all areas of insurance. Competition is the key factor at which we ought to look. One thing which the Corporation will do is to reform in the following areas: Firstly, the formulation of a series of standard policy clauses to protect policy holders from deception, fraud and exploitation; secondly, examine the need if any for the abolition of arbitration clauses; thirdly, the discrimination against females in sickness and accident policies and in employment opportunities; fourthly, adequate laws are badly needed to govern the standard, training and monitoring of both brokers and agents; and, fifthly, simply, accurate advertising. 
An area in which I think the Government ought to directly involve itself is reinsurance. I have raised the question of marine hull insurance and reinsurance in this House on a number of occasions. As a result of that at least we got 20 per cent of the marine insurance market in Australia instead of 100 per cent being lodged overseas. Almost all direct insurance companies have been forced to seek reinsurance cover overseas. In recent years a number of overseas owned reinsurers have set up offices in Australia but no Australian-owned company of any size has emerged in the field. On present indications I doubt whether any will. For instance, Qantas 
Airways Ltd last year had a total insurance bill of $5m. This year the Australian National Line had to pay insurance of $2m. Where will that be placed? Largely, it will be placed overseas. The Corporation, when it is set up, could inject a new confidence and structure into the Australian direct insurance market by offering to take up a share of the risk on a reinsurance basis. I am not suggesting that the Corporation take all the risks offered or that it fail to spread its own work. The time has come when we, with our strong financial resources, can obtain a large proportion of the risks underwritten in this country. With reinsurance the practice throughout the industry is generally to lay off part of the risk with other insurers or through treaty facilities. 
In all other respects in the financial sense this country seems to have matured to adulthood, but in reinsurance and in some areas of direct general insurance we are very much an underdeveloped country. It ought to be realised that the largest factor in the United Kingdom in relation to invisible earnings is insurance. Most of its marine insurance and reinsurance is sold in Australia and elsewhere. Obviously there is plenty of room to expand into areas where, currently, the problems with insurers is that they have no interest in or connection with Australia other than one based strictly on cash. To me it seems deplorable that over the years the large volume of reinsurance that has gone overseas to the detriment of the Australian market has involved hundreds of millions of dollars. The Corporation could play a very decisive role in ensuring that this vast amount of money is recirculated in the Australian market. The intervention and support by the Corporation to share these risks which otherwise would be placed overseas would be of tremendous benefit in 2 ways. Firstly, it would undoubtedly provide a degree of stability and access to Australian insurers. Secondly, it would result in a substantial saving in foreign exchange and improve our balance of trade. 
I point out that some government involvement and support is undertaken in both France and India with considerable success. I make the following observations to the Government to consider: If the Corporation contemplates creating a reinsurance branch it must first ensure that it has the facilities to reinsure its own portfolio, probably on an excess of loss basis. No doubt this would have to be negotiated overseas. The Corporation would not be able to accept large amounts of reinsurance without having its portfolio protected against a catastrophe, unless of course it is underpinned from Consolidated 
Revenue. Finally, I warn the Government that the proposed Corporation will have to watch that it does not become a sink for the insurance rubbish which is not wanted by either the private insurers or the State government commissions. I support the Bill in the firm belief that this measure will give the community the coverage and security to which it is entitled. I commend the Minister, the Government and the Bill to the House. 
I wish to raise 2 points. Firstly, I wish to put a constructive proposal to the Government and, secondly, to refer to the clause as it relates in particular to the national insurance interest. In the course of my speech at the second reading stage I raised the necessity and importance in this area of insurance of public accountability and public scrutiny. The Australian Government Insurance Corporation will be answerable to this Parliament for its activities, whereas a private insurance company is answerable only to its shareholders. A classic case is the needless hardship, anxiety and concern that have been inflicted on the elderly victims of the Cooma bus tragedy which occurred in New South Wales in September 1973. 1 believe that, if the activities of the Corporation as set out in this clause were applied in respect of this tragedy and to other similar tragedies, much of this needless suffering and hardship could and would be eliminated 
However, before I go into detail, honourable members on both sides of the Committee will be aware that there is a number of international treaties, to which Australia is a signatory, which impose strict liability on, for instance, international air carriers where death or injury is caused as a result of, say, an aircraft mishap. Injured persons and the dependants of those who die or are injured can in such instances receive monetary compensation without proof of fault on the part of the carrier. Unfortunately no such no-fault scheme extends to internal carriers such as bus operators, public transport bodies, etc., in this country with perhaps the exception of Victoria. If the national compensation scheme had been in operation at the time of the Cooma bus disaster, the victims would now have been fully and adequately compensated. In the absence of the benefits of a national compensation scheme, there is an obvious gap. That gap can be constructively closed by the use of this clause of the Bill should such national tragedies occur. 
Honourable members will recall that the bus tragedy at Cooma involved some 38 pensioners from my State of South Australia who had arranged for a holiday in New South Wales. The bus in which these elderly folk were travelling plunged into the Tumut Ponds Dam. I wish to pay tribute to the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  who has tried ever since that day to get the companies to reach a settlement. In that accident 18 people died and 22 pensioners were injured, 10 of them critically. 
AU of the accident victims suffered extensive injuries. As I understand it, not a single survivor paid less than $1,000 in either hospital or medical fees. In addition, some survivors were either husbands or wives of those who died. The victims suffered not only physical injury, but the emotional backlash of the loss of either a wife or a husband with whom they had been partners for over 30 years. The emotional damage is obviously beyond calculation. A protracted coroner's inquest was held in Cooma, but regrettably no specific verdict was returned. I cannot find any trace in the Press of any follow-up since that tragedy. So much for private accountability. Human suffering and anxiety is still being perpetrated on these elderly people who suffered a tremendously traumatic experience. They are still receiving medical bills. They are being hit with 'please pay forthwith' notices. Some of them have paid, others have not. Others do not know what to do. They received letters from solicitors which they cannot comprehend. Since the accident, a further 4 victims have died. 
Quite obviously further delay of settlement of claims will simply mean that whoever is liable will have to pay out less. Brutally stated, the longer those liable delay, the more economic the strategy. I am informed that there is a tripartite defendant structure, that is, there are a number of insurance companies, the bus company and a State Government involved. This obviously creates litigious problems and delays in financial terms. This is a clear example of the kind of delay and dalliance which the insurance companies offer- the kind of protection they seek to inflict upon those aged people and, in fact, the unwary public. 
Those people placed their faith in an insurance company and in Government legislation. They found that whilst there is protection, or alleged protection, in fact they are the victims of a protracted litigation. In this case I am informed that the batting order will be possibly from the Supreme Court to the Full Court to the High Court, and in the case of the insurance companies, to the Privy Council. Can anyone say with any assurance that this will be achieved within 3 years? I repeat, it is sheer blatant economic strategy on the part of the insurance companies. Because of the traditional delay in settling the claims in the court many of the elderly victims of the Cooma bus disaster will be unable to recover their just compensation in their lifetime. 
The Cooma bus disaster is only one of similar disasters in recent years in this country. Where people suffer an injury at the hands of a public utility or a utility approved by public authorities, their only recourse for compensation is through litigation. I recommend to the Government that serious consideration be given to permitting the Corporation to underwrite, on a national interest basis, risks involving public utilities or utilities approved by public authorities for the transport of people or other similar situations. In such circumstances, the Corporation would be required, because of its public accountability, to settle claims as expeditiously as possible and would be required to see that such cases as required litigation would be settled as expeditiously as possible. I commend that proposal to the Minister and to the Government. 
As I analyse this clause, it seems to me that if the Minister considers that a particular class of business insurance cannot be made available on a commercial basis in the national interest, before any activity of the Corporation is classified as national interest insurance, this will have to be preceded by 3 courses of action. One is that the matter should be considered by the board of the Corporation. Secondly, the matter should be subject to an actuarial and economic analysis. Thirdly, it should then be sent to the Minister and if the Minister or the Government approves that that particular class of insurance ought to be underwritten, it should then come back to this Parliament embodied in a regulation. It would then be subject to debate and the concurrence of the Parliament. I think that ought to be made clear. 
Insurance companies undoubtedly are concerned that there is no clear line of demarcation between what will be considered as normal operations and what we call 'national interest' insurance. This misgiving undoubtedly is well placed. In these circumstances what needs to be explained to the representatives of the industry is that the national interest insurance activities of the proposed Corporation will not come into effect until such time as departmental legislation and inquiry have been instituted. 
At no time as I understand it, has the Government envisaged that the private sector insurance companies would be automatically excluded from participation in the Corporation's national interest activities. As I understand it, the Minister would welcome any constructive or considered opinions in this area. Let me conclude by making the point that a fortnight ago the general insurance company representatives at least met the Minister. Representatives of the life offices flatly refused to do so. I understand that the conference with the Minister was most satisfactory. The other avenue I suggest that the insurance industry ought to examine relates to an issue which I raised in July last year of getting the Government to agree to the setting up of 2 consultative committees. Such committees are a valuable acquisition. I believe this is an area in which much of the contention in this clause can be resolved to everyone 's satisfaction. 
-I want to pass a couple of brief comments on the remarks of the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Macphee).  I think there is a little misapprehension about the provisions regarding solvency under the Insurance Act 1973 as distinct from those in the Life Insurance Act. The solvency provisions under section 24 of the Insurance Act are indeed ratios between premiums and assets and liabilities. But that does not apply under the Life Insurance Act. It is not solvency in that sense; it is rather that the Life Commissioner is provided with pretty heavy powers of surveillance. I think we get a little mixed up if we try to interpret money ratios in one Act as against the other. They just do not apply. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
1 ) Did his predecessor invite the Attorneys-General of all States by letter on 23 December 1974 to meet with him at a mutually convenient time to discuss matters of mutual concern arising from the Corporations and Securities Industry Bill. 
If so, which States (a) responded to the invitation to meet and discuss the Bill, (b) did not respond to the invitation and (c) having responded to the invitation and agreed to meet, subsequently refused. 
What effect has the States' responses had or what effect are they likely to have on the operation of the Bill if and when it becomes law. 
Have any of the States' Attorneys-General, since the refusal of the Senate to pass the Corporations and Securities Industry Bill, contacted him offering to meet to discuss the Bill. 
If so, to what does he attribute the change of mind of these States regarding discussions on the Bill. 
I address my question to the Minister for Minerals and Energy. Can the Minister advise the House what stage has been reached in uranium enrichment technology by the Australian Atomic Energy Commission? 
-The Prime Minister will be aware that I have raised this matter on several occasions in the House: I refer to the need for a more humane and constructive approach to eliminate the existing cruel, harsh and . needless suffering which has been inflicted upon the victims of bus tragedies, particularly those in the last 2 years at Cooma in New South Wales and Inglewood in Queensland. I ask the Prime Minister whether he is aware that the whole question of settlement is completely bogged down in legal machinations involving bus companies, insurance companies, and the State legal authorities. In the case of the Cooma disaster litigation is taking place in South Australia and at least 3 years will elapse before liability is assessed. In an effort to remove the anxiety and financial burden from these unfortunate people, will the Prime Minister take up their plight with the State premiers concerned in order to have the claims settled expeditiously? 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
What is the present state of proceedings to extradite Alexander and Thomas Barton from Paraguay. 
In what circumstances are the Bartons living in Paraguay, and can he say whether (a) they are living on money which may belong to the creditors of their own bankrupt companies and (b) any money, the property of the creditors of their bankrupt companies, is being used in their defence against extradition proceedings being brought by the Australian Government. 
Can he also say what is the scale of expenditure undertaken by the Bartons to prevent their extradition to Australia. 
Has the Australian Government received any support from the New South Wales Government in its efforts to extradite the Bartons from Paraguay, and is there any indication that that Government may not be anxious for the Bartons' return to this country in spite of their allegedly fraudulent acts. 
Will the Corporations and Securities Industry Bill remedy the defects m State legislation which enabled the Bartons to carry out their alleged frauds; if not, can he say whether the law of New South Wales is the same as it was when the Bartons committed these alleged frauds. 
My question, which I address to the Attorney-General, deals with the question of the extradition of the Bartons from Paraguay. In view of the rejection by the court in Paraguay for the extradition of the Bartons and the fact that the alleged strength of the Bartons stems from the money they have stashed away in Swiss banks - 
I rise to support the Bill. It is pleasing to note that on this very rare occasion the Opposition will join with us in supporting the legislation. As I understand it the Bui introduces legislation for the screening of foreign takeovers of Australian businesses and the prohibition of such takeovers as are determined by the Treasurer to be against the national interest. Since foreign takeover controls were first introduced in 1972 they have operated on the following basis: Firstly, the interim legislationthe Companies (Foreign Take-Overs) Act 1972-1974- extends to foreign takeovers of companies effected by means of acquisitions of voting shares; and secondly, the policy measures taken in December 1974 when the Government announced its comprehensive foreign takeover legislation proposals, extended to takeovers of incorporated or unincorporated business by means of acquisitions of assets, and mineral rights. 
As I understand it, the likely effect of the new proposals will be, firstly, takeovers of businesses by means of asset acquisitions and takeovers of mineral rights. As the existing legislation is confined to transactions, the acquisition of assets has been used on occasions to avoid the terms of the Act. However, this kind of thing appears to be infrequent, and the main reason for the observation is that companies are aware of the nature of the existing legislation and the Government's stated intention to close the loopholes. There is also the possibility of retrospection that may apply to any new legislation we may bring in. At present the Government has no control over the transfer of control of businesses from one foreign group to another although the transactions may mean that the effective control of an Australian business can change hands without there being any change in the legal ownership of the Australian business. This may occur if the Australian business is owned by an overseas company which is taken over by another foreign interest. 
It would not be feasible or desirable to attempt to examine all overseas transactions in the shares of a company incorporated outside Australia. The intention is to limit the examinations to transactions which on rare occasions could result in a change in control of major Australian businesses which would be against the national interest. Therefore the Bill provides that a transaction involving voting or non-voting shares which results in a change of control of a company incorporated outside Austrafia will be examinable where 5 1 per cent or more of the assets of that company are held within Australia or where its Australian assets exceed $3m. 
Let me refer to recent cases of foreigners involved in Australian businesses where the Government has no power under the existing Act to intervene. I was very interested in the case of Delhi International Oil which proposed to sell 50 per cent of its shares in the Cooper Basin reserve to the French Aquitaine group. The second case was the proposed sale of the St Martin's property group to interests from Kuwait. In another case the Martin Corporation sold its 40 per cent of the shares in a Western Australian finance companyGeneral Investment Company Ltd- to the New Zealand Broadlands group. This was a transaction between foreigners outside the scope of existing legislation. It was referred to the foreign investment committee which investigates cases where no action can be taken under the existing Act and which involve foreign investment and exchange control. 
The Government expects that it may be necessary to invoke the extension of the legislation only on very rare occasions, so its effect on foreign investment may not be significant. It is proposed that the criteria for determining national interest be widened to take into account all competition, productive capacity, development of new markets, conservation, urban development and the preservation of Aboriginal land rights. This will increase the chances of foreign takeovers in this category being found to be against the national interest. 
I want to make some observations on the remarks made by the right honourable member for Bruce  (Mr Snedden),  the honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Ian Robinson)  and the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly).  I would like to try to explode some of the repeated cliches and myths surrounding the 
Government's policy particularly in the field of minerals and energy which is crucial to the national interest. In my view there are subtle methods by which overseas corporations can control our vital industries other than by share transactions, manipulations or board nominee manipulations. Let me give some examples about which I am extremely concerned at the moment. I intend to draw them to the attention of the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor).  The first is the reorganisation of the Aberfoyle group of companies which is now under the control of Cominco, a big Canadian mining group. This will bring the new Que River or Macintosh deposits under the control of the Canadian company through Aberfoyle. I believe that this reorganisation is in progress. Details have not been announced. 
Let us have a look at what rules will govern the ball-game in this particular context. As I understand it, the leasing of the deposits by the Tasmanian Government will have no regard to ownership, unless the Tasmanian Government follows the legislation operating in South Australia to the effect that no new leases are to be granted other than to companies with a 50 per cent or more Australian ownership. I understand that that situation applies in New South Wales but I may be wrong. We can intervene as a government by refusing or limiting export sales of copper, lead or zinc from the new Macintosh field when it comes into operation. Obviously this would be too late and not effective in any way towards preserving the national interest. Alternatively the Tasmanian Government could refuse the lease unless the company controlling the lease were Australian controlled. It ought to be realised that this particular deposit in the Macintosh field in Tasmania is of world importance both in size and grade. Yet it is my belief that it is destined under the present legislative conditions to become overseas controlled. 
Let us look at another concept not provided for in this legislation. I refer to a very subtle method of control. The consortia controlling Robe River, Savage River or the Gove bauxite deposits illustrate how foreign companies with minority equity interests control the working of major Australian mining resources and reap continuing benefits regardless of the profitability or otherwise of the operation. This is accomplished by having management and sales agreements with the consortium partners. In effect, they can obviate this legislation. An example is the Cleveland-Cliffs Iron Co. With only 12 per cent equity it receives 1  V*  per cent of the selling price, other than in relation to sales to Japan. The royalty for technical know-how and the management fee are all profit to Cleveland-Cliffs. Whereas Robe River Ltd, the Australian company, which is the Bond corporation, with a $100m investment and a 35 per cent interest, receives no return at all as far as the non-profitable stage of the Robe development operation is concerned. Surely under normal circumstances a public company with a 35 per cent interest would control the whole operation? But without management and technological expertise the $100m investment remains in the hands and at the mercy of foreign companies. 
In effect Savage River Mines, Gove Joint Venture and Robe River are operations in Australia which have succumbed to the financial strength and professed expertise of foreign companies. They obtain semi-processed Australian minerals at bargain prices for industrial uses in their respective countries. In other words, they capitalise on the finished product. Agreed, consortiums, we would all agree, I think, are a sound way of developing large mineral deposits. But it is most important that such ventures have an Australian bias and Australian management, expertise and control. I was very interested in the remarks of the 3 previous speakers from the Opposition side about the need for foreign investment, technology, managerial expertise and capital to invest in the risk sector, particularly in mining. It is my belief that the reason for the need for foreign investment and technology is largely because of the lack of courage by individual investors in Australia and the lack of any foresight or courage by the financial institutions, whether they be merchant banks, banks, insurance companies or stock exchanges. 
Basically, it ought to be remembered that nearly all the major mining fields in Australia have been discovered by Australian technology or personnel and not by overseas technology or persons. I shall cite an example which worries me greatly. Pan-Continental disposed of 25 per cent of its shares at less than $ 1 and possibly as low as 50c to Consolidated Gold Fields Australia Ltd at a time when the control of the company could have been obtained for $750,000. Not one stockbroking firm, financial institution, merchant bank, insurance company or individual in this country was prepared to take an investment in Pan-Continental. Yet today that is regarded as one of the largest and richest uranium fields in the world. Its shares stand at $6 plus. That is an indictment of Federal and State governments and financial institutions in this country. 
There is another matter to which I want to make reference. The 3 honourable members who spoke for the Opposition talked about risk capital exploration which had been developed by overseas corporations in this country. Utah Development, Hamersley Holdings Ltd and Thiess Peabody Mitsui Coal Pty Ltd are perhaps 3 of the biggest mining ventures in the world. Their fields were discoverd by Australians and were recorded by the Bureau of Mines in respective States. In the case of Hamersley, it was recorded as early as 1880 in Western Australia. In the case of the Bowen Basin deposits, they were discovered by Leichhardt in 1827. A full report on the depth and volume of the Bowen Basin coking and steaming coal deposits was tabled in the Queensland Parliament in 1879. Let us not have this nonsense that we have to get foreign capital into this country to discover our national wealth which has been known for over a century. 
I have a second question which I ask honourable gentlemen opposite when they talk about the need for foreign capital. If anybody invests in Utah, Thiess Peabody Mitsui or Hamersley, does anybody in this House assume that the development capital which is poured into Australia is equity capital? Surely nobody on either side will put that as a logical proposition. Let it be remembered that 75 per cent of the capital to develop Hamersley in Western Australia was created from internal resources. The whole of the Hamersley managerial and technological expertise was Australian. We ought to ask the question: Why is it that an overseas corporation like Utah, Kaiser Aluminium and Chemical Corporation or Peabody can in fact raise the necessary risk capital on the international market? That is where they got their capital. It was not from shareholders. Yet we in this country do not have faith in our internal financial institutions or we do not galvanise our internal financial institutions to raise the same capital on the international market. I say quite sincerely that that is an indictment of the Federal and State government and of the institutions in this country. 
I agree with the honourable member for Bradfield. I think it is time that somewhere along the line we set out the guidelines to establish the necessary confidence and security in the financial market in this country to encourage investors, whether they be private or from the merchant banking fields, insurance corporations or government, and to galvanise the internal capital to preserve and maintain these resources which are the real wealth of this country. It is my belief that the legislation now before the House is a constructive method by which we can retain control of what in effect is our national interest. I support the legislation. 
My question, which is directed to the Prime Minister, deals with the plight of Australian citizens in strife-torn Portuguese Timor. The Prime Minister is aware that I have made representations in respect of this matter on behalf of a  Dr Grady  and a  Mr Berry,  the honourable member for Braddon has made representations on behalf of Randall Riseley and other members of this House have made representations also. In view of the widespread concern by Australians, can the Prime Minister inform the House about the position of Aus.tralian citizens at present in Portuguese Timor? What action has the Government taken to ensure that the welfare of these citizens is protected? 
-I support the Excise Tariff Bill, the Customs Tariff (Coal Export Duty) BUI and the Customs Bill (No. 2). I shall confine my remarks to the second Bill, that is, the Customs Tariff (Coal Export Duty) BUI. The honourable member for Fisher  (Mr Adermann)  spoke against the Bills then he said he would not oppose them and, undoubtedly, will support them. Like the rest of the hypocritical, carping Opposition, he will not remove these measures if his Party becomes the government. The people of this nation have a right to demand the maximum return from the exploration or exploitation of their vast non-renewable natural resources. It ought to be realised that at present the only controls we have used over mining are tax policies, that is, royalties or export licences. The measures before the House are a constructive attempt by which we can endeavour to maximise our people's just share of their national assets. People and governments- State and Federal- irrespective of their position, progressively are challenging the rights of large corporations in this country to control and manipulate resources on which the people's standard of living depends and to which our economy is both extremely sensitive and vulnerable. The return from these measures will enable the Government to co-ordinate, identify, quantify, and plan the most economic and efficient use of our vast coal resources. 
What is the current situation? If one takes the level of foreign control based on estimated production in the area of black coal alone in this country one sees a frightening situation. In New South Wales it is 24 per cent but in Queensland it is 88 per cent. For the interest of honourable members I point out that our black coal reserves in Australia which can be recovered amount to about 100 000 million tonnes. I ask: Just how important is the coal in this country? 
-It is 100 000 million tonnes. The honourable member for Lilley had better do a little more research. 
-Yes, that is recoverable. The honourable member for Lilley would not understand the difference. Coal is a complex form of fossilised sunlight. Until solar energy in some form or other can be commanded by the world, coal remains the principal source of solar energy available in a controlled and economically amenable form. Coal is one of the most precious resources available to Australia. Because of its versatility it is exceptionally important as a source of energy in a complex, technological world. It is of course true that until the November 1973 price rise imposed by the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries the world, for whatever reason, had people been living in a state of unreality so far as energy resources were concerned. Until then the world was not conscious of the malaise from which it was suffering and it had no intention of finding a solution. Clearly, the test of profitability of the day has caused us to condone and, in fact, to justify policies for which our children and our children's children may well condemn us. The 
Shockwave is still being felt throughout the world because of a scramble for alternative energy resources. It is now recognised that our black coal has a great and growing role to perform so far as energy is concerned. 
World reserves are vast. Three nations seem to have super-economic power. They are the United States, Russia and China. Russia produces about 500 million tonnes annually and has known reserves for about 1000 years. Japan has substantial reserves of some types but these are far from adequate to meet its needs. Honourable members on the other side of the House often forget that the Japanese are extremely selective in the importation of their coal because they want it to blend with their indigenous coal deposits. Western Europe, including the European Economic Community has large coalbearing lands. But these have been worked for hundreds of years. Because of no balanced conservation policy it is very doubtful whether their reserves will make more than a limited contribution. Japan and Western Europe will continue to be the large-scale importers from either Poland, Canada, the United States of America, Russia or Australia. 
However, not all these countries will be willing to make their resources an export factor. This situation is already emerging in the United States. Likewise, a similar question mark hangs over the Russian deposits. There is doubt whether they will consummate exports of large scale orders of Siberian coal through their Pacific ports. 
It is incontrovertible that all countries will find a pressure of events which will require them to look with great care at the use to which their resources of coal are put. That applies equally to Australia. This pressure is being manifested already through intensified research in the sphere of coal conversion techniques. Let us look at some examples of this. The Agreement of Cooperation was signed in June last year between the United States and the United Kingdom to exchange information involving the whole range of coal technology. The National Coal Board in the United Kingdom announced its ambitious coal conversion research program, the largest in its history. It is a 5-year program involving $A70m. West Germany embarked on a 5-year program of liquefaction and gasification research in respect of both brown and black coal. They are going to expend $A180m. The United States has the largest program of all. Over a period of 10 years it will expend $20 billion. 
I ask the Opposition: If we have the necessity to follow a similar pattern in this nation's interest, from where will the finance come? Will it come from profits or from the taxpayer? If the Opposition has any influence on the matter the finance will come from the taxpayer. We believe it ought to come from profits. Each working day the Australian coal mining industry has the task of moving more than a quarter of a million tonnes of coal from the coal face. Australia 9 largest and best deposits of black coal are concentrated in 2 great Permian areas- the Bowen Basin in Queensland and the main coal province in New South Wales. 
-We ought to be proud of what we have achieved in this country since 1960. 1 do not deny that. In 1960 we produced 23 million tons of black coal- 18 million tons from New South Wales, 3 million tons from Queensland and 2 million tons from the four other States. Of this we exported only 2 million tons during that period. In 1974 we produced 56 million tons, half of which was exported. The local market for coal in the year 2000 will be about 100 million tonnes per year. By 1980 this figure could reach 50 million tonnes with a good half of that being exported, particularly from New South Wales. 
The oil situation as it developed at the end of 1973 had a significant effect on world prices, despite what the honourable member for Fisher  (Mr Adermann)  said, and has had a sudden emergence in the field of coal, particularly coking coal. At that time Australia's capacity failed to meet demand. The demand for coking coal has increased. However, the largest demand has been, beyond any question, for steaming coal. The export pricing policies that were being followed by the coal mining industry were condoned, supported and endorsed by the previous Government. These policies were totally inadequate and hopelessly fragmented. It is because of the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  that we have formulated a central, co-ordinated control of export price levels. This control was imposed against the wishes of the Opposition. The export pricing policy was rationalised and Australian coal ceased to be exported at low prices compared with prices being obtained by comparable overseas coal producers. 
Let us look at the achievements of the Minister for Minerals and Energy and the Government since 1972. 1 shall quote figures on a US$ per ton free on board basis in respect of the 4 main leases in Queensland- Blackwater, Goonyella, Peak Downs and Moura-Kianga. The figures indicate the increase in the price of coal from 30 April 1972 to 1 June 1975. In respect of Blackwater the price at 30 April 1972 per ton was $12.62 and at 1 June 1975 $48.50 per ton; at Goonyella the price increased from $13.34 to $48.50; at Peak Downs from $12.77 to $48.50; and at MouraKianga from $13.1 to $50.50. Those figures represent a four-fold increase in prices since 1972. Surely this reflects itself in revenue and profit levels. 
I shan elaborate a little further on the Queensland position and on why the impost is justified. The latest estimates of the Queensland Department of Mines in respect of reserves gives the total of measured and indicated in situ reserves of coking coal in that State as 7929 million tons and non-coking coal as 5383 million tons. Assuming that 90 per cent of the open cut coal and 50 per cent of the underground coal are extracted, calculating a yield figure of 75 per cent after washing, one arrives at a reserve coking coal figure of 3766 million tons and a reserve non-coking coal figure of 37 1 3 million tons. 
Published estimates of the reserves at the four leases held by Central Queensland Coal Associates and the Utah Development Corporation are in excess of 6000 million tons. It is possible to determine from a number of reliable sources that at these 4 leases- Goonyella, Peak Downs, Saraji, Norwich Park and Daunia- there are about 3000 million tons of coking coal in situ. The Utah Development Corporation has coking coal reserves of at least 700 million tons at its Blackwater lease. This means that there is in excess of 3700 million tons of coking coal in Utah's 5 leases and about 2,500 million tons of steaming coal. Under the lease conditions for Blackwater UDC is restricted to exporting 100 million tons of coking coal, which is about 14 per cent of their reserves. From the northern leases COCA take 150 million tons and they take a further 150 million tons of the total, which is less than 30 per cent of their reserves. They are allowed 300 million tons, which amounts to 10 per cent of their reserves. 
Let us look at the cake, at who has and will continue to take the largest portion of it, and at just why the impost is justified. UDC obtained a net income profit after tax of $8,237m in 1970 and in 1974 it rose to $48,750m. For the first half of this year the figure is $42,233m. Assuming the production level continues at 1 million tons per month UDC's profit for this year will be well over$ 100m. 
I conclude by extrapolating the long term returns to these large corporations and showing why we have a right to capitalise and to maximise our people's share of the natural resources. Honourable members opposite need to do a little more homework. Under agreements with the Queensland Government, UDC still has 385.5 million tons to take out of their leases. On present after tax profits this will return just over $A3,000m to the Utah-Mitsubishi consortium. A new government in Queensland could modify the Utah coal leases and the CQCA agreements to allow these companies to remove the maximum amount of coal from their leases. There are at least 3700 million tons of coking coal in the 5 leases of Utah-COCA. On the assumption that it is all recoverable by open cut techniques, sale of the recoverable reserves by the 2 companies will yield $A28,000m at today's prices. This Government has an obligation on behalf of the people of this nation as a whole to maximise its return. Quite clearly Queensland governments over some 20 years, either conservative or Labor, have done virtually nothing to get a reasonable return from the resources that belong to the people of this country, including the people of Queensland. 
Is it? Then let us consider some of the figures which the honourable member's party in Queensland tabled on royalty payments. I said in the House on 29 October last year- and it is clearly indicative of the support that large corporations get in Queensland from conservative governments: 
In Queensland last year the value of minerals output increased by 77 per cent over the previous year to a total of $5 15m. Royalty payments to the State's Consolidated Revenue Fund for that year totalled $4m, and because of increased coal production and a substantial increase in the profitability of Mt Isa Mines Ltd the royalty, on the old basis, for 1974-75 was expected to be $9m. However, on the new royalty rates the return in 1974-75 will be $37m, an increase of $33m on the 1973-74 payments and an increase of $28m on what would have been received in 1974-75 at the old rates. 
That is an indictment of the Queensland Government. It was an indictment that stood for nearly 16 years before there was any variation of royalty rates. The people in Australia have a right to gain some advantage when profits reach an extortionate level as have those of the UDC and which will continue as long as the escalation in coal prices occurs internationally. We have a responsibility to the people to maximise the return to them as a whole and to use that money in a constructive fashion to ensure that Australia in the long term is safe and secure in its energy and mineral deposits. I commend the Bill to the House. 
I address my question to the Minister for Minerals and Energy. What proportion of profits from the export of Australian coal is derived by the Utah Development Company and its affiliates? What is the Australian equity in those companies? What steps has the Minister taken to ensure adequate Australian participation in them? 

 Mr CONNOR Of the total gross profit of $544m derived this year from the export to Japan of coking coal the percentage which will flow to the Utah Development Company and its affiliate is 56 per cent. They will take $309m out of $544m-  56k  percent to be precise. Only 10.8 per cent of that will pass to Australian shareholders; the rest will go abroad. The Utah 
Development Company can thank the good offices and support of the Australian Government for its present situation because the contracts it entered into with 7-year pricing terms with various Japanese steel mills did not provide for an annual review of prices. Thanks to our good graces and by grace and favour of the Japanese consumers, the Utah Development Company is receiving the same annual review of prices as the other Australian producers. 
For the future, this is the position: The Utah Development Company is in the cream. It has paid for its infrastructure and the question seriously arises as to whether it should continue merely to skim off the 17 per cent of Queensland coal which is available to open cut mining at the highest profit rates and leave behind for posterity and for Japan ultimately, the rest of the coal that will be won at greater cost. A fortnight ago  Mr Wilson  of Utah and some of his senior officers came to discuss with me their various pricing problems. The Australian Government was happy to assist them. I indicated to  Mr Wilson  that the time had arrived when there ought to be proper Australian equity participation. There the matter remains and I hope to get a response within a reasonable time. 
I address my question to the Treasurer. In view of the Senate's rejection of the Australian Government Insurance Corporation Bill and particularly the national interest provision which would extend insurance cover to people in those areas subject to the devastation of natural disasters, I ask the Minister: Can he indicate what action the Government now intends to take to set up a natural disaster insurance commission or scheme? The Minister will appreciate that such coverage is a matter of urgency: 
I rise to support the constitutional amendment. Firstly I want to make 2 or 3 observations about the speech of the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard).  He, like his colleagues on the Opposition side of the chamber, believes in a confederation, not a federation.  His  philosophy puts me in mind of what was said once about an Anglo-Saxon elected in South Africa: He talks Progressive, is a Liberal and prays to God that the Conservative policies will carry the day. 
It is, of course, one of the quirks of the Constitution that while it makes provision for the transfer of powers to the central government from the State governments, there is no reciprocity. In effect there is no provision for the transfer of powers from the central government to the States. Candidly, I think that the founding fathers overlooked the necessity to provide a two way flow for the transfer of powers. I go so far as to suggest that this lopsided power has given rise to the justifiable suspicion by the States that any exercise of power automatically reduces their sphere of authority. (  Quorum formed) 
There is nothing even like the compact clause in the United States Constitution which enables agreements between State governments in that federation to be given formal, legal supportlimited as this provision may be. The nearest we have come to recognising formally a need to give additional constitutional sanction to power sharing between governments has been through the Commonwealth-State Financial Agreement and the subsequent inclusion of section 105a in the Constitution. Aside from this, for 75 years we have operated in an essentially  ad hoc  fashion in attempting to create orderly arrangements between the governments of the federation. Sometimes arrangements have been made through formalised agreements, leading sometimes to the backing of legislation from the parliaments of the governments involved. However, there are many other intergovernmental arrangements which have not received formal backing like this, and even those approved by parliaments may not be enforceable. 
Bodies such as the Australian Agricultural Council have been founded and have maintained marketing authorities, at least at the top level, but only by the continued willingness of governments to remain in active participation. The very existence of these bodies demonstrates the incapacity of the present division of power under the Constitution to cope with the evolving needs and demands of our society. The  ad hoc  nature of many of these arrangements, the legal uncertainties arising from their lack of formal constitutional backing, the unnecessary and costly duplication of effort and the complications which may flow from this cry out for something to be done. 
Ideally, of course, there are, as this House well knows, a number of areas where it is clear that there is an overwhelming need for a reordering of the powers of the central government and the States. It is tragic and irresponsible to conceive today that corporations, for example, might still be regulated by 7 sets of laws. We have 4 tory governments in this so-called federation which choose to continue to compound the situation by their hotchpotch of interstate corporate affairs commissions. We have 7 defamation laws and 10 workers compensation Acts. This is a monstrous situation which honourable members opposite wish to continue to compound. Whatever might be done in reordering and restructuring the division of power between the national government and the States, in my opinion it would be wrong to leave open still the question of recognising in the Constitution the need for giving formal constitutional authority to the interchange of powers between the Federal government and the States. As we all know, in practice the Australian Constitution has proved to be extremely difficult to change. As Professor Geoffrey Sawer has said so cogently, beyond any doubt constitutionally Australia is a frozen continent. As a consequence, we have been obliged to get around the Constitution in many ways, and this has become the name of the game. 
As I have already suggested, the results of this can lead, and have led, to cumbersome machinery, uncertainties and duplication in the workings of government. If the experience of the past 75 years is any guide at all, the continuing change in our social, economic and political life can make a constitutional provision, previously thought to be inviolable, not only obsolete but also detrimental to the workings of good government. The Industrial Revolution in Britain finally forced upon that country, as it forced upon this country, many changes in the working of governmental institutions, including the courts and the law, in a period when the rates of change were shorter than we experience today. In Australia in the twentieth century we have already witnessed how many changes have made parts of our Constitution quite unfitted for dealing with many aspects of our life- in the fields of trade, commerce, corporations and industry. In 1901 the provisions of the Constitution on these and related matters were probably a reasonable reflection of the needs of the time. But today, obviously, the corporate and economic facts of life in Australia have far outstripped the Constitution. Companies, trade and commerce are no longer carried on in the style of the nineteenth century. This is a fact of life. Our founding fathers cannot be blamed for not foreseeing such changes but certainly we will be blamed if, on seeing them, we do nothing about them. 
There are many other ways, too, in which the rate of change has made the Constitution obsolete. The result has been that whatever the economic and social realities have been at a particular time, in terms of the allocation of constitutional powers, change can and may soon make them outmoded. Grey areas appear clouding the once clear distinctions which might have been made, for example, between intrastate and interstate trade and commerce. Let us take the recent example of the important moves made by the Government to establish regional growth centres. The Constitution makes no provision for developments like that. If the complex legislation for Albury-Wodonga is a good guide, with the required interaction between the central government and the States, in order to achieve a development like this we need better and more efficient machinery. What was satisfactory yesterday or even today as a means of regulating government power might, because of some completely unforeseen circumstance, be manifestly unsuitable tomorrow. But the matter goes further than that. What may be acceptable now may be downright damaging in 10 or even 15 years time. Flexibility and interdependence ought to be the basis from which we work- not fragmentation and divisiveness. A very great risk to our society, arising out of the inability of the Constitution to move with the times, is that the nature of change and the speed of change may be such that all governments in our system may lose control of evolving situations unless our constitutional mechanisms have the adaptability and flexibility to meet them. Once such control is lost it seems almost impossible for it ever to be restored completely. 
I want to make some further observations on the speech of the honourable member for Bennelong. One of the difficulties which Australia faces today in relation to its constitutional crisis is not that we need to review the Constitution but rather that we need the mechanism to change it. Beyond any doubt the Australian electorate, over the last decade at least and particularly in 1974, has been subjected to a barrage of deceit and deception about referendums from the political demagogues- the tories- whether they be from the States or from the Opposition here. Jointly they did their best to torpedo any constructive or effective attempt to carry the much needed constitutional amendments. However, section 128 of the Constitution- the referendum provision- has proved that this device has failed to meet the need to update our Constitution. As the honourable member for Bennelong said, certainly the Constitution has been amended but, with a few notable exceptions, largely as a result of judicial interpretation by the High Court rather than at the ballot box. It is an indictment of the current system that perhaps the most important express powers which over recent years have been conferred on the national government have flowed from judicial interpretations rather than from the ballot box. 
I refer to powers over restrictive trade practices, which the Opposition opposed; monopolies, which the Opposition opposed; the national Companies Act, which no doubt the Opposition will oppose; safety, efficiency and regularity in civil aviation; television and broadcasting; and the legitimation of children by subsequent marriage, which powers were valid. These powers and others have been vested in this Parliament and despite rejection at the ballot box or at referendum, or confirmation if you like, the High Court has placed its imprimatur on the recommendations of the constitutional committees as set out in the 1929 and 1959 reports and in respect of which the Opposition in government over 23 years failed to act upon. All the powers have been given to the Federal Parliament by the High Court in terms of judicial interpretation. We as a nation ought to study and contrast, if you like, the people's track record, that is, the ballot box, and that of the High Court in the field of meaningful, constructive, progressive and much needed constitutional change. If one looks at that and assesses it constructively one will find that it is a deplorable record. 
Let me wrap this up by indicating that I firmly believe that section 128 must be the most serious issue facing this country and is without question the major stumbling block in constitutional change. Clearly, as I said before, the problem really is not how to review the Constitution but to change it. The nation has 4 options. It can choose to change section 128. It can reject a proposal to change it. It can do nothing, or it can leave any meaningful changes to be made by the High Court. What is needed is for the intergovernmental arrangements to be given suitable recognition in the Constitution to enable interchanges of constitutional authority to be achieved without the trauma of referenda or backdoor dealings between the Federal Government and the State governments. Given this power the Federal and State governments would be in a position to promote their own best interests without reducing the totality of their powers. The States would, by this amendment, be placed on an equal footing with the Federal Government in relation to the transfer of powers. Furthermore, such a change more clearly opens up possibilities for power sharing, backed by formal constitutional means, hopefully enabling us at least to minimise the duplication of effort which is now sometimes required. Of equal significance, it would serve to minimise the risks of legal complications and the so often empty but nevertheless potent catch cries on Commonwealth-State relations which in the past have been so destructive to attempts to obtain reasonable arrangements to meet changing situations. 
The proposed amendment would also be a more practical and certainly less explosive way than many involving necessary and important changes in the use of government power to meet the need for changes as they develop from time to time. Our present Constitution is short on the machinery necessary to keep the working of government at the formal level in touch with the evolving needs of our society. It is heavily weighted on the other hand with sections which lack the flexibility to achieve what is in the best interests of the country as a whole. What an amendment like this proposes is to present to the Australian people a realistic and hopefully acceptable means of ensuring that the politics of confrontation can be minimised in working to meet the contemporary and future needs of government in this country. 
There is of course no sanction requiring either the Australian Parliament or the State parliaments under section 51 (xxxvii) to act to share their powers effectively, nor can or should there be anything like it. But by making reciprocal what is now essentially one-sided as far as the States are often concerned, this should go some way at least in developing more meaningful and effective efforts by the governments of this country to deal with our most pressing problems. To think otherwise would be to ignore the history of the past 75 years and would leave us in a situation which no one in this House who knows anything about constitutional law can deal with with any degree of equanimity. 
I conclude by reiterating what I claimed earlier, that the real problem is not to review the Constitution, but to change it. Difficult as this is, this Bill at least which proposes to amend the Constitution is one constructive avenue by which we can make the Constitution work with some semblance of efficiency and perhaps some semblance of success. I commend the Bill to the House. 
I whole heartedly support the Legal Aid Bill. The real essence of the Bill and perhaps the real issue of the Bill, if one wants to put the issue rather brutally and bluntly, can be well summed up in perhaps one expression: Justice to the rich; poor to the hulks. Perhaps that was the catch-cry 150 years ago. But when one looks at the people who are actually denied access or equality before the law one wonders whether the situation is any different today. May I suggest that the essential purpose of the Bill is in fact to enable each individual to achieve and be assured of equal treatment before the law. May I take up the point raised, speciously, I believe, by my learned friend, the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  a man for whom I have tremendous respect. As I understand it, this is what he said: 'Why is it that legal aid offices are situated in Labor electorates rather than Liberal electorates?' In other words he was asking why, in my State, they are situated in areas like Brompton rather than Burnside or Toorak. He asked: 'Is it political, is it geographical or is it monetary?' May I suggest to my learned friend that it is the latter. It is the poor, the disenfranchised, the indigent, the migrant, the disadvantaged who above all, because of their financial situation and distress, are denied access to any weight in the scales of justice. 
Let us look at some statistics, and some pretty telling ones. As the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  said, since the Legal Aid Office has been in operation over 100 000 people have sought protection with legal aid that normally they would not have got. Surely no one disagrees with the crucial need to cover the existing legal gaps by legal aid, particularly the need for the provision of representation in criminal matters in courts of summary jurisdiction. Throughout this country almost 1 million persons are convicted each year. One has to grasp these figures, because they are clearly in themselves an indictment of the existing legal structure. 
The need for representation in criminal proceedings heard by magistrates cannot be overstressed. Take some figures from the New South Wales legal arena, on the alarming extent to which accused persons are not represented by lawyers in courts of summary jurisdiction. The Bureau of Crimes Statistics and Research examined 29 000 cases in 1972. It excluded those with a previous criminal record, leaving a sample of 10 500 first offenders. Legal representation was provided in 3300 or 31 per cent of the cases. This is a deplorable record. It is an indictment of our so-called affluent society. Obviously there is a clear association, or, if you like, a correlation, between legal representation and the securing of a less severe penalty. It was found that those who were legally represented had six times the likelihood of obtaining an outright acquittal than those represented. Conversely, it was found that those who were legally unrepresented had a greater likelihood of being fined and had three times as much chance of being sentenced to prison. 
These figures surely highlight the total inadequacies of the current system. Surely the survey points up the critical need for each person arraigned before the courts to have access to legal assistance if equality before the law means anything at all. I guess one could say the same about the level of inadequacies that applies in each state. I suppose one could extrapolate from that, but I think that would be rather unfair at this stage. 
I turn to the Government's suspicion of the Opposition's motives in this matter. Why is it that we on the Government side of the house are suspicious of the Opposition's ploy? The Opposition wants to palm the Bill off to another committee, to strangle it with red tape provided by selfish elements in the private law practice. It wants to bury it, kill it, under a deluge of paper. It wants to drown it with verbiage and verbosity until it is verboten and forgotten. How often have we heard that in this House? Let us look at the Opposition's statistical record in the field of constructive, progressive and much needed social legislative reform. Since the Australian Labor Party assumed office in 1 972, time after time the Opposition has deliberately resorted to two destructive weapons, frustration and obstructionism- vacillation or procrastination if you like. Let us look at the record since 1972. In the 28th Parliament the second reading was negatived on 16 bills. One bill was laid aside after the Senate insisted on amendments. In the 29th Parliament second readings negatived in the Senate numbered 50, and 3 bills were laid aside after the Senate insisted on amendments. That makes a total of 70 bills. That is deplorable, reprehensible, regrettable and retrogressive. It is an indictment of the Opposition. Is it any wonder that we on the Government side of the House have no faith whatsoever that any committee which the Opposition might propose would carry out a constructive analysis? The Bill would be buried; it would be killed. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has stated publicly in this House that it is his intention to kill the Legal Aid Bill. 
The Australian Legal Aid Office became Government policy in response to a clear need to give real meaning to a hallowed conceptequality before the law. For too long there has been too much truth in the old saying 'one law for the rich and one for the poor', not because of bench discriminations, not because the system is corrupt, but simply because adequate representation is expensive and so the wealthier one is the more chance one has of getting the best legal representation in the courts. The Legal Aid Office goes a long way to ensuring that the humblest, the poorest, the least socially equipped member of the community can have adequate representation. I was proud to open the Legal Aid Office in Adelaide on behalf of the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Enderby).  It is about time that some of the so-called solicitors in the Opposition spent a day in the Legal Aid Office in Adelaide and saw the thousands upon thousands of people who come into this office disenfranchised, seeking legal support and protection before the courts of law. 
The Opposition proposes that the Bill should be referred to yet another inquiry, this time by a Parliamentary committee. But legal aid has already been subjected to a series of inquiries. The sham of the Opposition's claim can be revealed by the history of this initiative. A full policy statement by the former Attorney-General Murphy was subjected to extensive scrutiny by the legal profession and the users of legal aid. The Australian Legal Aid Review Committee has produced 2 reports, the more recent in February this year. Each of the constituent bodies of the Law Council of Australia has carefully examined the Bill. So too have 3 bar associations. The Poverty Commission has produced a detailed report, and a survey by the Australian National Opinion Polls has revealed the urgent need for a national legal aid office. 
Yet the Opposition has the temerity to decide that there should be yet another inquiry while the needs of thousands of Australians wait. How many more bar councils does it want to make submissions? 

-Be kind. The Opposition tactic is all the more transparent when one realises that all the scrutiny of the legal aid initiative has resulted in only minor matters of detail- questions of degree and of control. None of the inquiries has questioned the fundamental need for legal aid for those unable to avail themselves of existing facilities. There is no call from any responsible body, except from an irresponsible Opposition, for one more inquiry. What the Opposition wants to ensure is that a need which should be satisfied here and now will await its pleasure, not that of the Parliament. 
No doubt the legal aid scheme is not perfect, but changes must come not in response to the whims of an Opposition motivated by obstructionism but in response to the experience of how the scheme works, and in response to the new needs which will come to light as Australians come to realise that equality before the law must become a reality. We reject the need for another inquiry. We invite the Opposition to tell us what the Leader of the Opposition meant when he said he would abolish the Australian Legal Aid Office. That statement is the key to the Opposition's sham intention to divert the Bill into the endless morass of a parliamentary committee. 
Beyond all the cant about the independence of the legal profession, beyond all the nit-picking of the carping critics, stands the central fact that for 23 years the Tories opposite turned a blind eye to the legal needs of the disadvantaged. Their gestures in this direction were mere tokens. The old dog has learned no new tricks and is determined to protect the less reputable reactionaries in the legal fraternity who want to go on practising their old tricks. 
I want to turn my attention to one group which will derive particular benefit from the Legal Aid Office. We have only just become aware of the needs of the migrant communities. Under the previous Government they virtually lived in darkness. We are now slowly learning what their legitimate needs are. One area of real need is the legal area. I ask honourable members opposite to picture themselves in a strange country, trying to establish a family in an environment characterised by indifference, trying to take account of a new set of laws governing their relations with the rest of the community. And the vast majority of migrants are poor and cannot afford the cost of adequate representation. I believe that the Australian Legal Aid Office, the Racial Discrimination Act and the many other initiatives of this Government will help to right the imbalance, help to ensure that the migrant communities can play an active role in Australian society with a minimum of social cost. For the first time a migrant with a legal problem can get advice with a minimum of difficulty and legal representation with a minimum of cost. I wholeheartedly support the Bill. 
My question to the AttorneyGeneral deals with insurance law. In a comment on a recent English case on insurance law the Modern Law Review stated: 
If the law relating to Consumer Credit can be rationalised, it is difficult to see why the law of insurance should continue to rest mainly on a jumble of unjust precedents. 
The Minister will further appreciate that there is widespread recognition in legal circles that standard form contracts of insurance and other features of the law in this area are badly in need of overhaul. He will further note that there is a hotch-potch of legislation in Australia and uniformity and updating are badly needed. Therefore, with this in mind, will the Attorney-General be prepared to give a reference to the Law Reform Commission, either in the form of a broad reference to report on desirable changes to the law of insurance, or, alternatively, to report on the reform of the law on the contract of insurance? 
asked the Minister for Manufacturing Industry, upon notice: 
Has agreement been reached, following negotiations involving Australian and Japanese interests, in the setting up of a joint plant to make 4-cylinder cars in Australia. 
Will the new operation be wholly or partly based in South Australia. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
In the light of the recent failure of the Northumberland Insurance Company, can he say whether (a) legislation exists in the State of South Australia which permits the establishment of a nominal defendants' fund to pay compulsory third party motor vehicle insurance claims against an insurance company which has gone into liquidation, (b) similar legislation has been passed at various times in other States, except that it has dealt with specific companies, (c) legislation in South Australia covers all companies which are placed into liquidation and (d) there is no similar legislation in South Australia or elsewhere providing for the establishment of a nominal defendants' fund to pay workers' compensation claims against failed insurance companies. 
In view of the recent collapse of this company and the resultant hardship inflicted on people in Australia, will he take up immediately with the States Attorneys-General the necessity for legislation providing for the establishment of nominal defendants' funds to pay claims against failed insurance companies in relation to (a) third party motor vehicle insurance and (b) workers' compensation insurance. 
Has his attention been drawn to a statement in the  Australian  of 12 August 1975 by its Financial Editor that the New South Wales Government has adopted a strange attitude in the case of workers' compensation claims against the failed insurance company Northumberland Insurance Co Ltd. 
If so, can he say whether the strange attitude of the New South Wales Government accords with the proper principles of State Government responsibility when its citizens are defrauded. 
Is there any action he can take to enable citizens, in future, to enforce claims against defaulting insurers without recourse to their employers. 
Will he make representations to both the New South Wales and South Australian Governments in an endeavour to obtain justice for the individuals who are awaiting their compensation payments, in particular,  Mrs Ormsby,  a widow with six children, whose husband died in an accident in 1971, and who has been waiting since that date for the sum of $ 10,000 owing to her by this company. 
asked the Minister for Science and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that while there have been beneficial developments in recent years in consumer protection, problems concerning choice of laws and the interstate recognition and enforcement of contracts have increased. 
If so, will he give the matter consideration and request the Attorney-General to make the following reference to the Law Reform Commission as a matter of urgency: That the Commission report on desirable rules to relate to choice of laws and jurisdictions, and to the enforcement of contracts and contract judgments, in the area of consumer contracts. 

 -Mr Speaker, I give notice that on General Business day No. 2 1 shall move: 
That in the opinion of this House the Government should implement forthwith a natural disaster insurance scheme. 
Aboriginal Tribal Lands at Aurukun 
I direct my question to the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister for National Resources and Minister for Overseas Trade. Did he issue a Press statement last Sunday on his return from Japan in which he said that Japanese spokesmen had undertaken not to reduce the quantity of coal and iron ore which they are to import from Australia in 1975-76? Is the factual situation that Japan in fact is importing coal and iron ore at a rate which is approximately 27 per cent down on the 1974-75 level, as the senior managing director of Nippon Steel is quoted as saying in yesterday's  Australian Financial Review?  Is the  Deputy  Prime Minister's announcement that he intends to withdraw from negotiations about the price of Australia's mineral exports an acknowledgment of his failure to secure Australia's interests in his recent negotiations concerning the quantity of iron ore and coal exports to Japan in 1975-76? 

 -Mr Speaker, likewise I claim to have been misrepresented by the honourable member for Bendigo and by the Leader of the House. I was in attendance. I always attend the House. I was here until 11 o'clock that evening. I think questions should be to the point and they should be honest. 
I address my question to the Minister for National Resources. As the Minister is aware from reliable reports that it will cost about $200m to develop the Norwich Park coal reserves and about $6 50m to develop the ThiessPeabodyMitsui consortium's Nebo coal project, can he inform the House how his Government's policy of at least 50 per cent Australian participation is to be achieved? Will he further advise the House how the 8 per cent equity needed to raise the Australian participation in the Hail Creek coal project to the 50 per cent level fixed by his Government is to be achieved? 

 -Mr Speaker, I extend to you and the  Chairman  of Committees, the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock)  my congratulations on your election. I assure you both of my fullest co-operation. One notes in the opening remarks of the Governor-General's Address the reference to the recent suffering and hardship that was inflicted on many people in this country because of the devastation caused by natural disasters. Might I say that what the people need is not sympathy but a natural disaster insurance scheme. It is my intention to press this Government, as I pressed my own Government, for an early and a speedy implementation of such a scheme. 
Honourable members have advanced a variety of reasons in this debate for the murky waters of the Establishment which inundated Yarralumla and which led to the coup d'etat on 1 1 November. But I say to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  that there has never been a greater swindle sheet perpetrated on this country than was perpetrated by the Liberal and National Country Parties during the last election. We on this side of the House ought to face the simple fact that a progressive and a reforming government is a tolerable political entity if it is confined to State Treasury benches. But it becomes a disaster to the Establishment when it is installed on the Federal Treasury benches and attempts to control or direct, or redirect, those financial forces which are the real manipulators of our real wealth. As I understand it, national legislation covers the whole of the national canvas; State legislation covers merely a fragment of it. In effect, at a national level there are no holes in the net. 
I believe that we as a government were tolerable. We were acceptable; indeed we were digestible as long as we were prepared to institute reforms- reforms which honourable members opposite and their puppets failed to do anything about after a quarter of a century of government. Now what were the reforms? We were acceptable as long as we instituted reforms in education, Medibank, pensions, legal aid, divorce law and a host of other areas. These reforms were overwhelmingly endorsed by the people, and in my humble view they constituted the petty cash sector of the national economy. But the moment that we as a government attempted to control, to direct, those corporations and forces which move and in fact machinate large volumes of money across this nation, the moment we set in train legislation to control and direct the decisive sectors of the economy, such as fringe banking areas, a different attitude emerges. We attempted to inject for the first time, real competition in all levels of the insurance industry at and on a national level. We attempted for the first time since Federation to institute legislation to prevent monopolistic, collusive and restrictive trade practices and, above all, we wanted to initiate a national companies Act. 
-Yes, we did. Then we attempted to inject for the first time- it was long overdue- some semblance of credibility into the stock exchanges and the securities industry of this nation. The moment we attempted, on behalf of the people of this country, to legislate to control their right to exploit and obtain a guaranteed maximum return from the people's assetour valuable and non-renewable resources, to put it simply- and the moment we attempted to calculate, to control and to redistribute the contents of the national cash register, which necessitated obviously getting control of the combination to the bank vault, the establishment decided we were no longer tolerable or acceptable, we were indigestible and we had to be got rid of. The Opposition of the time peddled the catch cry of 'We had to do it'. The constitutional crisis led to its achievement of government. 
One of the real criticisms I have of my Government is that we never sorted out our priorities. I would have reversed them. I think any government that fails to establish its economic base in its first years of office is doomed to disaster in the end. We failed to do that. But I firmly believe that one of the basic reasons for our dismissal was that large corporation and large financial institutions, whether national or international, sought our oblivion to pave the way for the plundering of our vast natural resources- the people's wealth. This nation will learn in a very short period that there is a correlation between energy and the standard of living and that the diminution of one is the diminution of the other. 
I write my own speeches. Let us look at the scenario. This is what is up for grabs and this is what was at stake on 13 December: Whether we like it or not the energy market will remain a sellers' market for the next 10 years. Hydrocarbons, whether they be oil or gas, will increase in importance both economically and politically. The demand for liquefied natural gas, with which this country seems to be extremely well endowed, will increase at least 10 times in the next 10 years'.* The demand from Japan for this resource alone-will increase by approximately 800 per cent:- The regrettable fact is that neither natural gas' nor oil is conveniently located in the Western world. The Western world consumes 70 per cent of all natural gas but holds only 32 per cent of the known reserves. The bulk is in Russia, Iran, and the United States and the remainder is in Algeria. 
Let us consider what the demand will be by 1985. The demand for the primary energy of gas will reach 3?. per cent in the United States, 3 1 per cent in Western. Europe and 9 per cent in Japan. Yet the supply factor will fall short of demand in 1985 by almost 17 per cent in the United States, 20 per cent in Western Europe and 38 per cent in Japan. By 1.980' Japan will require about 5 billion cubic feet a' day. It will be able to import only about 3 billion cubic feet. If this Government grants to the Consortium on the North West Shelf a licence, to export liquefied natural gas we will be involved: in contracts for shipping overseas approximately 700 million cubic feet a day, for a period of - about 20 years. If we put on them a price of only $1 or $2.75 per thousand cubic feet the profit rake-off is in the area of billions of dollars, not millions of dollars. The present value of coking, coal in Australia is worth in excess of $300,000m. The exploitation of uranium, that crucial  energy  resource, is one issue which starkly reveals the total bankruptcy of this Government to grasp its national responsibilities. Its policy, in simple but blunt terms, is to tear up the rule book and let private enterprise re-write the rules. The deplorable result will be that the board of selectors will be predominantly overseas. 
 Just how valuable are these uranium resources? I want to quote from  Sir Philip  Baxter. He was appointed by a government formed by the parties opposite. I think his assessment of the figures is extremely conservative.  His  estimate of current reserves was 300 000 tons. Based on the likely price over the next decade he estimated that our reserves were worth $ 1 8,000m. The cost of extraction would be around $6,000m. The rake-off would be $ 12,000m. If we follow the process to the stage of enrichment the value would be about $50,000m. I think Baxter put it far more cogently than I could. 
I think so. This is what he said: 
In many countries uranium may be only owned by government 
All countries except this one. He continued: 
In 19S3  Mr Menzies,  in passing the Atomic Energy Act, took possession for the Crown of uranium in Australia. The deposits, whose descriptions sent ripples through the Stock Exchanges, do not belong to mining companies but to the people of Australia. 
What assessment can one place on this Government's policies on this crucial issue of resource distribution and scarcity? It is not unlike its policy on inflation and unemployment. If any sacrifices are to be made in either of those areas it will not be the rich who will make them. I regret to say that over the next three years so far as the resource sector is concerned it will be a case of the rich getting richer and the poor getting poorer. 
In my humble view that is what was at stake on 13 December. That is what was up for grabs on 13 December. While the people of this country had their eyes riveted on petty cash the large corporations, whether national or international, had a clear understanding of what was involved. Regrettably, when a Government abdicates its responsibility in the resource area and fails to face up to its responsibilities, it is not only a natural disaster but a national disaster. 
Over the last few months the newspapers of this country have taken the opportunity to criticise any Labor member who has questioned the events which led up to the last election. I do not intend to canvass the activities of the GovernorGeneral but I want to say in all sincerity that somebody somewhere along the line, whether on this side of the House or on the Government side, will have to face up to their constitutional responsibilities. I would never concede to an upper House the right to reject a money Bill. I think that sooner or later it will have to be realised that this nation can no longer face a repetition of the events of 1 1 November. I believe that section 57 of the Constitution ought to be amended and I think the people opposite ought to initiate that process. 
I quite agree. I think that so far as supply is concerned section 57 ought to be restricted to a limitation of 28 days. I want to make some remarks about the role of the Press leading up to 13 December. If ever there was a time when the truth and some semblance of honesty were stifled by the Press it certainly was in the period preceding polling day. I think that a definition of the power and the influence of the Press was very cogently put by Lord Beaverbrook back in the 1930s. At a Press club he was asked for his assessment of the power and influence of the Press. He said: 'It is quite simple of definition. Give me a sack of potatoes, the power of the Press and I will make it a Prime Minister in a month'. What I find rather astonishing is that we as a government were charged with going - 
My question, which relates to natural disaster insurance, is addressed to the Treasurer. 
The only national disaster is the Government. As the Treasurer is aware, his predecessor was to have announced endorsement in principle for such a scheme on 1 1 November last after having considered 3 reports, two from the insurance industry and one from the Treasury. Since the Minister has had more than ample time to study the reports is he now prepared to endorse in principle the need for such a scheme? Further, can he advise the House what were the terms of reference for the working party which he set up to examine the proposal? Finally, when does he expect its findings and will its report be tabled in the House? 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
What types of United States aircraft have landed at Cocos Islands in the last 5 years. 
How many visits of each type were made in each of the last 5 years. 
I address my question to the Minister for Consumer Affairs. In view of the fact that the Commonwealth has intervened in a current case before the South Australian Supreme Court involving an inquiry by the South Australian Credit Tribunal into the conduct of General Motors Acceptance Corporation Aust., I ask: Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the recent offer to the public of unsecured notes by the Corporation and to reports in the  Financial Review  of the possibility of the Corporation being liable to repay many millions of dollars to its South Australian customers because of its breaches of South Australian credit law? I further ask: Firstly, will he warn possible lenders, or intending lenders, to the Corporation of its heavy liabilities? Secondly, will he provide advice to customers of the Corporation about enforcing their legal rights to repayment of credit charges? Thirdly, will he warn these customers against doing anything at the Corporation's request which might prejudice their claims against the Corporation? Finally, will he take up these issues with his counterpart in the South Australian Government? 
I do not intend tonight to traverse the excellent speeches made by the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  and the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes),  but I would like to pass some remarks in. relation to the speech made by the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Macphee).  Frankly, I share the same concern that he has with regard to the reversion control factor as it will affect the component sector of the industry. It is my belief that that aspect of the Minister's report ought to be reviewed urgently, for the very basic reason that without governmental control it will undoubtedly lead to an open  misere  for the large multi-national corporations in Australia which have a total grip on the market. 
The other point I would like to make relates to the reference by the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  to the motor vehicle industry being in the grip of a straitjacket. That straitjacket was designed, fitted and tailormade by his Government back in 1 964, and if it was illfitting, either because of clumsy measurements or cut, the responsibility clearly lies with his Government's failure to measure accurately the needs of the industry back in 1964. The Labor Government inherited that legacy in 1972. When the previous Labor Government announced its proposals for the motor industry it produced a carefully considered plan which was in the best interests of the industry, the people who work in it and the consuming public. I find it rather ironic that many honourable members on the other side of the House who brought the people who are now working in the industry to Australia on assisted passages could well be responsible for their retrenchment. 
The 85 per cent local content requirement, together with the manufacture of the 4-cylinder engine by the Chrysler-Nissan-Toyota Australian Industry Development Corporation consortium at Lonsdale, formed a composite program to realise an efficient motor vehicle industry while minimising disruptions to employment opportunities during the rationalisation procedure. This Government, after considering plans for the motor vehicle industry for  Vh  months, has come to the conclusion that the 85 per cent local content is the best plan. It is now up to the Government to ensure that the proposed 4-cylinder plant at Lonsdale is proceeded with. Only then can the Government produce the best plan for all concerned in the industry. In the statement to the House the Minister said: 
The Government would like to see a rational development of 4-cylinder engine production in Australia rather than fragmented production in several locations. 
Elsewhere in his statement the Minister said: 
The Government has identified a number of elements of fundamental importance to a coherent and comprehensive policy. 
Two of those elements were the importance of the passenger motor vehicle industry to South Australia and the need to keep costs of production as low as possible by avoiding fragmentation of production and taking advantage wherever possible of economies of scale. Taken together, those statements lead to the conclusion that the Government must endorse the 4- cylinder plant at Lonsdale and that that plant must be the only one allowed in Australia. I trust that the reason for delaying the decision on the 4-cylinder engine production is only for the Minister to finalise discussions on the Lonsdale plant and to dissuade General Motors-Holdens from proceeding with its own plans. If production of the 4-cylinder engine is not rationalised to one plant, the same problems that brought the car industry into its present predicament quite obviously will continue. In revealing the problems of Australian car manufacturers, the report of the Industries Assistance Commission stated: 
The Australian market supports about 4 times as many stamping and engine manufacturing plants ... as would be compatible with an efficient industry structure. 
In urging the Government to proceed with plans for 4-cyhnder manufacture at Lonsdale it should be stressed that the case for the venture is not just a parochial one. The Lonsdale plant stands on its own feet as a viable, practical and economic venture. 
Let us look at the advantages of the 4-cylinder engine plant being located at Lonsdale. Firstly, it has been suggested that the proposed engine plant at Lonsdale will be capable of producing the cheapest 4-cylinder engines anywhere in Australia. Secondly, as body panel production is the least economic aspect of vehicle manufacture in Australia, local manufacturers may choose to press body panels overseas under the 85 per cent plan. Any loss of employment in South Australia will be offset by the employment opportunities in the new engine plant. Consequently, minimal disruption to the industry will occur. Thirdly, the proposed plant will make use of the existing facilities at Lonsdale. It will fully utilise the existing foundry and machine shop- a state of affairs which has not existed up until now. Fourthly, the existing plant at Lonsdale is a very modern and efficient workshop with transport facilities provided. Fifthly, our major trading partner, Japan, will be provided with an outlet for its vehicles on the same basis as existing manufacturers. 
Sixthly, with only one 4-cylinder plant the output will approach the economies of scale of overseas producers. This will mean a greater chance of exporting vehicles as well as reducing the cost to Australian consumers. Seventhly, the increasing popularity of 4-cylinder vehicles will be catered for to the benefit of consumers and the industry alike. Eighthly, South Australia is comparatively deficient in natural resources and is not well located on major trading and transport routes. Consequently, South Australia is heavily dependent on manufacturing industry to provide employment. The Lonsdale plant is vital for South Australia's future. Ninthly, there is the prospect that struggling South Australian component manufacturers will receive new orders if Nissan and Toyota enter the venture at Lonsdale. Tenthly, if the major manufacturers can combine to produce a common engine there is a good chance that commonality for other com- ponents can be achieved. This will further enhance the economics of the industry. 
I feel obliged, obviously, to impress on honourable members just how important the motor vehicle industry is to my State of South Australia. Chrysler's plant is in my electorate, but the proposed 4-cylinder plant will be at Lonsdale. Not only is it crucial to the strength and economic viability of the motor vehicle industry in South Australia, but the continued economic growth of South Australia is crucial to the nation. 
-The question of foreign investment in the development of Australia's natural resources is more basic to the future prosperity of the people of Australia than almost any other issue. Although this question is dealt with almost as a side issue in the national Parliament, big business is certainly under no illusions as to its real importance. Nothing less than a total sell-out will satisfy some multinational corporations and some sections of the Australian business community which see an opportunity for private profit in a sell-out of the national interest. There are 2 key issues to be constructively assessed. Firstly, recognising that multi-national corporations cannot be relied upon to develop Australia's natural resources in the national interest, how is Australian ownership and control of new development projects to be achieved? Secondly, recognising the enormous potential future strategic and economic importance of access to natural resources, what is the role of the national Government in the field of natural resources management, particularly in relation to two basic questions- a resources availability and scarcity? 
The statement by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  lacks credibility on the 50 per cent rule on 4 grounds. Firstly, the statement concealed rather than revealed one of the key conditions of the policy. The 50 per cent rule is apparently only intended to reassure the Australian public and is to apply in respect of smaller development projects. As far as larger projects are concerned, the multi-national corporations are merely required to make a gesture towards local equity before the Government flexibility allows projects to proceed with majority ownership and control. The present Government's commitment lasted less than a week, when it was negated by a statement made in Adelaide by the Minister for National Resources  (Mr Anthony).  He said: 
Whilst the Government stands by its policy that a SO per cent equity participation must be offered to Australian companies, the Government will be flexible where that offer cannot be taken up to explore and develop new projects. 
All that is required of the multinational corporations is that they convince the proposed Foreign Investment Review Board that they have failed to get the required level of Australian equity and then the project will be permitted to go ahead, provided it complies with the other criteria. This flexibility would seem less like practical abandonment of the 50 per cent rule if the second gap in the Treasurer's statement was less conspicuous. 
Secondly, the credibility of the rule suffers from the failure of the statement to outline any procedure for overcoming the notorious failure of Australia's present capital market and financial institutions to mobilise sufficient capital for majority Australian participation in major development projects. That is the fatal flaw. The submission by the Australian Industry Development Corporation to the Senate Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control stated:  ... the general observation that, at least in the Australian context, the capacity to have more local participation in ownership and control of industries and resources is not so much a function of the availability of funds, as of the presence of vehicles which can and will deploy funds to this end. 
Australia is about the twelfth most affluent country in the world, and it has one of the highest rates of saving amongst the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development countries. Recently there has been an increase in savings by households in Australia and elsewhere. In effect, household savings provided less than one-third of total savings in 1971-72 but more than half in 1974-75. Total savings over that period increased from $9,000m to almost $ 15,000m.  Major development  projects like the north-west shelf will require investment of the order of $ 1,000m to $2,000m, even though it will not be required all in one year. That investment is required from a society where the total amount of annual savings is between $ 14,000m and $ 15,000m and clearly points to the need for foreign capital to assist in the development of Australia's natural resources. 
However, the policy issue is not whether we need foreign capital. Rather the question is on what terms should foreign investors be allowed to participate in the development of our natural resources. The concentration of foreign capital investment in foreign-owned and controlled enterprises in key sectors of industry has led to a grossly disproportionate degree of foreign ownership. Between 1964 and 1970 82.5 per cent of funds invested in the development of - Australian natural resources was employed by foreignowned companies but, according to the 1974 survey by Professor McKern 25.7 per cent of the total funds invested, that is about $ 1,100m, was provided by the Australian capital market. Professor McKern also noted that Australian companies were not prepared to undertake the risk of high debt equity ratios which subsidiaries of foreign multinational corporations were able to assume. Furthermore, the very size of foreign multinational corporations compared with the generally small Australian companies means that foreign subsidiaries are more attractive to Australian investors and Australian financial institutions than are Australian companies. 
The fact that foreign multinational corporations are able to compete on unfairly favourable terms with Australian companies to obtain loan funds in Australia raises the question of why this Government has not seen any need to protect the access of Australian controlled enterprises to the Australian capital market. Indeed, of existing financial institutions in this country, only the AIDC has a positive bias in favour of Australian companies. If the limited capital resources available within Australia are to be effectively mobilised for investment in Aus.tralian controlled enterprises, then it would seem logical to restrict the access of foreign controlled companies to local sources of funds and to require foreign subsidiaries to raise loans overseas. That would have a beneficial effect on our balance of payments and would reduce the distorting effect which the competition from giant global multinationals for scarce Australian capital has on the Australian capital market and financial institutions. 
Thirdly, the fact that the statement lacks any proposals for a more effective mobilisation of Australian capital means that the terms will be determined by foreign multinational corporations in their own interests. Professor Johns said in a statement to the Senate Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control: 
If the foreign-owned mining companies are free to determine the extent of local equity participation and the timing of share issues to the Australian public there is likely to be little economic benefit to this country. Indeed, there may be positive disadvantages in a small Australian equity obtained at the discretion of an overseas-controlled concern. 
In other words, Australian investors are to be allowed the opportunity to participate, but at premium prices, and to be subject to the continued effective control of overseas corporations. The fourth ground is that the so-called 50 per cent rule is of dubious practicability because it provides no guarantee that the large input of Australian equity capital will result in effective control by Australia-ns of the enterprise concerned. Accordingly, the rule makes no effective provision for the mobilisation of capital for investment in Australian controlled enterprises engaged in resource development. The fact that the companies which development Australia's natural resources are mostly foreign controlled means that Australia thereby loses the development of Australian-controlled corporate organisations. The fact that Australians participate as individuals in management, as technologists and technicians, does not make up for the fact that the organisations which employ them are in fact foreign owned and controlled. That might be called the 'lost opportunity' cost of the present pattern of mining of Australian natural resources. 
If Australian controlled enterprises are to be acquired on terms which are not prohibitively expensive or discriminatory, then it is essential that institutional means be established effectively to mobilise Australian equity capital and invest it in the coherent majority or plurality voting blocs of shareholders and directors, which are able to exercise control over the enterprise concerned. Neither existing institutions nor existing Government policy is capable of achieving the broad objective of Australian control. That is the fatal flaw. The achievement of Australian control of new development projects depends upon new organisational mechanisms for mobilising savings of ordinary Australian householders for investment in major projects. That was the purpose of the national investment fund proposed by the previous Labor Government, which was tossed out repeatedly by the Liberal Opposition, I understand basically on the ground that it was socialistic, although in fact all it did was provide means to secure and guarantee investment by the Australian public. 
The goal of Australian control of new development projects is objectively impossible to achieve unless an organisation or network of organisations such as the proposed national investment fund is established to attract funds away from the existing capital market and financial institutions and channel them in to major development projects. Otherwise, the required combinations of capital and entrepreneurial organisations simply do not exist. If the AIDC is to play a major role in the achievement of Australian control it needs access to more investment capital. It also requires authorisation to achieve Australian control in each major project through the establishment in each case of a specialised Australian holding company which will consolidate the Australian equity in the particular project so that Australian control of the enterprise can be achieved and maintained. Ordinary citizens in a nation of notorious gamblers may be prepared to take huge risks with relatively small sums but quite realistically be unprepared to take smaller risks with their life savings. Ordinary citizens can hardly be blamed for not wanting to put their money at risk on the stock exchange when proper regulation of the securities and exchange industry will be abandoned by this Government. But even with a properly regulated stock exchange, the risk involved is too great for people to put their life savings on the line. To mobilise capital from ordinary Australian households, a governmentguaranteed financial institution which presents attractive investment prospects to the ineffectively mobilised resources of household savings obviously is indispensable. 
I want to conclude with some remarks on the need for the use of Australian natural resources to be based on a national minerals and energy policy. The policy should set out priorities for the exploration and exploitation of our resources. It should in fact develop policies for our future needs both at national and international level. If the national government fails to regulate the use of minerals and energy in the national interest, multi-national corporations will use them in the interests of their world wide, vertically and horizontally integrated conglomerate structures. This has happened already in Canada, where United States' investment in oil and gas has reached the level of 90 per cent ownership. An article which appeared in the  New York Times Weekly Review  last January pointed out that 20 big oil companies control 94 per cent of United States oil reserves; the 18 largest oil companies produce 60 per cent of the natural gas supply; sixteen of the eighteen own oil shale interests; eleven possess huge coal reserves; sixteen have bought into uranium; three own solar energy companiesand the only geothermal lands in production in the United States are owned by one oil company. In this way not only is each type of energy vertically integrated from mineral source to consumer outlet, but also all types of energy have been horizontally integrated into energy conglomerates. As a result, the price of coal is regulated by oil companies which already own 44 per cent of the privately held coal reserves. 
These oil companies make development decisions for the coal industry and other sources of energy to protect their investments in declining oil reserves by limiting competition from other energy sources. Eight US oil companies already have across the board positions in every other fuel or energy conglomerate, in other words, alternative sources. These energy conglomerates in North America are subject to neither effective competition nor control. Changes in consumer behaviour do not regulate the energy conglomerates; rather, the energy conglomerates regulate the changes in consumer behaviour. 
We need 2 basic elements in a policy for foreign investment in Australia's natural resources. First, we need a policy goal of effective Australian control of all new development projects at the level of the individual enterprise. To achieve that goal we need new institutions to mobilise Australian capital and invest it effectively on favourable terms. Secondly we need an energy policy to regulate the use of our minerals and energy from the long-term national perspective of the national interest. Otherwise, Australian minerals and energy resources will be used in the interests of world-wide, vertically and horizontally integrated energy conglomerates. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Does the Government intend to make available some $300m at very small interest rate to a consortium of large multi-national companies to develop the natural gas field off the North West Shelf. 
2 ) If so why does the Government consider it necessary to make available subsidised moneys to some of the largest multi-national companies in the world for a project which is potentially one of the most profitable in Australia 's history. 
Will he give an assurance that if $300m is to be provided to the consortium through the intervention of his Government, it will be made available through equity participation rather than as a net subsidy by the Australian taxpayer. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the recent collapse of the Bell Insurance Co. Pty Ltd, particularly following the Government's decision in December 1 975 to refuse the company an authorisation, after it had failed to meet the solvency provision of the Insurance Act. 
In view of the statement by the provisional liquidators when they emphasised that people insured with Bell should get other cover, will he make a public statement to advise these people of the protection available to them. 
Will he call for and table in the House the request from the Insurance Commissioner on this company 's liquidation. 
As I have persistently pressed for appropriate amendments to the Insurance Act and the Life Insurance Act for provisions relating to the competency of directors, and the need for adequate surveillance or control over such companies' investments, will he now give urgent consideration to altering the Acts accordingly. 

 Mr Lynch: The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
It will not be possible to determine the company's current financial position until the provisional liquidator makes his report. The deposit of $24,000 lodged by Bell Insurance Co. Pty Ltd, in accordance with the requirements of the 
Insurance (Deposits) Act 1932-1973, would be available to assist, if necessary, in the settlement of claims under policies issued by the company. 
I have appointed an inspector under Part V of the Insurance Acts 1973 to report on the affairs of Bell Insurance Co. Pty Ltd. The question of publication of the inspector's report cannot be determined until it is received and its full implications have been studied. 
The possible inclusion in the Commonwealth's insurance legislation of specific provisions relating to the competency of directors of insurance companies raises major issues that would require detailed consideration by the Government. In this context, I am advised that the provisions of the Insurance Companies Act 1974 of the United Kingdom dealing with the competency of the directors have recently been the subject of significant controversy in that country. 
The existing provisions of the Insurance Act 1973 and the Life Insurance Act 1945-73 enable a close supervision over the disposition of insurance companies' assets and, against this background, consideration is not currently being given to specific legislative provisions for the control of investments by insurance companies. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to reports, published in the Queensland press in late 1975, which reveal that cane toads are now found several hundred miles inland from the Queensland coast near the headwaters of the Darling River. 
Is the Department concerned that these pests may become established in New South Wales, Victoria, or South Australia. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it a fact that the Government has recently expressed concern over events in Angola and has stated that it will maintain present diplomatic and economic links with South Africa while opposing moves to expel South Africa from international bodies. 
How are Australian interests or those of the Angolan people advanced by the Government's delay in recognising the present Angolan Government. 
When was the last time that an official Government delegation visited Southern Africa. 
Does he intend to undertake a tour or lead a delegation to South African nations thereby to assess fully the situation in that part of the world, so that future Australian policies towards South Africa can be based on first-hand appreciation of the situation there, and in turn enable the South African states to appreciate the position of the Australian Government. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Can he say how many visible surface warships or sighted submarines of the Soviet Union were in the Indian Ocean in each of the years 1971, 1972, 1973, 1974 and 1975 and to what categories of warships, e.g. cruiser, destroyer, submarine, mine-sweeper, etc., do they belong. 
Is there any estimate of the ship days spent in the Indian Ocean by these vessels in each year; if so, what are the details. 
Is he able to say to what facilities in what countries Soviet warships have access. 
Are statistics available as to how many Soviet warships have passed through the Suez Canal since its re-opening. 
Does the Australian Navy have its own reconnaissance to monitor these movements, or are the statistics supplied by British or United States or other reconnaissance. 
Do Australian satellites sweep the Indian Ocean area in regular orbits. 
Has he any information as to whether Soviet, American, British, or any other satellites also sweep the Indian Ocean area in regular orbits. 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister for National Resources, relates to the level of Australian equity in uranium. I preface it by referring to Professor John's warning in his submission to the Senate Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control. He said: 
If foreign owned mining companies determine the extent of local equity and the timing of share issues to the public there is likely to be little economic benefit, indeed, there may be positive disadvantages. 
I ask: Is it a fact that the Jabiluka uranium deposit is 52 per cent Australian owned? Is it a fact that the Getty Oil Co. will have to divest its 35 per cent ownership- the cost of this stake is $35m- if Pan-Continental Mining is to meet the Government 's criterion of 75 per cent Australian equity? What action does the Government intend to take to guarantee Australian shareholders that their deposit will be developed if the Getty Oil Co. refuses to cash in its shares? 
I move: 
That, in the opinion of this House, the Government should implement forthwith a natural disaster insurance scheme. 
Regrettably, Australia has been and will continue to be devastated by one type of natural disaster or another, each with varying degrees of intensity and devastation. Natural disasters will strike whenever or wherever they will. We as a national Parliament have a responsibility to extend to the people as far as is legislatively practicable the maximum cover and security possible. This can be achieved by taking a number of initiatives. The most important is the implementation of a natural disaster insurance scheme. For the past 3 years I have struggled for its adoption and the first break through came with the acceptance in principle of the need by the former Treasurer, the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  last November. To the honourable member for Oxley goes the real credit for this initiative becoming a national commitment. Equally welcome was the response of the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  in answer to my question on 4 March when he committed this Government to the implementation of such a scheme. 
Floods, earthquakes, bushfires and cyclones in recent times have battered insurance companies nearly as much as their clients. Sections of the insurance industry have alleviated much of the hardship associated with natural catastrophes. The number and magnitude of disasters in recent years have threatened the solvency of insurance companies to such a degree that they have been left with no room to manoeuvre in upgrading insurance cover in this field. We need only recall cyclone Tracy and the 1967 Tasmanian bushfire to realise the devastation that can be wrought by nature when unleashed. After both disasters we were faced with the enormity of human suffering, loss of life, destruction of property and the economic hardship and dislocation inflicted by these things. Cyclone Tracy highlighted the need for a better system of natural disaster insurance. The magnitude of the devastation in Darwin took insurers by surprise. Cyclone Althea, previously Australia's most destructive cyclone, hit Townsville in 1971 and caused damage estimated at less than 10 per cent of the sum insured. Cyclone Tracy, on the other hand, caused damage estimated to cost between 80 per cent and 90 per cent of sums insured which made it the most disastrous loss in insurance history. It even surpassed the 1906 San Francisco earthquake. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table setting out the major natural disasters which occurred between 1939 and 1976. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the recent collapse of a Melbourne insurance broker and agent, K. B. and L. J. Roberts Holdings Pty Ltd. 
If so, can he say whether the collapse of this company has left many of its customers without insurance cover. 
Can he also say whether a number of insurance companies have been left without premiums having been paid, and liabilities they were not aware of, as a result of the collapse. 
In view of the urgent need for legislation and regulation for insurance brokers and agents, will he give urgent consideration to introducing the long promised brokers legislation. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice: 
1 ) Does the Minister propose to allow Nissan and Toyota to participate as manufacturers of passenger motor vehicles in the 85 per cent local content plans announced by the previous Government in late 1 974. 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the savings in terms of capital costs and consequent efficient manufacture which will flow from the formation of a consortium to produce 4-cylinder engines at Lonsdale. 
Is it proposed to impede the progress of this venture by asking the Australian Industry Development Corporation not to join the proposed consortium. 
Why has the Minister not responded to the applications by Nissan and Toyota to manufacture passenger motor vehicles in Australia. 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the repercussions of this delay on the planning for the future of component manufacturers in Australia who would gain considerable new business from the entry of these companies. 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the Industry Assistance Commission's report on the passenger motor vehicle industry released on 31 October 1975; if so, does it predict that any long-term delay in the re-sourcing of high cost components could threaten the viability of the industry and lead to far greater employment consequences than if there is a return to the very high protection of the past. 
Will the Minister give the 85 per cent plans the goahead, and encourage the movement towards more economic activities such as the joint Nissan/Toyo.ta/Chrysler/AIDC engine plant at Lonsdale. 
Is it a fact that the uncertainty which presently surrounds the passenger motor vehicle industry is placing in jeopardy a soundly based new venture at Lonsdale in South Australia which would be capable of employing over 1000 additional people initially, and offers prospects for additional related employment in the longer term. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) As the Australian Government insurance legislation is very similar in structure to that of the  Insurance Companies Act  1974 of the United Kingdom, will he give urgent consideration to having incorporated into the Australian legislation provisions dealing with (a) control of insurance company investments and (b) oversight of the suitability of directors and other executive officers of such companies. 
In relation to the  Insurance Acts  1973, will he take steps to have it amended by including a new section 21 A similar to section 7 of the United Kingdom Act, with consequential amendments to section 22 and 27. 
Will he also take steps (a) to amend section 29 by inserting a new provision that a person is not a fit and proper person to manage the affairs of a body corporate, (b) to amend section 52 by inserting the provision in section 39 of the United Kingdom Act, (c) to insert new sections 62A, 62 B and 62C similar to sections 52, 53 and 54 of the United Kingdom Act and (d) to amend section 30 to incorporate the investment provisions contained in section 30 of the United Kingdom Act. 
Will he also give urgent consideration to having simi lar amendments made to the  Life Insurance Act  1945-1973. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Further to Question No. 2 1 4 relating to the recent collapse of the Bell Insurance Co. Pty Ltd and as no public statement was issued either by the Insurance Commissioner or himself subsequent to the refusal of an authorisation in December 197S, will he take immediate steps to introduce appropriate legislative measures to ensure that the public is informed and, in particular to enable policy holders to seek alternative cover. 
asked the Minister for National Resources, upon notice 
1 ) As sub-clause 28a (3) of the River Murray Waters Agreement requires the River Murray Commission from time to time to inspect or cause to be inspected such portions of the catchment of the Hume Reservoir as it thinks fit, (a) at what times and in what areas have inspections been carried out since 1 948, the year this provision was incorporated into the Agreement, (b) on what occasions and in connection with what works has the Commission considered that measures or works undertaken in this area by the States were not effective, and (c) has the Commission ever required action from the States under sub-clause 28a (4). 
With reference to the report of the Commission for 1973-74 wherein it is noted that a feature of the repeated floodings of 1973-74 was the large run-off from the low foot hills and the flood plains of some Victorian catchments and the increased salt loadings of such flood discharges, (a) what studies have been made of this source of River Murray salinity and (b) are any schemes, to prevent water of high salinity which may arise from these areas in time of flood, being investigated or considered by the relevant authorities. 
What information is available on the effect of European Carp on the quality of River Murray water. 
What studies have been made, or are being made, on the long term effects of European Carp on the ecology of the River Murray system. 
What means are available to control the number of these fish, and what measures are currently being considered by the relevant authorities to control their numbers in the River Murray system. 
What steps have been taken, and by which authorities, to ensure that catchment conditions in the Lake Hume region do not deteriorate due to pressures from the AlburyWodonga development area. 
In view of the great expansion in 10-20 acre farmlet subdivisions in hills surrounding major Australian cities in the last few years, is he able to guarantee that the strong pressures that will arise to create this type of sub-division in the Albury-Wodonga area can be resisted. 
8 ) Will he consider ways of ensuring that the constructing of tracks and water storages, and the grazing of cattle on steep land within the Hume catchment area, can be better controlled and policed to ensure that the stability of the catchment is not threatened. 
Does the Commission or any other authority measure the concentration of pollutants, such as weedicides, insecticides, and fertilisers in the River Murray. 
If so, how regularly, and at what locations, are measurements made. 
1 1) Do these measures distinguish between the various types of pollution. 
12) Is the information obtained sufficient to pin-point the areas mainly responsible for this type of pollution. 
Are any alternative types of weedicides or pesticides available which would cause less damage to the environment than those found in the River Murray. 
14) Are there any particular brands or types of pesticides and weedicides found in the River Murray that are causing most concern; if so, why. 
15) What proportion of these pollutants reach the River Murray from tributaries not under the jurisdiction of the Commission, and in particular, what is the estimated amount of pollution reaching the River Murray from the Darling River catchment area of Queensland, a State which is not party to the Agreement. 
16) To what degree do pollutants of the type mentioned in parts (14) and (15) break down chemically in passing down to the lower reaches of the River Murray. 
What controls are placed on the use of pesticides, weedicides or fertilisers in the River Murray catchment areas. 
What steps are being taken or are proposed to reduce the amount of these pollutants in the River Murray. 
-I address a question to the Minister for Transport. It relates to the AdelaideCrystal Brook Standard Gauge Railway Agreement, which was ratified by both the Australian Government and the South Australian Government. It places an obligation on both governments jointly to build an independent railway line from Adelaide to Crystal Brook. Did the Minister give the South Australian Minister an unqualified assurance last February that the standardisation program would proceed in accordance with the Agreement? The Prime Minister can stare, but he gave the same undertaking to the Premier. 
-As all these tax Bills, particularly those providing for indexation, relate to a reduction of revenue for the Government I would like to draw attention to another possible reduction which could be substituted in part, that is, the mounting public reaction against the Government's intention to abrogate, abnegate and destroy those projects, programs and policies which the preceding Labor Government initiated and which were all structured to improve the quality of life of so many people. That was never put more bluntly than it was in last Sunday's Adelaide  Sunday Mail  in an article, under the heading 'Welfare Minister ' ' shocked ' ', ' which said: 'Shocked and bitterly disappointed'. 
That was the reaction yesterday of South Australia's Community Welfare Minister,  Mr Payne,  to the announcement by the Social Security Minister,  Senator Guilfoyle,  that the Federal Government would cease to provide funds for the Australian Assistance Plan after 12 months from 1 July. 
He believed the State governments had been presented with a fait accompli' . . . [Under AAP, introduced by the previous Labor Government, the Commonwealth provided financial help for community welfare programs through the Regional Councils in which there was considerable local community participation.] . . .  Senator Guilfoyle  had put these plans in jeopardy . . . 'The SA Government is firmly committed to the community councils for social development established under State legislation', the Minister said. 'The development of regional councils with Federal support was integrated into the scheme by agreement between the Federal and State Ministers. 'The Federal Government move away from this area will create a crisis of care for certain needy people which cannot be overlooked'. 
The article concludes: 'I regret that the present Australian Government seems to be hell bent on dismantling everything set up by the previous Government, irrespective of the worth of the project concerned',  Mr Payne  said. 
Since it assumed office last December this Government's rating in sheer weight of numbers and its achievements in the area of broken records, pledges and promises will be enshrined forever in the  Guinness Book of Records. 
The transport policies of this Government remind me of a thought for the day which I saw on a calendar yesterday and which said: 'Buses of our transport system must fear attack; they always travel in convoys'. Certainly a war of attrition on the viability of transport in Australia was declared not only in the so-called economic statement of the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  but also by these tax measures. In spite of the continuing chaos in public transport in Sydney and in Melbourne, in spite of the demands by the people of New South Wales for improved public transport as endorsed in the recent New South Wales election and in spite of the hopeless position of the State railways systems with their massive losses, their ever deteriorating debt position and their antiquated rolling stock, this Government has decided to add a further statistic to its claim for a slot in the  Guinness Book of Records. 
In this House today I asked the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  a question relating to something that is very crucial to South Australia; that is, the implementation of an agreement ratified by both Parliaments- this Parliament and the State Parliament- in regard to the Adelaide-Crystal Brook standard gauge railway project. I asked whether that agreement places an obligation on both governments to build a new independent railway link between Adelaide and Crystal Brook. I further asked the Minister whether in fact he gave the South Australian Minister of Transport, as the Prime Minister did shortly after the election last December, an unqualified assurance that the agreement in fact would be implemented. I also asked the Minister whether it is a fact that he has instituted a committee of inquiry which, in my view at any rate, undoubtedly will repudiate the agreement. The answer will appear in  Hansard.  At this time it will bring very little comfort to the people of South Australia to know that- there is no doubt in my mind about this- the Minister for 
Transport in this Government is machinating to opt out of and destroy the agreement. 
Whilst the statement of the Treasurer as a whole brought little joy to people-I refer to the tax measures- from South Australia's point of view the decision by the Government to ask an independent committee to inquire into the Adelaide-Crystal Brook standardisation project a calamity, it is a disaster for South Australia. As far back as 1940 the then Labor Government recognised the need to standardise the rail systems of Australia; but now, after 30 years, the matter is being questioned by the present Government as it did for almost 2 1/2 decades. The fact is that Adelaide is the only mainland capital which is not connected to the standard gauge rail system. Accordingly, it suffers the disability of either transshipment or bogie exchange to get its goods on the standard gauge system. When it is remembered that in excess of 85 per cent of the white goods manufactured in South Australia are sold on the eastern markets, the importance of an efficient, effective and economical transport system becomes self-evident. 
At this late stage, to establish a committee to inquire into the building of the standard line from Adelaide to Crystal Brook is, to say the least, astonishing. I point out that I had numerous discussions with the then Commissioner for Railways at the time the agreement was first negotiated. I am informed that the committee is to be asked to look at 4 particular points. For what purposes? Let me advance some constructive assumptions on my part as to the purposes of the inquiry: Firstly, to see whether the Commonwealth Government can get out of its commitment under the agreement. Secondly, to see whether it is possible to slow down the project to a snail's pace. Thirdly, to consider whether the line could be standardised by a different method. Fourthly, to look at any other areas where there could be a reduction in the financial commitment of the Australian Government. 
To analyse the criteria properly it is necessary to look back into the history of this standardisation project. As I said earlier, it was the Chifley Labor Government that enacted legislation in the late 1940s to provide for the rail systems of Australia to be converted to standard gauge. After 23 years of inactivity by successive Liberal governments, in the late 1960s the then Federal Government was persuaded that it was long overdue that Adelaide should be connected to the standard gauge system and accordingly it commissioned an inquiry and subsequently commissioned Maunsell and Partners to act as consulting engineers for the purpose of informing the Government and recommending a course of action. 
In late 1970 the present Minister for Transport, who was then the Minister for Transport, discussed the proposals with the present and also then Minister of Transport in South Australia. I was fully informed, like every other South Australian member, of the negotiations that took place at that time. The discussions largely centred round the Maunsell report. One of the matters discussed was the possibility of converting the existing 5 feet 3 inches gauge to the standard gauge of 4 feet 8te inches. This was a proposition that had been promoted assiduously by the then South Australian Commissioner of Transport. The Federal Minister for Transport rejected out of hand any suggestion that the work should be undertaken in any way other than the way recommended in the Maunsell report. I repeat that the Federal Minister for Transport rejected out of hand any suggestion that the work should be undertaken in any way other than the way recommended in the Maunsell report. His attitude then was that the Government had employed a competent firm of consulting engineers to advise it, and the Government was prepared to accept that advice but no other. He repeated that on no fewer than 6 occasions. In the light of that attitude, how can the Federal Minister now subscribe to the appointment of a committee to look at alternatives? Five years ago he was adamant that the line had to be built in accordance with the recommendations of the consultants that he commissioned. 
Whilst the rail standardisation agreement was not finalised during the period in office of the present Minister, the majority of the basic principles associated with the standardisation project in fact were resolved. The other matters which were resolved subsequently between the South Australian Minister and the then new Federal Transport Minister, the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones),  were issues such as the connection of the General MotorsHolden's plants at Elizabeth and Woodville, the connection of the Mile End goods yards and similar matters. I assume, as I always have assumed, that they were matters that in fact were left outstanding. 
The agreement was finalised on 17 May 1974 when the Prime Minister of the day, the present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  and the Premier of South Australia,  Mr Dunstan,  attached their signatures to the agreement. That agreement subsequently was ratified by the Parliament of South Australia and by this Parliament on 1 7 January 1 975 and was gazetted on 24 January 1975. The agreement provides for the building of the line, and particular attention ought to be paid to clause (3) on page 3, which says that the railway work to which the agreement relates should be: 
The construction of a new independent standard gauge railway . . . 
How can any government that is honest in its endeavours- I suggest that this one is not honest on this issue- seek now to inquire into whether a standard gauge line may be constructed in any way other than the way laid down in that agreement, despite the fact that a good deal moneytaxpayers ' money- was spent in commissioning engineers and reaching agreement? 
It is also worth saying that, immediately following the election of this Government last December, the Premier of South Australia, in discussion with the Prime Minister, referred to various agreements, including the standard rail gauge agreement, and received from the Prime Minister an unqualified assurance that the Fraser Government would honour every agreement- I repeat 'every agreement'- which had been entered into between the South Australian Government and the former Labor Government. I am informed that that assurance as to that agreement was given in the presence of the Federal Treasurer, the Leader of the National Country Party and the present Minister for Transport. It would seem from this that one must now seriously question any undertaking given by the Prime Minister as it appears that he is very likely to abrogate any promise given. I challenge the Minister to deny that on 23 February this year the State Minister of Transport in South Australia called on the Federal Minister at his office in this building to discuss finance for the Adelaide- Crystal Brook rail project. At that stage the Minister was attempting to curtail the provision of $2.7m which had been committed for the standardisation project. 
Subsequently, this matter was satisfactorily resolved, but I am informed that during the course of this meeting  Mr Virgo  raised the question of the future of the standardisation project with the Federal Minister because, he said, rumours were rife that the Federal Government was not going to proceed with the project.  Mr Virgo  received an unqualified assurance from the Minister that the project would proceed along the lines contained in the Maunsell report and the Agreement ratified by both parliaments. He said there could be some minor changes that might be desirable and acceptable to both the Australian and State Ministers but basically there was no doubt that the project would proceed in accordance with the Maunsell plan and the Agreement. This promise was given by the Minister for Transport in the presence of South Australian officers who accompanied  Mr Virgo.  It augurs well for this Government! Have we anything to look forward to from assurances, undertakings and promises when this sort of thing goes on between Federal and State Ministers? 
-Yes, of course they will! It is now clear that the promises of the Minister for Transport have very little value; otherwise there would be no investigation taking place. Indeed, one must now question why the Government is establishing an independent committee to consider the options available to it. There are no options other than to repudiate undertakings given, promises made and the legislation of both parliaments. The Federal Minister should disclose immediately his intentions and those of the Government in relation to the standardisation project and not hide behind promises which clearly he and the Government are not prepared to keep. 
The policies of this Government threaten the national railway system in another direction. The Government has placed, stupidly, a ceiling of 8000 on the number of Commonwealth railway workers. This is a reduction from the present work force of 8260. It is clear that this staff limit has been chosen arbitrarily without due regard to the requirements of the national railway system. At least the Australian Labor Party pledged itself to assist the States to modernise and rationalise their railway system but this Government intends to place on the employment market a futher 260 people. 
An instruction was issued by your Minister to that effect. What is rubbish about that? It is quite obvious that the Minister does not care. Repeated telegrams have been sent to him by  Mr Virgo  in an attempt to get some satisfaction. All the South Australian Minister and the affected unions could get was a telegram of acknowledgment. The unions require more if an industrial dispute is to be avoided. It is claimed in South Australia that the present railway staff works 1 1 to 13 shifts per fortnight. The employment of additional staff would have several effects. Firstly, it would produce a saving because overtime and penalty rates would not be applicable. Secondly, the quality of services would not be reduced. Thirdly, employment would be assured. The present industrial unrest in the Australian National Railways Commission is a result of pending dismissal notices. A reduction in staff is more likely to incur increased costs than it is to achieve savings. The terms of the South Australian Railways Agreement required that no person would be disadvantaged, that the level of services would not be diminished and that the workshop work force would not be reduced. The South Australian Railway Agreement is being examined, as I said earlier, for no other reason than for the Government to opt out of it. No new initiatives on urban public transport are contained in any of the documents that have been tabled in the Parliament. The $45m likely to be provided for 1976-77 is to cover existing commitments. Some re-allocation of priorities may be negotiated. This must have a detrimental effect on existing plans to upgrade the quality of suburban rail services. Priority for transfer in fact has been repudiated by the Minister for Transport. He acquiesces in the disastrous chopping of transport funds. 
The advance towards an effective national railway system gained momentum over the last 3 years; there is no question about that. This progress was years late in coming and there is still much to be done. Australia cannot now afford a government hell-bent on emasculating the Australian railways, apparently for no reason other than the fact that they were remodelled and expanded by the previous Government. Eventually the necessity of an effective national railway system will be brought home to most people in this country and particularly to this Government. For the sake of Australia let it be sooner rather than later. The whole action of the Government in this matter which is so vital to South Australia is a clear example that it will sacrifice anything and anybody to overcome inflation. It ought to be clear that the heaviest blow of the Government's projected policy to overcome inflation will be felt by the employees across the length and breadth of this country. The Government and the Minister for Transport stand condemned for abrogating an agreement which means so much to the economic stability of South Australia. 
I want to take up again the issue on which I spoke this afternoon regarding the weight given by the Government to the concept of the sacrificial lamb. I do not think there is any doubt that this Government will cure inflation by increasing the unemployment pool. I notified the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  that I intended to speak this evening on the matter of the reduction of technical staff in Telecom. I can do that best by quoting from a letter dated 24 April 1976 from the  President  of the sub-branch of the Telecom Training Centre in my State of South Australia to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  It reads: 
On behalf of the members of my association I wish to register our disgust with the methods being employed by Telecom Australia (SA) in relation to 
cost cutting 
demotion of personnel 
We are all employed by Telecom Australia as Technical Instructors Grade II and above, in the Telecom Training Centre, Adelaide. Because of the policy of your government in regards to recruiting, we have had ten Instructors demoted to either Technician or Technical officer. 
This policy which prevents Telecom from employing ap- prentices in highly technical spheres is against that of the Minister for Industrial Relations who has gone on record to say that industry needs to employ apprentices. Telecom Australia is an industry. In Adelaide we nave a large backlog of Telephone installations. Not training Telecom tradesmen most certainly will not help this situation improve. 
The Instructors that were demoted left the Training Centre in groups. The first group was given 12 working hours or less notice of their demotion. We found this most unsatisfactory and complained to Telecom through normal channels. We were assured that this would not re-occur, yet it has again. On Thursday, 15 April, 3 Instructors were told to report to their new positions at 8 a.m. on the next working day, i.e. the day after Easter Monday. Some of these people have been in the Training School for some time and require time to pack equipment and notes let alone their right of appeal. 
As I said,  Sir, we  find these things unacceptable and look to you in your position as Prime Minister to rectify them. 
Copies of that letter were sent to me, the Managing Director of Telecom Australia and the Manager of Telecom, South Australia. Why is it that although the Minister for Employment and 
Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  goes on television to persuade industry to employ apprentices we find that the intake of apprentices for Telecom Australia is cut back to minimal figures. For example, in New South Wales the intake was nil while the number required was 1 10; in Victoria the intake was 58 and the number required 112; in Western Australia the intake was nil and the number required 60; in South Australia the intake was 12 and the number required 80; in Queensland the intake was 47 and the number required 78; and in Tasmania the intake was 12 and the number required 24. It ought to be noted that these figures are approximate and apply to apprentices only. There have been traineeships but those also have been greatly reduced as most were 'in house' trainees, that is, previously employed apprentices promoted to trainees. 
With the backlog of telephone applications, due chiefly to staff shortages, why has not Telecom Australia increased its apprentice intake rather than reducing it? This applies in my area in South Australia particularly to Tea Tree Gully and the Modbury area. This situation was highlighted by a leading article which appeared in the Adelaide  Advertiser  of 10 March. Communications are undergoing great technological development at a time when training of skilled tradesmen has become vital. Yet in South Australia 10 skilled instructors have been demoted, not because of inefficiency but because of the Government's cost cutting. Can the Minister please explain why these costs are being cut in a most vital area? I know that the Minister will be in the House later and I ask him to give this matterI understand the situation applies throughout Australia and not merely in South Australiahis urgent consideration. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the recent ABC Science Program on the association between food additives and hyperactivity in children. 
Is there any research being carried out on the additives being put into foodstuffs. 
Could a symbol be adopted to be placed on all foods which are absolutely free from artificial colourings and flavourings. 
How many different additives are allowed by law to be used at present, and has there been adequate research carried out on them prior to their use. 
What organisation or firm has carried out or is currently carrying out research into the matter now. 
Will he take appropriate steps to ensure that manufacturers be compelled, by law, to mark on their products what flavourings, colouring and preserving agents are used in their products. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Transport. It relates again to the Adelaide-Crystal Brook standard gauge railway agreement. Will the Minister explain to the House and to the people why he has engaged  Mr K.  Aickin, Q.C., of Melbourne, to advise him and his Government on how to welsh on the Railways Agreement (South Australia) Act, in defiance of the decision of the Parliament and without the courtesy of advising either the Australian National Railways Commission or the South Australian Government of his actions? What fee is being paid to  Mr Aickin  for his services? Why was the advice sought not available from the Government's own law officers? 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Can he say how many visible surface warships or sighted submarines of (a) the United States of America, (b) the United Kingdom, (c) Iran and (d) France were in the Indian Ocean in each of the years 1971 to 1975 and to what categories of warships, e.g., cruiser, destroyer, submarine, minesweeper etc., do they belong. 
Is there any estimate of the ship days spent in the Indian Ocean by these vessels in each year; if so, what are the details. 
Is he able to say to what facilities in what countries in the Indian Ocean warships from these countries have access. 
Are statistics available as to how many warships from these countries have passed through the Suez Canal since its re-opening. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker - 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  put : 
That the question be now put. 
asked the Minister for National Resources, upon notice: 
What now constitutes an 'Australian uranium company' having regard to his recent joint statement with the Treasurer on foreign investment guidelines which announced that individual portfolio holdings of less than 10 per cent in an Australian uranium company would be disregarded unless there were special circumstances to be taken into consideration in a particular case. 
Is Pancontinental Mining Ltd regarded as an Australian mining company in view of the fact that an overwhelming proportion of its shares are owned by anonymous nominee companies whose identities cannot be obtained. 
How will the new guidelines apply in the case of Consolidated Gold Fields Australia Ltd which has been reported in the Adelaide  Advertiser  of 29 May 1976 as being approximately 68. 1 per cent foreign owned and having 1 5 per cent equity in Pancontinental Mining Ltd. 
Has his attention been drawn to the reports appearing in the  Advertiser  and the  Australian  of 29 May 1976 giving different interpretations of the new guidelines in the case of Consolidated Gold Fields Australia Ltd; if so, will he further clarify the guidelines. 
Will the special circumstances provision in the guidelines exclude Getty Oil U.S. from taking up a portfolio interest of less than 10 per cent in Pancontinental Mining Ltd in exchange for a reduction in its direct holding in the Jabiluka deposit 
My question to the Treasurer relates to the crucial need for a natural disaster insurance scheme. The Treasurer will recall my persistent questions on this matter and his commitment, as I understand it, to set up a working party to investigate and to report on the feasibility of such a scheme. That report, as I recall, was to be tabled in this Parliament at the end of the last sessional period or at least by July. Can the Treasurer inform the House whether he has received, or when he will receive, the working party report? More importantly, when will the legislation enabling a natural disaster insurance scheme to be established be presented in this House? 
-I rise to support the amendment. The Opposition's attitude to this miserly Budget is well set out in the opening paragraphs of the speech make by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  last Tuesday night, which read, in part: 
The Australian people have now seen the first Budget of the men who rejected the last . . .The wreckers of 1975 at last have told us what they would do . . . Throughout the year they have tried to blame their predecessors for all Australia's problems. They can do so no longer. This Budget is their answer. It is all their own work. The dishonesty, the heartlessness, the skinflint mentality, the deep social injustice which are the hallmarks of this Government will continue; but at least there can be no more excuses. 
Judged solely as an economic document the Fraser Budget is irrelevant to the nation's needs. Australia is in recession and the recession is deepening. This Budget, quite simply, does nothing about it. But it is worse than that. As a social document . . . the Budget is frightening ... It is a Budget of big business, by big business, for big business. 
Where in the Budget is there any help for those in most need? Great play is made on the Government 's rise in child endowment - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! There is no substance in the point of order. 
Great play is made on the Government's rise in child endowment last month; but surely that has been destroyed by the cut in wages as a result of the elimination of tax rebates in respect of children. Where is the extra money that the ordinary householder will have to spare? Income tax indexation was to be the injection necessary for increased spending, but this again is destroyed by the matching weight of the new Medibank levy. 
As I understand it, an opinion poll taken since the Budget was presented gave support to this Tory Budget. Obviously, to arrive at such a consensusI have this on very good authority- the poll was taken in such deprived areas as Hawthorn, Vaucluse, Darling Point, Toorak and Burnside! There is no doubt at all that it was taken also throughout the business community and the major mining companies. I will bet that the pollsters of these savage cuts in socially necessary areas consulted neither the people responsible for the administration nor the recipients in those areas and those needy people throughout the community who have to rely on the one avenue to sustain a reasonable standard of living. The  Age  sets out very vividly where this government's cuts have been so savage. There were 32 departments. Let me quote some of the cuts: Aboriginal programs $33m; growth centres $39m; land councils $28m; sewerage $63m; migrant education $llm; Medibank hospital benefits $118m; unemployment benefits $34m; Regional Employment Development scheme $153m; area improvement $15m; shipping $46m; uranium exploration $9m; shipbuilding $16m; export incentives $5 5m; and natural disaster payments $37m. This Government is very long on promises and platitudes but very short on cash to honour them. 
Not only has the Budget discriminated against the poor but it has put out very large doses to private industry and major corporations, particularly mining corporations. If there is anything that is a stark reality in the Budget it is the discrimination by this Government in favour of large mining corporations against small Australian companies. This again was set out quite well by the Leader of the Opposition last Tuesday night. He said: 
Why is the Government handing $33m to wealthy coal companies in this year alone with a 25 per cent cut in the export tax? The Government has no idea of the ultimate cost of its handouts, concessions and allowances to business and multinational oil and mining companies. 
Of course, the Government conducts an inquiry if it wants to cut money off programs for Aborigines, but it does not do that when it wants to grant concessions or largesse to mining companies. The Leader of the Opposition continued: 
The cost of the tax concessions to mining companies is given as $60m in a full year. The cost of the investment allowances is given as $200m this year and $600m next year. 
He continued: 
In the private sector, the challenge for future governments is to restore employment and strengthen our industries in ways that are lasting and genuinely beneficial to society . . . We have to identify the industries which offer most scope for employing our people and we have to build them up selectively with Government help. 
That will be a task for the next Labor Government. It will require processing plants for our own minerals- not just to provide jobs but to augment the value of our mineral exports. Our future does not lie in protecting weak industries with higher tariffs but in encouraging industries for which there are continuing markets. And they are most likely to be industries based on our natural resources. Australia would be infinitely better served if half the money this Government is spending to encourage foreign companies to carry away our resources were spent on plants and factories to develop more resources in Australia . . . Australia must ensure that the resources worth developing and the industries worth keeping- the ones most likely to give secure employment and continuing prosperity to our people- are built up and strengthened, if necessary by government assistance or direct public investment. 
I have spoken on this matter on numerous occasions in this House and I intend tonight to repeat my views. The world scramble for rapidly dwindling natural resources is one area which no government can afford to ignore. To do so would be to place at risk its people's future security and prosperity. It is in this area that the Budget is a disaster and it is in this area that this Government, after 23 consecutive years in government, is as barren as the Sahara Desert. If one looks at the implications of this Budget for the mining industry, for many big largely foreign-owned mining companies the Budget was another windfall on top of the huge profit increases in recent years. For instance, last year the coking coal industry netted $500m in profits, and sections of it, particularly in Queensland, are in a healthy financial position even with the full coal levy. Because of the Budget decisions, coal companies which are already making large profits from established mines will be treated in exactly the same way as companies trying to establish new mines. Established companies will reap a bonanza from the removal of the coal levy. 
For small Australian exploration companies the Budget does absolutely nothing. The Government has failed to distinguish the exploration side of the mineral industry from the development side. There are 2 types of exploration companies- those that are divisions or subsidiaries of mine operators funded by income from current mining activities, and those which are funded by the Australian public. Mining skills are not related to exploration, and public funded explorers technically lack nothing which is available to divisions of mining operators, yet Government policy clearly discriminates against them. It is almost as though the Federal Government had accepted the view that the large mineral groups should be encouraged at the expense of the small miner. As to the emphasis on mineral development rather than exploration, the words of the managing director of North Flinders Mines Ltd,  Mr G.  H. Stewart, put it very aptly: 
The Government has got its policy back to front. 
Let me return to the question of resources. The fact that the Budget reduces the national return on its resources, particularly as far as the reduction of the coal levy is concerned, is made even worse by its attitude to foreign investment. The Government is approving developments of resource projects, apparently regardless of the level of Australian equity, and there ought to be a full scale debate in the Parliament on that issue. While other governments throughout the world are moving to gain a greater share of benefits from their resources, this Tory government is moving in the opposite direction. 
Let us consider the lack of planning in resource development, and if ever there was an area in which this Government stood indicted it is this one. Perhaps the worst aspect of Government policy for the mining industry is that the Government has no plans for the future. It has disregarded the quantity of resources which should be exported and the degree of processing which should be carried out within Australia. The Government has no policy to prevent ^discriminate increases in the number of new projects. We could have over-production, particularly in iron ore and coal, which could place 
Australia in a critical over-supply position in world demand terms, and once again these industries would be at the mercy of overseas buyers. Expansion of resource projects without new markets surely will lead to lower prices. In addition, there is no provision for the future resource demands of Australia. The Government has revived the proposition of its former Tory governments that Australia should be one vast quarry for the world. There is no attempt to ensure that the maximum value is derived from mineral exploitation. 
From the point of view of the short term maximum profit for the individual company, maximum profit is achieved by extracting the resource and selling it in the raw or unprocessed form. From the national viewpoint maximum benefit is achieved through processing natural resources to the maximum extent. Continued export of raw materials ultimately reacts to the disadvantage of Australia and these resources are not infinite in extent. An example, perhaps relevant to the present policy decisions, is the case of iron ore being exported from Western Australia. While iron ore is sold for about $20 a tonne steel billet costs around $150 to $200 a tonne. From a raw material source of about $40 to $50 a tonne of steel billet produced the return to Australia ought to be enormous. The Government has a duty to ensure maximum added value on our resources at all levels. 
I take the example of mineral sands. For many years Australia had a world monopoly on mineral sands, particularly rutile. If we consider the value per tonne in terms of the contained titanium oxide, ilmenite has a raw mineral price of $ 1 5 a tonne and the price per tonne of ilmenite is $29. Pigment fetches $650 a tonne. There is a yield of more than $100 a tonne profit for pigment from ilmenite. As I understand it, only one company, Western Titanium NL, has a small plant to upgrade to ilmenite and 2 small plants in Western Australia and Tasmania purely for the local market. We have an obligation to maximise on that item rather than selling it out in its raw unprocessed form. I turn now to uranium. If we produce 10 000 tonnes a year, at a conservative figure of $20 lb. we ought to get a return of about $440m. But if we fail to double its value by enriching it we loose around $8 12m a year. I would not put the figure as high as that, but processing could yield a mark up figure of 60 per cent to 70 per cent on the base figure for oxide. 
While this conservative Government in Australia ignores the need for a comprehensive national policy on mineral development the Canadian Government has been moving in this direction since 1970. Like Australia it faces enormous problems because it is caught with a federated system. Canada, unlike Australia, has made more than significant progress in tackling this problem. The reasons behind Canada's review of its mineral policy are the same problems that Australia faces, and they are: The effect changes in global economic conditions can have on the mineral industry and on the economic wellbeing of the nation; the close relationship of the mineral industry to many economic and social problems, such as the rate and direction of economic development; the adequacy of supply to the domestic markets; environmental control; foreign ownership content; taxation; resource adequacy; and the role of multinational corporations. At least Canada since 1970 has implemented a national mineral policy review consisting of 5 phases by which it has at long last a balanced national mineral policy. The first 2 phases have been completed and the third phase of the program was under way when I was in Canada only 2 months ago. It consisted of an in depth study into IS crucial commodity resources within Canada. The basic goal of the Canadian mineral policy is summarised in these words: 
A national mineral policy must obtain optimum benefit for Canada from present and future use of minerals. 
If one looks at the Australian policy in contrast it could be well described as producing optimum benefit for a few foreign companies with no regard to the future use of minerals at all. Four options have been enunciated in Canada which illustrate clearly the deficiencies in the Australian policy. They are: Firstly, to continue to encourage maximum mineral production; secondly, to encourage economic diversification through increased mineral processing and mineral based manufacturing; thirdly, to obtain the highest possible net financial returns to Canadians from minerals and, fourthly, to conserve mineral resources for long-term domestic requirements. 
The -Government of Canada, through the respective State Ministers, if you like, has issued a publication titled 'Towards a Mineral Policy of Canada'. Three statements in this publication illustrate the requirements of such a mineral policy. The first is to the effect that, whatever direction mineral policy may take in the future, the first consideration must be to ensure an adequate supply of materials, whether from domestic or foreign sources. The second stated objective is to promote, encourage and increase Canadian ownership, control and participation with emphasis on the development of Canadian firms. The third requirement is that mineral policy should first seek, wherever possible, to increase diversification and growth of national and regional economies based on minerals. This would include not only increased mineral processing but also more mineral based manufacturing prior to export and strengthen ties with other sectors of the economy. 
It can be seen that the dilemma which Canada faced over the last 5 years is facing this country. We attempted for three solid years to get a balanced national policy both in terms of minerals and of the exploitation of our fuel reserves, but every time we attempted that we were blocked in this House both legislatively and constitutionally. Canada is in an identical situation to Australia, that is, that fuel reserves are rapidly running down and Canada faces a shortfall over the next decade. 
The Australian Government- there is no question of this at all- is unwilling or incapable of even discussing energy or minerals policies with the Australian States. While Canada has taken steps to resolve the complex and vexatious issue of Federal versus provincial taxation, the 1976 Australian Budget obviously provokes the issue. In his speech the Treasurer hints at looming conflict with the States should they re-impose the coal levy. The tax changes in the 197S Canadian Budget represent a practical way of acknowledging provincial resource levies and of taking them into account up to some reasonable limit in determining Federal taxable income while hopefully providing the provinces with scope for adjusting their own taxes. At least, federalism has a positive meaning somewhere in the world. 
The Canadian experience in formulating a national minerals policy has shown the way to this country. Unfortunately for Canada, slack policies in the past have resulted in a degree of foreign control of industry much higher in Canada than in any other industrialised country. It has also suffered indiscriminate exploitation of its non-renewable reserves for minimal return to the nation. Australia is still in the fortunate position of being able to learn from the experiences of other countries like Canada. I simply ask the Government: Must our resource situation reach crisis point before we learn the lesson that natural resources require national management if we are to achieve maximum national benefit? I support the amendment. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) Can he provide figures, on a monthly basis, of the various classes of Soviet naval ships which have operated in the Indian Ocean in the period January 1976 to June 1976, inclusive. 
Can he also indicate the extent of Soviet use of the Suez Canal for its naval vessels in the period March 1976 to June 1976, inclusive. 
My question, which is directed to the Attorney-General, is in relation to the Law Reform Commission. The Attorney-General is aware that over the years I have made repeated representations pressing the urgent need for a thorough review of insurance law, particularly in the areas of contracts, solvency, competency of directors and the level and area of assets of insurance companies. He will recall also that I made a full submission to him last May outlining the need for a review of insurance law to be referred to the Law Reform Commission. Can the . Minister indicate whether at long last this course has been agreed to? 
I address my question to the Minister for Transport. On 25 August the Leader of the Opposition asked the Minister a question about his announcement of 20 May that an independent committee would inquire into the Adelaide-Crystal Brook rail link. The Minister will recall that he would not accept any report but the Maunsell report, as I remember. In reply he said that he would be in a position within a few days to announce the membership of the committee of inquiry. When will the announcement be made, when will the committee complete its work and when will its results be made known? 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
Is it proposed to introduce legislation to complement the Companies (Foreign Take-overs) Act to protect minority 
Australian shareholders in overseas-owned companies or enterprises. 

 -Mr Deputy Chairman- 

Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
-I rise tonight to speak on the estimates for the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet and the Department of Administrative Services. I refer to the cutbacks by the Government in the Library services which highlight the false economy and the book burning approach of this Government's political, economic bankruptcy. We as politicians, and particularly back benchers, ought to be angered at this because the Library service is one service upon which we rely for our research material. The cutbacks amount to nothing more than petty cash. My attention was drawn to the cutbacks by an article that appeared in the  Australian Financial Review  of 1 1 August and which was written by Richard Ackland. I do not consider that I will get any mileage out of that learned journalist; I suppose the only thing I will get out of the  Australian Financial Review  will be a notice in the obituary column. But I commend the article to all honourable members, particularly back benchers. I do not know whether the interview took place with the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers)-  by the look of the article I could well understand that it did- or with the head librarian. The article reads: 
That tight cluster of scholars and researchers which forms the Commonwealth Parliamentary Library and operates down in the bowels of Parliament House is facing its toughest session in memory. 
Starved of funds, strapped for staff and capital equipment and with a doubling of its workload as a result of the army of research officers attached to the backbench, the Library will have a harrowing four months. 
In an effort to cope with the load it has already decided to cut a number of its traditional services, such as the range of newspapers it clips daily for members, transcripts of news and current affairs broadcasts . . . 
On top of the current information services provided by the highly competent staff there are also the research and analysis teams that provide papers and speeches for backbenchers. 
Some of the Library research unit estimate that their work load has increased by two-thirds since the advent of the backbench research staff, with no appreciable increase in the Library's human or material resources. 
The Library's problems are not helped by Ministers, who still insist on using its facilities despite the fact that they have enormous departments to undertake these tasks. 
The Prime Minister himself continues to use the Library despite the fact that he now has a huge team of public servants in his Department. 
He has a bigger entourage than the Caliph of the Hindu Kush the only difference is that the latter was more competent. To compound the situation the Governor-General,  Sir John  Kerr, has been using the services of the Library and adding to the strain on its limited resources. I might say, insofar as the Governor-General is concerned - 
I think he would have been far wiser if he had taken solace in the research department of the Parliament Library and the Solicitor-General, rather than in the Chief Justice of the High Court. The constitutional question comes in under the estimates for the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. There is no doubt at all that this goverment prostituted the Constitution, debased the conventions upon which the Constitution operates and it used the Constitution for no other reason than to accomplish its deplorable, Tory, political machinations. 
I find it very odd when Government supporters say that we have created a monster, because on 3 occasions I have spoken in this chamber on this question of the synchronisation of elections of both Houses of this Parliament. Government supporters opposed this question on 3 occasions. Now we find the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  is addressing law councils throughout this country and requesting a referendum on the question of the synchronisation of elections of both Houses. I wonder why? 
I think he most probably did, and I am very grateful that he has done so. Could it be rather that at long last he has woken up to the fact that the 3 Labor State governments may decide to use their prerogative, when it suits them, to hold elections for the Senate in those 3 States? I suggest to honourable members opposite that they should sit down and seriously look at what they have created. This is the reason why I assume the Prime Minister is very concerned that there be a synchronisation of elections of both Houses, rather than the matter being left to the manipulations of State Premiers who have the total right to bring out the Senate when they choose. I return to the question of cutbacks in the services provided by the Parliament library. The thing that worries me is the cutback in the alert services. The article continues: 
The 'alert' service which notifies members of new publications in areas where they have expressed an interest is to be abolished. 
The provision of transcripts of current affairs programs is to be cut . . . 
Lateline and Perspective will be cut out altogether. 
The article concludes with a very telling peroration. This is the aspect that concerns me. It states: 
The most consistent users of the library's services, particularly the research service, are of course the back benchers, and in particular the Opposition back benchers. 
Clearly, any diminution in the Parliamentary Library's resources is designed to hit the Opposition hardest. 
I wonder why? The other matter which concerns me is a circular distributed by the head librarian dated 14 September. The circular makes 3 observations. It states: 
In keeping with the Government's philosophy- which has the support of the Presiding Officers . . . 
Indeed we may soon be expected to provide a better service with fewer staff resources. . . . I want each officer to whom this minute is addressed to consider and report to me . . . 
What concerns me as a back bencher is that I was not consulted on this matter. The service provided by the Parliamentary Library is an integral part of my structure as a politician. If members of Parliament are to be effective and efficient, particularly in Opposition, we require and we have to rely on the services of the Library for much of the material that we receive. I suppose I have as wide a range of interest as most members of this Parliament. I have no doubt that all members of Parliament regard the Library service as an excellent service. The members of the staff of the Library are competent and first class. There are many areas of interest which I want updated constantly. These areas include oil, coal, hyro.carbons energy - 
Yes, uranium. Another area in which I have a vital interest as a member and want to be effective is that of insurance lawwhether it is general insurance, life insurance, natural disaster insurance or brokers' legislation. The other area in which I have a vital interest and in which honourable members on both sides of the House should be interested concerns corporations and securities. If ever there was a need for national legislation in this country it is in both these areas. It never fails to amaze me that Liberals, either in this chamber or in State parliaments, seem to have a vested interest in the protection of corporate spivs or corporate manipulators or people who fraudulently manipulate corporate affairs. Members of Parliament, particularly back benchers, will become effective only if they have the right of access to the competent research staff in the Parliamentary Library. I deplore the fact that a government could be so niggardly as to carve off what amounts to no more than petty cash. Every back bencher in this Parliament should stand up and condemn the whittling away, the strangulation of the one resource that makes him an effective and efficient politician. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Did the States vote unanimously at a recent meeting of the Standing Committee of Attorneys-General in rejecting the Australian Government's proposal that the States should take over the running of the Australian Legal Aid Office. 

 -Mr Chairman, in speaking - 
Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
-Did the Prime Minister during an interview with the  Australian  last Tuesday state that he proposed to change the tax system from the present system of rebates to the discriminatory concessional deductions system? If so, are the changes to be comprehensive or selective? What effect would such changes have on revenue, on tax rates, on the Medibank levy and on child allowances? If there would be no loss of revenue, would there not be a redistribution of the income tax burden in favour of people on higher incomes at the expense of people on lower incomes? 
-In speaking to the estimates for the Department of National Resources, my remarks are predicated on 4 assumptions: Firstly, Australia will mine its uranium; secondly, we will export it; thirdly, we ought not to export it just as yellow cake or hexafluoride but we ought to pursue a policy of maximising the added value by enrichment. That course was recommended in a recent report by the Australian Atomic Energy Commission. Fourthly, there is no better location for such an enrichment plant than in South Australia. I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  a submission by the South Australian Government to the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  setting out the reasons why such a plant ought to be established at Redcliff. 

 The document read as follows- 

ATTRACTIONS OF THE SITE TO THE COMMONWEALTH GOVERNMENT 
In general terms, the Redcliff site has all the prerequisites for an economic uranium processing activity. These prerequisites are not available in the Northern Territory for an efficient and progressive industry, e.g., a stable and specialised work force, reliable services and good transportation. 
The Redcliff site is recommended for immediate detailed examination for the reasons itemised below, and because substantial site investigations and urban planning, which have already been carried out in connection with a major feasibility study on a world-scale petrochemical complex, provide confirmation of its attractiveness as an industrial site, and could mean a time saving of up to two years in the establishment of the centre. 
1 ) The site is on the seaboard, close to Port Pirie, which has all the handling facilities necessary for product despatch. Deepwater at the site can provide direct access for shipping if required. Port Pirie is on the recognised route of vessels engaged in Australian trade with Europe, the U.S.A. and Japan. 
The site is centrally placed in relation to Australia's uranium resources and probably more secure by virtue of its inland seaboard location. 
The site has already been subjected to substantial environmental study and no major problems in this context have been identified. 
The site is not subject to extremes of weather, such as cyclones, monsoon rains or tidal waves, and is relatively safe from seismic activity. 
The site is adjacent to good rail, road and communication services. 
Sufficient supplies of power and water can be made available. 
The site is close to Port Augusta, Port Pirie and Whyalla, where products from the steel industry, chemical industries and engineering and other services can be made available to supply construction and operational needs. Proximity to Adelaide additionally can enable manufacturing industry there to play a major role in the establishment of the centre. 
8 ) A well-housed supply of construction and plant operators can be drawn upon from the above established population centres where new housing and community services have already been planned in advance for employees and management staff of the Redcliff petrochemical project, which was subsequently abandoned. 
The site offers ample land for expansion and development. 
10) The site is reasonably close to a number of Commonwealth establishments such as research centres and railway workshops which could provide a service to the project. 
The site offers comparatively low infrastructure costs and considerable time savings because of the planning and environmental work which has been done already in connection with the Redcliff petrochemical project. 
The site offers ready proximity to scientific research and training centres in Adelaide, including the Australian Mineral Development Laboratories (Amdel), Adelaide Universities and Technological Institutes, where skilled operatives, scientists and engineers can be readily trained and/or recruited. 
The site offers scope in a ready availability of capacity for centrifuge manufacture through the Adelaide motor industries and allied supply sources. 
The site leaves open the option of further developments, such as nuclear power generation (should this become an acceptable and necessary energy alternative in the future) and associated spin offs, such as sea-water desalination. South Australia's energy and water resources are limited compared with those of other States of the Commonwealth. Both nuclear power and desalination may be necessary to supply these vital requirements to its industries and people in the future. 
-The history of this Government's management of natural resources is scarred by uncontrolled exploitation. This has been reflected in the deliberate theft of people's rights in the sell-out of their shares in Mary Kathleen Uranium Ltd. The Government has removed the Australian Atomic Energy Commission from uranium mining at a time when the importance to Australia of close control of uranium export policies is essential for orderly marketing and the structure of marketing is going to be crucial. The action of the former Minister for Minerals and Energy in preventing the sale of Australian uranium at sell-out prices has contributed to the present escalation in the value of Australian resources overseas. In 1972 the price stood at $5 per lb and, taking 500 000 short tons at $30 per lb at the moment, one gets a value of about $33,000m. It needs little calculation to assess the mammoth sell-out that would undoubtedly have occurred under a Tory government had it remained in office in 1 972. 
The importance of Australia's reserves has to be gauged in a world context. In spite of frantic exploration for uranium in the west, suitable high grade ore is not being discovered in anything like the quantities needed. There is no surer indication of scarcity than price. The price of yellow cake has rocketed from $5 per lb in 1972 to $30 or $40 per lb this year. As uranium is strategically, politically and economically important, it ought to call for total government control. The Australian Government- this Governmentmust be the only government in the world which is disengaging itself from the uranium supply situation. Since the present Government is unlikely to be persuaded to buy into the uranium industry or to dominate exploration, its intended role, if any, will be in marketing. 
It seems obvious to me that insufficient thought has been given to setting up a compulsory government-to-government marketing structure, and surely uranium justifies this control. At present the royalty on uranium produced in the Northern Territory stands at  Vh  per cent. Given that the present Government is pulling out of direct equity in uranium, there is a good case for a very large royalty- by Australian standards -to be applied. That is, instead of about 5 per cent, as normally envisaged, we should be asking  for something like 50 per cent of the sale price. At $30 per lb, that still leaves a profit for a mining company of $14m on a production base of 1000 tonnes a year. If the known Australian reserves of yellow cake are averaged, the Government would receive $1 1,700m. Failure to pursue a policy of maximising the added value of this resource at a time when we can confidently expect other nations to supply the technology and capital resources is wilful neglect, at best. Australia does not need nuclear power. It does not need uranium for some time to come. But as an energy commodity uranium is sought by many nations, and this Government has the responsibility to supply on terms of what is economically best, what is best for posterity and what is best for Australia's international relations. The uranium industry has the potential to contribute to the Australian economy on a scale which probably exceeds that of any other single development. By 1980 it would be one of the most important mineral exports in terms of overseas earnings. The industry could provide employment for between 8000 and 10 000 people by 1985. This leads to the concern that Australians must have for setting up the uranium industry on sound development lines if we are to gain the benefits from its full exploitation. 
In South Australia interest in uranium has persisted from the Second World War, when the first call was made by the United Kingdom Government. That led to the setting up in my State of AMDEL, which played a major role in developing all subsequent uranium treatment plants of the 1950s and 1960s. It led to the setting up in 1953 of the Atomic Energy Commission, after the South Australian Government and the Commonwealth had agreed to export uranium so that Australia would have the best technical expertise available to co-operate with the States and allow Australia to move, if needed,- into nuclear power generation. South Australia is particularly important in this connection because it has the least energy and water resources of any State. Its interest in uranium is still profound. South Australia needs priority consideration as a site for an Australian uranium processing centre and for the enrichment of our mined uranium. It should be an essential part of Australian uranium mining industry policy, and the Minister is strongly advised to study in depth the reports submitted to him by the South Australian Premier's Department. In my view, uranium is too important to this country not to develop it now to the fullest possible extent as a need for energy deficient countries and as a source of wealth and an insurance for Australia's future. 
One thing at least that I can be proud of is that I will be consistent. The Government must accept the full responsibility for establishing the industry under an authority that will ensure its development along responsible lines, with Australia as the centre for major processing activity. This responsibility goes far beyond the marketing ambitions of individual companies, whose immediate aim is to offer to the Government a medium for the yellow cake sales proposal. The Government cannot overlook this responsibility and, with the responsibility, the necessity for governmenttogovernment negotiations with purchasing countries in the first place on production and marketing polices for this unique energy resource. In conclusion, let me impress upon the Minister that the establishment of a uranium treatment centre in South Australia, particularly at Redcliff, will secure an industrial and employment base for South Australia and, in so doing, will extend the base of South Australian manufacturing industry. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
Are delays occurring in public examinations of bankrupts in the Bankruptcy District of New South Wales and the Australian Capital Territory due to lack of staff and the staff ceiling imposed this year and have delays of up to 6 months occurred during 1 976. 
-The Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  will recall that I have raised the question of his disastrous rail policies on repeated occasions. I raised it again 3 months ago. He will recall that last May the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  announced that an independent inquiry was to be held into the Adelaide-Crystal Brook standardisation project and into the Tasmanian railway system. The evidence then pointed to the fact that the Government was searching for any excuse to run away from its legal obligation to provide a national railway system. 
-He did. That belief has been reinforced by the Minister's recent actions. When announcing the appointment of the committee of inquiry on 20 May the Treasurer said that the Committee was to report on the matter within 2 months. I have asked repeatedly about it, and  4'A  months later the committee still has not been formed. In the Budget provision was made only for already committed works on the Adelaide-Crystal Brook project, and in his news release on the Budget, the Minister for Transport had this to say: 
For the time being expenditure would be restricted to these works, but depending on the outcome of the previously announced inquiry into this project, additional funds could be made available later in the financial year. 
No doubt the Minister's choice of the phrase later in the financial year' rather than 'later this year' was no accident. He certainly is not going to lay himself open to charges of indecent haste. That is pretty obvious. The Minister also failed to include in his statement that the previously announced inquiry he had referred to had not been set up, nor did he give any reasons for the delay. Subsequently, in reply to a question on 25 August, the Minister said that the delay resulted from difficulty in securing the services of people whom the Government wanted to appoint to the committee of inquiry. I find it impossible to believe that it would take 4 months to find competent people to appoint to the committee. To understand the real reasons for the Government's actions one has only to look at its record since taking office. It is clear that the Government uses committees of inquiry to cut back, delay or demolish programs of the previous Government. The Hay Committee is a classic example. It was instigated in the hope that it would find evidence of widespread waste and extravagance in expenditure on Aboriginal Affairs. The Committee found little evidence of it, as leaks to newspapers have suggested. Similarly, we have had the Bland Committee, the Medibank Review Committee and others, all used as instruments to disguise or justify Government cut-backs. 
The committee of inquiry into the Crystal Brook railway project has already pardy fulfilled its function, without even having been formed, by delaying progress for over 4 months. Not that delays on this project are anything new to this Government, the Government already has had over 20 years experience in that. It ought to be remembered that the original concept of the standardisation of Australian railway gauges was a vision of the Chifley Labor Government. It not only acted constructively towards its implementation but also laid down the foundationsthe factual and necessary data- by setting up what I understand was the first and only national inquiry into rail standardisation. That inquiry was headed by  Sir Harold  Clapp and the report was presented to this Parliament in 1945. The Chifley Labor Government went further when it entered into an agreement for the implementation of rail standardisation in South Australia. This agreement was signed in October 1 949. An article in the Adelaide  Advertiser  of 2 1 October 1949 had this to say about that agreement: 
The agreement is substantially the same as that drawn up under the previous joint Commonwealth-State arrangement, except that the financial provisions are changed  the estimated Commonwealth share is  17m to be spent over a minimum of 8 years. The agreement guarantees the conversion of most of the South Australian railway system to the standard 4 foot 8 inches gauge and the completion of North-South line. 
Five days later the  Advertiser  reported comments made by the then South Australian Tory Premier,  Sir Thomas  Playford, in these terms: 
The Government proposed to push ahead with the project in the near future, but that did not mean that all types of the work would be undertaken straight away. He could not see why an early start could not be made with earth works. 
That was in 1949. The project then was to commence within 12 months. The Liberal-Country Party Government had a splendid record from 1949 to 1972. Governments in South Australia, irrespective of their political colour, have pressed for the standardisation of the Adelaide- Port 
Pirie railway since 1949, yet Adelaide remains the last capital city still to be connected with the other capital cities by a standard gauge railway link. The Tory Federal Government was not persuaded to take any action on this matter until the late 1960s when it finally commissioned Maunsell and Partners to act as consulting engineers for an inquiry into this project. The Minister and I know all about that. He would not accept anything other than the Maunsell and Partners Report. The Minister said that on no fewer than 6 occasions. As I recall most vividly he claimed in this House that it was the only firm competent to undertake the survey. Is it not remarkable? We are now back to square one. We need another inquiry. 
I again challenge the Minister, and I have done so before, to deny that on 22 February this year the South Australian Minister for Transport called on him at his office in this building to discuss finance for the Adelaide-Crystal Brook rail project. At that stage the Minister was attempting to curtail the provision of $2.7m which had been committed for the standardisation project. The South Australian Minister received an unqualified assurance from the Commonwealth Minister that the project would proceed along the lines contained in the Maunsell report and the agreement ratified by both Parliaments. The Minister has remained silent ever since and I would appreciate a comment on that later. When he now delays for 4 months the formation of this committee it is more compulsive evidence that his real motives are to cripple the project. Not only are the Government's tactics in this matter dishonest and negligent, but they are also causing unnecessary problems for South Australia. State authorities are unsure whether they should keep their engineering teams planning the project or relocate them on other duties. The longer the Minister fiddles, the more problems he creates. 
Whilst the Government's handling of the Crystal Brook to Adelaide standardisation project deserves the strongest condemnation, its whole philosophy towards transport is shown in the Budget to be as regressive as it was 3 decades ago. The Government refuses to recognise that the problems facing road and rail systems in Australia are in fact caused by undercapitalisation. Australia's major highways are generally little better than sealed bullock tracks. The combination of heavy vehicles and antiquated roads results in high maintenance costs for our major highways as well as high road tolls. 
Australia's railway systems suffer a similar problem. Railway tracks are are often too steep, too winding, too light and therefore too slow and too uneconomic. How can the railways provide an adequate economic service with inadequate and in many cases worn out hardware? This Government's solution is to downgrade the railways by reducing capital expenditure and closing down lines. It is a simple philosophy and a very effective one. Finance for capital works on the Australian National Railway is $36. lm in this year's Budget, compared with $5 1.9m in the 1975-76 Budget. 
-Exactly. Although the Minister for Transport seems unaware of them, there are compelling reasons why the Federal Government must assume its responsibility for the railways. Only the Federal Government can provide the injection of capital needed to bring the State railways systems into the twentieth century. Only by allocating the capital outlays necessary can road and rail transport in Australia be brought up to date with the rest of the advanced world. The tragedy of the present policy is that future generations will pay heavily for the short-sighted economies and neglect of this and the preceding Tory governments. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1) In view of Australia's susceptibility to many types of natural disasters and the numerous Government and semiGovernment departments involved in coping with natural disasters, will the Government consider following the lead of the United Kingdom by placing the responsibility for natural national disasters under the authority of one Federal Minister. 
Has he received any representations on this matter from interested bodies. 
What Federal and State Government departments or authorities are involved in dealing with natural disasters. 
What action has the Government taken to ease administrative hitches and improve communications between these authorities. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) As New South Wales possibly proposes to withdraw from the Interstate Corporate Affairs Commission, does the Government propose to (a) re-introduce the Corporations and Securities Industry Bill and (b) introduce national legislation to regulate corporations as was proposed by the previous Government. 
Do the Associates of Stock Exchanges wish the Government to establish a National Corporations and Securities Industry Commission. 
How many representations have been received by the Government requesting re-introduction of the Corporations and Securities Industry Bill. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Australian National Railways conducted a survey of the existing Marree-Alice Springs railway line since November 1975: if so,what was the purpose of the survey and what results have been obtained. 
) If a survey has not yet been conducted is it proposed to conduct one soon. 
What is the expected useful life of this line with its present state of repair. 
Is the Government contemplating using this line for a further 10 years so that expenditure for the new TarcoolaAlice Springs line can be reduced in future Budgets. 
Has the attention of the Acting Treasurer been drawn to a recent intensive advertising campaign throughout this country promoting the sale of a certain class of insurance following an agreement between David Jones Pty Ltd and Occidental Life Assurance Co. ( Aust. ). a subsidiary of the same firm in California? The terms of the offer are both misleading and deceptive, particularly insofar as service charges and interest payments are concerned. Will the Acting Treasurer have this deal investigated immediately by the Insurance Commissioner to ensure that policy holders' rights are fully protected? Will he instruct the Insurance Commissioner to contact the Minister responsible for consumer affairs in South Australia? Will he ensure that the agreement between David Jones and Occidental is obtained and tabled in the Parliament? 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
Has the Government considered introduction of legislation at a national level on the South Australian model to regulate consumer credit transactions. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
As finance companies, in relation to their funding, are regulated under the Financial Corporations Act administered by the Treasurer, does the Government propose to introduce national legislation as has been done in the United States of America and the United Kingdom to regulate consumer credit transactions. 
I rise to oppose the measure. Is it any wonder? The coal levy collection since 21 August 1975 equalled $11 1.8m. The estimate for 1976-77 is $145m. The revised figure published in Budget Paper No. 4 is $1 12m. This is, in effect, a loss of $33m. This measure proposes to hand back, as a kickback if you like, to the Utah Development Company and Central Queensland Coal Associates $13m for the remainder of this year. For a full year the amount will be $15m. Is it any wonder that the Utah company can give a quarter of a million dollars to the opera company? Action taken by the former Minister for Minerals and Energy through sheer persistence, and against opposition, forced our export coal to world parity prices. This led obviously to windfall profits to the major companies. 
The case for this levy and the need for taxation measures, which are increasing the public return on company assets, is still sound. The arguments levelled against the levy all ignore this basic principle. It is claimed that the coal levy is a threat on 2 fronts- firstly, that it threatens the viability of existing producers and, secondly, that it threatens to deter the development of new projects. The argument is obviously false in all but marginal cases. However, let us assume that it is true. An adjustment in the value of the levy or a modification of the means of determining the levy could satisfy these claims, while still providing a return to the people in those areas where windfall gains are made. This Government does not contemplate such modification but wants to abolish it. 
Abolition of the coal duty can mean only one thing, that is, that this Government believes that Australia's natural resources exist for the benefit of a few wealthy magnates in New York, London or Bermuda and there is no better illustration of the need for a coal levy and the weakness of the argument of those who oppose it than Utah. As at 1 January 1974 the coal exported to Japan from Utah and Central Queensland Coal Associates mines received an average export price slightly in excess of $18 a tonne. Eighteen months later the price had risen to between $47 and $50 a tonne, an increase of over 260 per cent. They are no higher than the price paid by Japan for coal from either South Africa, Canada, the Soviet Union or the United States of America after taking into account the quality of coal and freight differentials. Utah's profits rose dramatically. From a record net profit of nearly $49m in 1974, it rose in 1975 to $ 101m. It is estimated that in the first 9 months of this current financial year it will have a net profit of $ 150m. It will exceed that of the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd this year. 
-They are the figures after tax. The honourable member should do his homework. Despite the level of equity of the Australian Mutual Provident Society in Utah, something like 20 per cent, the great increase in the value  of coal has raised Utah's share price to the point where the price of additional Australian equity is prohibitive. If we wanted to purchase a 50 per cent equity it would cost us $200m. 
Now what about the future developments? There are 4 major coal developments under study in Queensland and these include Norwich Park. The companies claim that two of their projects are unlikely to develop because of the levy, that it is difficult to meet capital debt repayments with the $6 per tonne levy. A moratorium on the levy during the early years of these projects would be one way of curing the problem. Thiess-Peabody-Mitsui has not sought a moratorium. It wants the levy completely wiped out. In June of this year the Queensland Government allowed Utah to raise the limits of coal exports on their leases from 300 million to 450 million tonnes. There is no doubt that the levy is not critical to the development of Norwich Park. It has a capital cost of $240m, lower because a proportion of the infrastructure is already established. Furthermore, Utah will have no difficulty obtaining sales contracts for Norwich Park as the coal is the highest quality of all Utah's mines. The case for taxation measures to protect the national interest is unanswerable in the case of Utah. Other coal developments involve higher costs. There is a valid case for some variation in the levy in the early years of a project. What can be said is that in times of recession the call for the opening of new mines is naturally lower. As soon as there is an upturn in the demand for steel and, in turn, coal, interest in new coal projects will be increased. In any case, the Government has the power under section 96 to relieve any excessive hardship being imposed on or felt by any company. 
The final discreditation of the case put by apologists of the large mining companies is their champion, Bjelke-Petersen of Queensland. Immediately the coal levy was imposed Queensland, New South Wales and Western Australia announced that they were preparing a court challenge to what they considered a punitive tax. Queensland dropped its plans for court action and last January Bjelke-Petersen demanded the transfer of coal export levy rights to the States. The levy would contribute almost 3 times the amount that the State now collects from royalties and freight charges. The protest evaporated with the change of government last December and the Premier of Western Australia and the then Premier of New South Wales were equally quick to support Queensland's aboutface. The Fraser Government's so-called federalism will make mining levies look even more attractive to the States in the future as a new source of income. The levy is one way in which a federal government can extract excessive profits. Increased royalties are a possible solution to the States ' financial problems. 
Recent variations in royalties in Canada warrant study. I was there when they were imposed. In July a new system of royalty payments for coal was introduced in Alberta, Canada's biggest coal-exporting province, and the payments are on a sliding scale. The aim is to take one-third of the total revenue where the total revenue sufficiently exceeds costs to provide a rate of return to the developer adequate to stimulate further development. On marginal projects the royalty falls to a minimum of 5 per cent but where revenues are high the Government could go as high as 50 per cent. At the high end of the scale, Government royalties go as high as $A5 to $A7 a ton. Past royalty was a flat 10c a ton. How does that sound? Typically Queensland. New policy also calls for equity participation by Albertans in new projects. Applicants for development permits will be forced to do detailed cost benefit analyses to show that their project is clearly beneficial to Canada. The Alberta royalty scheme is a backlash from the increased awareness of the value of nonrenewable natural resources and the duty of governments to understand that the mining of these resources is in the best interests of the community. The level of royalties is similar to the level of this particular levy. The Albertan environmental and equity conditions are far more vigorous than those imposed in Australia. The most interesting feature of the scheme is the structure of the formula for royalty payments. Royalties are roughly proportional to the square of the profitability of the company in question. This method of taxing producers is a suitable way of ensuring that development will occur while windfall gains are suitably and appropriately taxed. In Saskatchewan while I was there a provincial government devised a similar system to apply to uranium. 
These policy initiatives clearly show the current attitude of governments in comparable situations and are a further vindication of the action taken by the Labor Government. The notion of super-royalties that vary with profit levels is not unique in this country. Miners at Broken Hill have operated under the concept of a sliding scale of royalty payments for many years. 
Let us have a little debate about that. What was there about it that was misconceived in relation to iron ore and Broken Hill? The difficulties for development companies in assessing the risks involved in new projects in times of changing prices and production costs need not be incompatible with fair taxation methods. There is a trend in other parts of the world towards a taxation in harmony with the national interest of adequate returns from and rationalised expansion of the mining industry. If any case is to be made for a change in the Australian coal export levy, it is only to broaden its operations to better take into account the situation of individual companies. The income which governments receive from taxation and levies on mineral exploration should not be viewed only in the context of recouping a fair price for our resources. Of necessity, governments are obliged to do 3 things: firstly, to ensure adequate supervision; secondly, to ensure adequate environmental protection; and thirdly, to ensure that the country's future is protected. 
While endless debate rages around such questions as levels of foreign equity, taxation concessions and allowances, royalties, etc., might I suggest to the House that the most important facet which regrettably is being overlooked, particularly by national governments here and overseas, is the crucial need for governments to promote research and development into new techniques of mineral exploration and processing. With the rapid escalation in the depletion of the level of our natural resources, the reality which must be faced is that we will progressively be forced to derive many minerals from nonconventional sources or from very low grade deposits or, in the case of oil, from either secondary or tertiary recovery levels. This position with respect to some materials, if our consumption remains constant, will be faced within 10 years. I suppose no better example of this can be found in this country at the moment than the domestic oil situation. New technology required to exploit unorthodox sources will not be cheap. The need for research is urgent because the lead time in developing new techniques is between 10 and 20 years. The necessary research and development could and should be funded by a levy such as this. 
In all sincerity, I say to the Parliament: Unless funds are now allocated for this aspect, we, along with most of the West, face a severe shortage of materials and those that are available will be at steeply escalated prices. Areas where such research funds are vital are the exploration and exploitation of the seabed, deep buried mineral deposits, methods to process low grade and conventional ores, and reducing the energy requirement of current processes and the use of alternate materials. 
The abolition of this levy- the loss of millions of dollars in income- has come at a time when this Government should be investing the windfall gains of a few wealthy corporations into securing Australia's future mineral needs. To put the future of our natural resources further in the hands of corporations motivated only to maximise profits wherever they are found throughout the world and to minimise their payouts in terms of royalty payments is a total abrogation of government responsibility. I conclude by pointing out that mineral policies applicable to the 1950s and the 1960s are no longer suitable to the changed circumstances of today. I have much pleasure in opposing this measure. 
asked the Minister for National Resources, upon notice: 
1 ) Have studies conducted by the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation, on behalf of the Pipeline Authority, to collate information on the likely growth in Australia for natural gas and the sources of supply to meet this demand, as reported in the fifth annual report of the Corporation, been completed. 
Will the findings of the studies be made public; if so, when. 
What is the expected life of each of Australia's presently operating gas fields. 
What rate of growth in domestic consumption is estimated in determining these figures. 
Does the study take into consideration the question of future export of gas, apart from the North West Shelf. 
If so, what level of export is assumed for gas from the North West Shelf, and what is the basis for this assumption. 
What proportion of the known reserves of gas on the North West Shelf are expected to be required for domestic consumption. 
Between what years are these reserves expected to be used. 
Does the study consider the question of supplying North West Shelf gas to the eastern markets of Australia, and does it consider how the gas might be transported to these markets. 
asked the Minister for Business the Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
How does the Government propose to overcome conflicts between the Trade Practices Act and the proposed uniform consumer credit legislation based on the Molomby Report on Fair Consumer Credit Laws. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
Does the Government propose amending the Trade Practices Act to regulate harsh and unconscionable transactions. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
How does the Government propose to overcome conflicts between the Bills of Exchange Act and the proposed uniform consumer credit legislation based on the Molomby Report on Fair Consumer Credit Laws. 
I preface my question which is addressed to the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs by referring to the concessions made by the Government in this year's Budget to the mining industry and to the prospect that we could face a renewed mining boom in Australia. Is it a fact that we have no national corporations and securities legislation even though this matter has been the subject of 5 years investigation and 3500 pages of evidence have been taken? Is it also a fact that there is no prospect of uniformity in this field through the Interstate Corporate Affairs Commission given that only 37 per cent of Australian public companies are incorporated in the 3 Tory States? When can investors expect the Government to enact national legislation to ensure that the Australian capital market is run competently, honestly and in a way which provides a secure investment structure? 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What is the composition of the working party of insurance industry officials and officers of the Treasury set up by the Government to inquire into the natural disaster insurance scheme. 
Is it a fact that no officer from the State Government Insurance Office or Commission was appointed or seconded to the working party; if so, why. 
-In supporting the legislation I think I ought to traverse its history in some short form because I had a lot to do with it in 1973. The Insurance (Deposits) Act itself deals with insurance other than life assurance or State insurance within the confines of a State. The Act covers the fields of general insurance, fire, accident and motor vehicle insurance, and I suppose that its basic facet is that all insurers, including brokers, sending premiums overseas must lodge deposits with the Treasurer in the form of approved securities. Each company's deposit is wholly charged in favour of the owners of the policies that the company issues. The Treasurer may use the deposit to satisfy a final judgment obtained against the insurer in respect of a claim under a policy, and in the event of insolvency of the insurer the deposit must be applied towards settlement of the unpaid claim on the policy. However, regrettably the Act does not empower the Australian Government to inquire into the internal affairs of insurance companies or to intervene in disputes between policy owners and insurance companies. After all, the reason for legislating to supervise insurance is to protect policy owners from the insolvency of companies, and we have had a spate of that. The 1973 Act was structured to achieve that end. It requires companies to comply with mimimum standards of financial soundness. 
As I understand it, the Australian constitutional power extends not only to supervision, which is the purpose of the 1973 Act, but could also extend to regulatory powers and to control. For instance, the Marine Insurance Act regulates the terms of insurance contracts. One purpose of my long struggle has now been agreed to by the Tory Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  and I am grateful that in respect of insurance contracts at law many of the existing abuses will be obliterated. I have struggled without success for 5 years with both governments, and I will continue my struggle in respect of control. The United Kingdom legislation, for instance, goes part of the way in the sense that a company cannot direct what it will or will not invest in the first 5 years following its authorisation. That ensures that an inexperienced company does not invest its funds in a foolish investment, and if we had had that sort of provision in an Act prior to 1 969 we would not have had the proliferation of collapses to which this country was subject up until 1 973. In a number of European countries investment is strictly controlled for economic reasons, and that ought to be provided for in our Act. Insurance laws around the world are becoming more and more standardised. The industry might not like it, but that is a fact of life. Of necessity, governments are being forced to supervise, to regulate and to control the insurance industry. 
The cornerstone of the insurance law is the section prescribing solvency. I will not go into the 4 areas into which various countries in the world structure for solvency. I think that the Australian system has served a really good purpose. As I understand it, this legislation is to allow refunds of deposits made under the Act to companies which have already been granted authority to underwrite insurance in accordance with the Insurance Act 1973. As the requirements of the Act are far more strict than the old deposits system, there is in fact no need for companies with an authority either to lodge or maintain the deposit, as the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  said. However, I am pleased to note that deposits from companies not granted an authority to underwrite insurance can be used to pay off policy owners with claims against the company if such a company gets into financial difficulty. In these days of rapid changes in the value of money, legislation of the type contained in the Act rapidly becomes outdated and if it is to have any effect it must be updated annually. The only protection afforded under such legislation is when a company goes bankrupt, and frankly it has never been good enough. The whole purpose and the structure of the Insurance Act 1973 is to ensure that insurance companies do not get into financial difficulty which leads ultimately to liquidation or bankruptcy. 
The Insurance (Deposits) Act is rapidly being superseded by early warning mechanisms or the devices for surveillance contained in the Insurance Act 1973. This Bill, which the Opposition welcomes, is but another step towards the updating of the Insurance Act 1973. It ought to be acknowledged that the type of deposit provisions contained in that Act are rapidly being phased out and repealed in many overseas countries in favour of the early warning surveillance system. I sound this note of warning. There does not anywhere in the world seem to be any insurance legislation, no matter how strict, which can guarantee that there will be no failures whatsoever of insurance companies. The United 
States perhaps is the best example. It has perhaps the strictest regulatory legislation but there are still insurance company failures through mismanagement, fraud or other forms of manipulation and incompetence. 
I wish to take only a few minutes more on this issue to put a point constructively to the Attorney-General. It is a pity that the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  is not here. The one aspect of the insurance field today which is worrying me is the premium price cutting in fire and industrial insurance which is causing concern both in the United Kingdom and in the United States. Established and reputable companies  cannot or  will not compete, and that situation is occurring throughout Australia at the moment. It will lead inevitably to an escalation in the fire catastrophe rate of reinsurance on the international market. A premium pool is required by reinsurers to calculate a reasonable charge level, and so far as catastrophe insurance is concerned, if premiums are cut or are insufficient then the reinsurer has no option but to escalate charges to cover the excess risk or gap. Inevitably, this will mean that ultimately a greater charge will have to be borne by the policy holders. It ought to be realised that in the wash-up it will be the Australian companiesI repeat, the Australian companieswhich will suffer most from the price cutting war. The large overseas companies, mainly in the United Kingdom, have more than sufficient fat to survive the cold when it comes, and I am deeply concerned at the effect this price cutting will have on small Australian companies. Such companies will go to the wall, and in turn it will be the policy holders who will suffer most. That problem was indicated only last month by the General Manager of Q.B.E. Insurance Ltd. 
I warn the Minister and in turn warn the Commissioner that this matter ought to be thoroughly examined immediately. A major disaster results in a major loss, particularly when there is insufficient premium income to make up the deficiency. I have been warning people since 1969 of the dangers and the sufferings that they could face if an insurance company goes into liquidation or bankruptcy and cannot face up to its policy obligations. While I support this amendment, I warn the House and I advise policy holders throughout the length and breadth of this country that there is only one way to ensure maximum benefit and maximum coverage, and that is to ensure that legislation covering this important area is not only supervisory in structure but, equally importantly, contains provisions which are also regulatory and offer a constructive measure of control. This Act lacks it; the 
Insurance Act lacks it; and the Life Insurance Act lacks it. In so many cases insurance companies collapse through sheer incompetence or fraudulent manipulation. As I said earlier, I think it is  time that the  Insurance Commissioner in particular made a thorough immediate investigation into the price cutting war that is going on in the field of general insurance in this country at the moment. I support the amendment. 
asked the Minister for National Resources, upon notice: 
1 ) When will the report of the Working Party of the River Murray Commission be made public. 
Did he say in answer to a question on notice on 17 March 1 976 that he expected the report to be made public in the near future; if so, what has caused the long delay in releasing the report. 
What action does the Government intend to take to give effect to the recommendations of the report 
When will the Government introduce legislation to amend the River Murray Waters Agreement in accordance with the recommendations of the Working Party announced by him in answer to my question No. 113  (Hansard,  25 May 1976, page 2442). 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Are there any delays in cases coming before the High Court because there are insufficient judges to hear cases presently listed and the Full Court cannot sit in 2 divisions. 
-I draw the attention of the Attorney-General to my questions on notice relating to alleged uranium price fixing and action being taken under the United States antitrust laws. Is the Minister aware that subpoenas were lodged in the Supreme Court of New South Wales last Tuesday week? I am led to understand that requests for the collection of evidence of this nature for foreign tribunals would be regulated by the practices and procedures of relevant State courts. Has the Minister considered taking legislative action similar to that taken by the Canadian Government last September where it approved a regulation under the Atomic Energy Control Act to prevent removal from Canada of information relating to this matter? Can the Minister state what effects the action being taken under the United States anti-trust laws will have on his Government's uranium policies? Finally, can I get an answer to the questions that have been on the notice paper since 8 September? 
I only want to ask a couple of questions and I am not going to enter into the legalities of this matter. There are 2 issues involved about which I would like some explanation from the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott).  One is the question of extra-territorial immunity and the other is the question of exports. Can the Minister enlighten me? As I understand it, this Bill will give immunity to individuals and, perhaps, corporations in Australia. However, an individual getting off an aircraft in San Francisco is still wide open to being issued with a subpoena. 
I want to pay a tribute to the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor)  about the issue of uranium. We believe that a material such as this ought to be contracted for only through a government marketing authority. If we are going to give immunity within Australia to individuals and corporations we can do that totally only by setting up a government to government marketing arrangement. While supporting this legislation, I ask the Attorney-General in addition to impress upon the Government that if immunity and complete national sovereignty are to be given effect, then the real way to do so is to ensure that any marketing of uranium in the future, or any other material for that matter but particuarly uranium, is done on the basis of a government to government contract. 
I deplore the Government's attitude and tactics in relation to this important national and international issue. I say at once that in the matter of energy there are no soft options. It is an easy solution to take a popular position with certain pressure groups. One crucial factor which governments and politicians throughout the world have been forced to grapple with over this past decade is the stark reality that it is energy which dictates policies. Decisions are being hammered out not because they are compatible with the dogma of socialism or capitalism but because of sheer necessity and the realisation that there is a correlation between energy and the standard of living. A diminution of the one inevitably leads to a diminution of the other. With fossil fuels we have built up a civilisation and a technology which gives us food supplies, transportation, clothes and medicines. All these are based on the availability of fossil fuels. 
Let us be clear about the choices open to us in this debate on uranium. It is not a question of whether to mine uranium. It is a question of whether we have energy, a civilisation or, for many nations, a depressed standard of living. World energy consumption over the next 26 years and the sources of energy available to meet this need are critical questions in deciding the future of nuclear power. The Fox report points out that continued use of fossil fuels- coal, oil and natural gas- may influence the world's climate. The report states: 
The effect of CO, and dust which is a direct environmental consequence of fossil fuel combustion, should be debited against those energy sources. 
Some scientists have predicted that a glasshouse effect which may result from this form of pollution would be disastrous for the future of the world. We will have squandered on energy an invaluable source of raw materials, namely, coal and petrochemicals which should, if we are responsible, be kept for the production of drugs, plastics, fertilisers and durable materials which can be made only from these petrochemical raw materials. The changeover to uranium power will make it possible to extend the lifetime of fossil fuels and reserve these for uses for which they are unique. The report concludes that world resources of oil and natural gas may be depleted substantially by the end of this century and that renewable energy sources, such as solar energy, may not be of great significance in the next decade. That is a Fox committee recommendation. 
In Australia we are lucky. We have available great reserves of coal and supplies of natural gas so that at the present we have no need for nuclear energy ourselves. Regrettably, other countries are not so fortunately placed. The post-war energy policies of many nations were structured upon cheap imported oil and gas. The 1973 Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries oil price hike had a devastating economic impact. It forced a complete reappraisal of policies. Firstly, the situation exposed the vulnerability of many nations. Secondly, nations could again be subject to boycott. Any government would be extremely naive to assume that this will not happen again. I include this Government or any government. I say to people who ought to ponder on this matter that if Australia had been forced to face an embargo or cut-off at the end of 1973, as many other nations were, we could have faced, within 3 months, an unemployment figure of between 250 000 and 500 000. I ask honourable members to remember that 30 per cent of imported crude oil is heavy crude oil which is our employment base. We should ponder this situation. Thirdly, the world is faced with the certainty of a price hike in December this year by OPEC. I make the prognostication that if OPEC increases its oil price by between 12.5 per cent and 15 per cent we can say goodbye to any increase in the standard of living throughout the Western world. We should reflect on that. 
I ask: What has led to an escalation in nuclear power? That is a constructive question. Let us look at Japan. It imports 99.6 per cent of its crude oil. Its long term energy demand projections, despite efforts to diversify, show that it will continue to rely on imported crude oil. Japan's energy problem is a race against time. In fact, it is being forced to develop nuclear power. Its current share of nuclear power, compared with total electricity power, is 7 per cent. By 1985 it will be forced to increase that figure to 26 per cent. Italy has very little oil or gas. Its hydro-electricity situation is fully realised. Its economy was shattered in 1973. In 1974 its deficit had doubled, and 75 per cent of the deficit was caused because of the cost of imported crude oil. At the moment Italy is committed to 3 per cent nuclear power. It hopes to reach 40 per cent. This situation is supported by most parties in Italy. 
Spain is in exactly the same position. It has a commitment to 22 000 megawatts by 1988. If we look at West Germany we see that its commitment is 50 000 megawatts while the United Kingdom has a commitment of 15 000 megawatts. We find that the position is the same in the United States. In 3 years its importation of crude oil has increased from 29 per cent to 44 per cent and that figure will increase to 50 per cent this year. Despite what the recently elected  President  may say, he may well need to increase nuclear capacity to at least 9 per cent. Russia is a country which has often been cited in this House. Some people will have to make some odd class positions on this matter. Russia is credited with selfsufficiency in hydro-carbons. It has half the Saudi Arabian reserves of oil and double the United States' reserves. However, its policy is to conserve oil and gas for industrial feedstock and petrochemicals. It will develop nuclear power and coal and hydropower. The reason is that Russian oil output is falling. From 1976 to 1980 Russia will remain East Europe's main oil supplier. The rate of increase will not be as high as it was between 1971 and 1975. East Europe's oil will have to come from the Middle East or from Africa. 
Honourable members may have noted in the newspaper recently that Algeria and Iran have cut off any further exports of gas. That is important for the American market and for many other markets. Iran has reserves for 30 years if the supply is escalated. If it husbanded well it has reserves for 50 years. Any country which is relying on a long term supply as far as Iran is concerned ought to start thinking. In Russia at the moment current nuclear power supplies 1 per cent of the total electric power. It is estimated that by the end of this century that amount will rise from 6 million kilowatts to 100 million kilowatts. Canada is facing the same dilemma and, equally, so is France. I tum to a question which has been raised. I think we should examine the Fox report on the matter. It appears that the Fox Committee report envisages competition between coal and nuclear power in meeting world energy needs as though one type of power or the other could meet world demands. In other words, new coal fired stations rather than increased nuclear capacity could be built to cope with the increased demand for electricity, at least until other sources of energy are fully developed. However, it does not investigate in depth the problems associated with such a course of action. It devotes only 3 pages to the environmental hazards of non-nuclear energy resources and concludes that the environmental hazards of fossil fuel use are severe, particularly in the case of coal. It does not consider in depth the economic or political problems in opting for coal. We ought to look at that aspect. 
Chapter 9 investigates the benefits and costs of exporting and not exporting Australian uranium. It goes so far as to advocate:  . . exports of steaming coal by Australia could minimise any fuel shortage which would otherwise arise if other countries decide to reduce their reliance on nuclear power below present expectations. 
The concept of Australia becoming the quarry of the world is thus promoted by the report. Such a policy is not only unlikely to be acceptable to the people of Australia but also ought to have been investigated by the commissioners as it has many pitfalls. Hydrocarbons have important uses besides electrical energy generation. The uses for hydrocarbons are of such importance that governments are obliged to reserve large quantities of these materials. Australia should not be an exception. Also the report overlooks the problems in making coal the sole electrical energy generation source. Coal is not so universal that a country-by-country breakdown of resources does not reveal significant differences. France has about 10 times less usable coal than Britain, Britain has 10 times less than West Germany and West Germany has 20 times less than the United States. Not surprisingly, much of the good black coal on or near the surface has already been exploited, so the remaining reserves are often deep underground or unproven. 
Now let us look at the cost of coal as a raw material. At one extreme is the Australian situation, where power stations' internal cost of Victorian brown coal is between $1 and $2 per tonne. The cost of New South Wales black coal is about $6 to $9 per tonne. The price per tonne f.o.b. of New South Wales coal for Japanese power stations rises to $25 to $35. Since Europe is at the other end of the price scale, the good fields of Germany, Britain and France average US$50 per tonne. Production costs in the poorer fields of Europe are roughly twice as high. Australians need to consider the ramifications of a policy of steaming coal exports replacing uranium exports. Whereas by 1985 Australia will easily be able to export 15 000 tonnes of uranium oxide a year, the equivalent in black steaming coal amounts to approximately 200 million tonnes a year. We ought to remember that in 1976 exports of steaming black coal will amount to 3.5 million tonnes. 
Australia is already suffering from the environmental effects of a fossil-powered economy. It is ironic that the development of coal loading facilities, coal dumps and so on is resisted strenuously by conservationists throughout the country, yet such an infrastructure must become commonplace in a world relying completely on coal for electricity generation. The point was put rather lucidly by the  Chairman  of the Consolidated Edison Company of New York Inc. when I was there. He said: 
I do not want to suggest that the U.S. is facing a choice between nuclear fuel and coal. If the U.S. is to achieve a capability for energy independence at any time during the remainder of this century we will require vastly increased contributions from both. 
In my view we ought not hide ourselves in our little cocoons of fear of social change, of selfsatisfied ignorance, and evade our national and international responsibility. Our increase in consumption is outstripping population. Our productivity in the supply of energy is lagging behind our burgeoning growth in energy demand, and improvements in efficiency are becoming more fractional and more costly. 
I say to the trade union movement- there are some regrettably who take almost a Luddite attitude towards this matter- that the Australian trade union movement has a very constructive role to play. Many miners throughout the world have suffered because of inadequate and inappropriate health standards in mining operations. Trade unions have a role to play. They can play it effectively, efficiently and successfully. Another point I want to make concerns the conservation movement. I do not think that fission power is anything more than an interim source of energy. I hope that solar energy, and I trust that fusion energy, will be able to meet the world 's demands by the end of this century. One thing that uranium can give us is a source of income so that we can put money into those areas if we want to replace fission power by the end of this century. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the unsatisfactory practices of some motor vehicle insurers which were highlighted in the Third Annual Report of the Consumer Affairs Bureau of the Australian Capital Territory. 
If so, will he publish the names of the insurance companies involved and will he release case studies of these dealings, so that the public can be protected from such unsavoury practices. 
-As a member of the sub-committee of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence that drew up the interim report let me say that the figures in the report were figures from the Department of the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar).  These are the figures that relate to the period in which the Government has been in office. I think that this is an explanation that the House and the people ought to understand. 

asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Have discussions been held with the States concerning the recommendations of the Trade Practices Review Committee that restrictive covenants over land should be regulated. 
Will the proposed legislation to regulate restrictive covenants affect in any way State or local government regulation of town planning and building requirements. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the interdepartmental committee which was set up to study the 4th report of the Royal Commission on Petroleum reported to him. 
If so, when will the Commission's recommendations be implemented by the Government. 
If not, when is the committee expected to complete its deliberations. 
Is the Royal Commission now preparing its final report. 
Did the Commission indicate in paragraph IS of the summary to its 4th report that the problems posed by transfer prices would be dealt with if the work of the Commission were to be extended by the Government. 
If so, did the Government extend the work of the Commission; if not, does this indicate that the Government is not concerned with this question in spite of the fact that all systems of petroleum administration in other countries, including New Zealand, have a department or agency which monitors transfer price. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
Does the Government propose to introduce legislation to regulate wholesale financing transactions, and more particularly, to recognise agreements between dealers and finance companies. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Does the Government propose to introduce legislation to rationalise the old maintenance and married women's property legislation in force in the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory, and to consolidate it in the Family Law An. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Is any review contemplated of the Married Women's Property Act 1 898 (N.S.W.) which is still in force in the Australian Capital Territory and has only been subject to minor amendments. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
1 ) Is any legislation proposed to amend the Secret Commissions Act to ensure that no activity similar to that engaged in by the Lockheed Corporation occurs in Australia. 
Is it proposed to introduce uniform Commonwealth and State legislation regulating and prohibiting bribes and secret commissions such as occurred in the Lockheed case. 
I seek leave to make a short statement. 
-I would like to endorse the remarks of the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford).  Subsequent to the setting up of the initial working party I found regrettably that State government insurance offices were not represented on that body. I think that was a deplorable omission on the part of the then Government and Treasurer. I make the plea that the State government insurance commissions have a large slice of the insurance market. There is no doubt at all that because of their contribution, responsibilities and knowledge in this area it is important that they ought to be listened to and that they ought to be heard. I am asking the 
Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  to ensure that representatives from the State government insurance commissions are included in the technical working party. In my view there is no question at all that the area of natural disaster insurance is a very technical one. So too is the question of crop insurance. But I agree that the latter area ought to be kept separate from the issue before the Parliament at the moment. 
-In relation to the Foreign Proceedings (Prohibition of Certain Evidence) Amendment Bill reference was made by the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  and the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  to it being a matter of urgency and emergency. I question that. Let me say at once to the honourable member for St George that the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  is to be congratulated because the amendments which the Attorney-General has proposed in this legislation were pointed out quite forcibly to the House when the initial Bill was dealt with on 18 November. Equally, I note that the Attorney-General in his second reading speech on this Bill stated: 
The Government has concluded moreover that the Parliament should be able to disallow an order made by the Attorney-General in the same way as it would be able to act if the orders were made by regulation. 
I commend the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam)  who raised this matter on 18 November. The only factor which is remiss is that the Attorney-General at that time was not prepared to accept either suggestion. In relation to this being emergency legislation, I placed on the notice paper, as far back as 8 September, a question relating to uranium cartels in 7 parts. I shall cite 3 of those points. They are: 
1) Is the World Uranium Producers' Cartel, which was formed on the initiative of the Rio Tinto Zinc Corporation (RTZ), still in existence following the withdrawal of this company from the cartel earlier this year. 
5 ) Does the current United States of America inquiry into alleged uranium price-fixing or other breaches of the United States anti-trust laws relate to the activities of these organisations; if so, which organisations? 
If not, what is the basis for charges which have been made in the United States against Australian uranium companies for alleged price-fixing. 
On 9 November I put another question containing a number of parts on the notice paper. It is question No. 1507. The question is directed to the Minister for National Resources  (Mr Anthony).  I asked: 
Have any companies made representations to the Government to pass legislation to validate uranium price-fixing agreements which would otherwise contravene (a) the Trade Practices Act, (b) Article 83 of the Chaner of the European Economic Community and (c) United States of America anti-trust laws; if so, which companies. 
I did not know what the emergency legislation was but I suggest to the Attorney-General that he had more than advanced knowledge of what would happen. As a matter of fact, in the week leading up to 18 November I attempted every day of the sitting to ask a question without notice of the Attorney-General. Unfortunately, the only day on which I had an opportunity was 18 November. This is the question I asked: 
I draw the attention of the Attorney-General to my questions on notice relating to alleged uranium price-fixing and action being taken under the United States anti-trust laws. Is the Minister aware that subpoenas were lodged in the Supreme Court of New South Wales last Tuesday week? I am led to understand that requests for the collection of evidence of this nature for foreign tribunals would be regulated by the practices and procedures of relevant State courts. Has the Minister considered taking legislative action similar to that taken by the Canadian Government last September where it approved a regulation under the Atomic Energy Control Act to prevent removal from Canada of information relating to this matter? Can the Minister state what effects the action being taken under the United States anti-trust laws will have on his Government's uranium policies? Finally, can I get an answer to the questions that have been on the notice paper since 8 September? 
The 2 preceding questions to which I referred are still not answered. I assume that because of the passage of this legislation they will become largely irrelevant. But I want to deal with the question of price validation because I believe that that was the signal to the Attorney-General that he ought to do something about it. I will deal with that later. The purpose of this legislation is to give some immunity to directors, public officials and companies. As I have pointed out before, we should extend that coverage as this legislation will give immunity only within Australia. That is quite apart from the principle involved in the legislation and the question of national sovereignty. I do not want to canvass at length the excellent speech made by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith, but I suggest to the Attorney-General not only that people should peruse the statement made by the Canadian Minister for Mines last September but also that they should take the trouble to read the background paper to that statement, which is headed 'Background Paper on the Canadian Uranium Industry's Activities in the International Uranium Market'. That is important if one is to understand the necessity for this piece of legislation in the international context. 
The other matter I want to raise- I have raised it before, but I have not had an answer from the Attorney-General- is that the question that faces the Government on this issue is not so much the passage of this legislation, important as that is, but that, if this legislation is to maximise the immunity to directors, public officials or companies, the only effective and real way to accomplish that is through a government marketing authority. At the moment we trust that this legislation will give these people and these companies immunity within Australia; but, as I have said before in the House, any individual who gets off a plane in San Francisco and is issued with a subpoena is bound by it. I well recall that at the height of the uranium debate in 1973 it was the Labor Government's policy that uranium ought to be marketed through a government marketing authority. That was repugnant to the then Opposition and it was repugnant to the uranium producers, but I noted in the Press recently that the uranium producers have changed their tack on this matter now. They would welcome a government marketing authority for no other reason than that it would give them the blanket immunity that they want. 
I support the legislation and equally I support the amendment. Again I impress upon the Attorney-General and the Government the need to establish as quickly as possible a government marketing authority, particularly for uranium, not only to protect the people or companies which the Government seeks to protect under this legislation but, above all, to allow for an orderly marketing of uranium and to ensure that any returns from the marketing of uranium will be maximised in the best interests of the people. I support the legislation. 
I rise to support the amendment. I want to draw the attention of the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  to the question of what, I suppose, could be termed the validation of uranium prices. This matter is crucial to this legislation, particularly if directors and public officials and companies are to be extended immunity from the claim made that persons who are not United States nationals or residents or persons carrying on a business in the United States, are subject to those laws by reason only of some economic effect of their conduct. I put 2 simple questions to the Attorney. Does he agree that the one way in which blanket immunity can be extended to those people is through a government marketing authority? He would have to agree with that, as it would circumvent United States law. I turn to the second question. I get very annoyed with people who have hangups about cliches. He should do a little more homework and not merely say that the Opposition 's policy is socialistic. The AttorneyGeneral should have taken a little more trouble to try to understand our policy. I raised this matter earlier. On 10 November an article appeared in the  Australian Financial Review,  which stated: 
Potential Australian uranium producers are lobbying the Federal Government to move to frustrate the US Administration's attempts to ensure a free international market for uranium. 
I assume from the remarks of the AttorneyGeneral that he believes that  Mr Mackay  is a socialist. No doubt  Mr Mackay  will be pleased to hear that. The article continues: 
The managing director of EZ . . .  Mr G.  A. Mackay, has written to the Minister for National Resources .. . raising the possibility of an Australian uranium marketing authority supervised by the government, a move which would effectively protect local uranium producers from US anti-trust moves. 
It states further: 
The U.S. Administration is anxious to avoid the formation of producer cartels that can fix prices and market shares for uranium on an OPEC model. 
It also states: 
However,  Mr Mackay  's letter to  Mr Anthony  provides an answer to . . . Jacobi 's question. 
The letter alerts  Mr Anthony- 
It is a pity he did not read that on 10 November- to the U.S. Justice Department's investigation of uranium producers and he also recommends that the marketing be undertaken by a government backed agency which would help protect Australian companies from U.S. laws. 
Whether the cliche is nationalisation or socialism, it is obvious that the uranium producers in Australia regard the formulation of a national policy as sound, and I continue to press it. If the Government wants maximum blanket protection given to companies in the resources sector of this country, the way in which we can afford them the immunity that they deserve is by establishing a government marketing authority. I again ask the Attorney-General to refer this matter back to his Cabinet colleagues for serious consideration. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Is any review likely of the legislation relating to wills in the Northern Territory and Australian Capital Territory by introducing legislation relating to formal validity of wills and adoption of the international will. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Is any review of the law relating to personal property likely insofar as it applies in the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
When are the recommendations of the A.C.T. Law  Reform  Commission on procedure in Courts of Petty Sessions likely to be implemented. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
1 ) When does the Government propose to introduce legislation based upon the Manning Committee Report on the Bills of Exchange Act which reported in 1964. 
Will the legislation take into account Part V of the Canadian Bills of Exchange Act 1970 which makes provision for consumer bills and notes and which allows for defences to be raised by a purchaser as if an action had been brought by a seller. 
Is the Credit Laws Committee of the Standing Committee of Attorneys-General considering this Canadian legislation as part of its consideration of the relationship between the Bills of Exchange Act and the proposed uniform consumer credit legislation  (Hansard,  3 November 1976, page 2328). 
What bodies and institutions are being consulted in connection with the implementation of the Manning Committee Report. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Does the Government propose to introduce legislation to implement any of the recommendations of the Tariff Board, as it then was, contained in its report on motion picture films and television programs. 
Does the Government propose to introduce legislation to regulate the present restrictive agreements existing in the film industry in Australia, and more particularly: 
legislation to break ties between distribution companies and motion picture exhibition chains, such as that between Cinema International Corporation Pry Ltd and the Greater Union Organisation, and those between Hoyts Theatres Ltd and 20th Century Fox Film Corporation, United Artists and Columbia Pictures, 
b ) legislation guaranteeing access to first release films to independent and small exhibitors and 
legislation to establish a marketing board to distribute all imported films so that independent country theatres and city exhibitors will be able to obtain films on favourable terms, available only to the large exhibitors such as the Greater Union Organisation, Hoyts Theatres and Village Theatres. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs upon notice: 
With reference to the interim report from the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence on its inquiry into the Lebanon Crisis, and the quoted figure of 1835 
Lebanese arrivals during the nine months ended 30 September 1976, were the figures, as quoted by the Committee, correct. 
Were they the latest figures that he had provided to the Committee. 
Is it a fact that Lebanese migration of 1496 in 1975 was about half the pre-war figures of 3 1 78 arrivals in 1 974. 
4 ) Is it also a fact that the 1 976 figures of actual arrivals is unlikely to exceed the pre-war figures quoted in part (3). 
Are figures of arrivals always substantially lower than visas issued and, therefore, figures of visas issued by him are not a clear indication of the true picture. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
1 ) What was (a) the cost of each presentation by the Canberra Theatre Trust, either alone or in association with others and (b) the gross ticket revenue in respect of each of those presentations during the last 3 years. 
Did the Canberra Theatre Trust give away 600 free tickets to the opening of  Mr Max  Wall's show during the 1976 Canberra Week, and does the Canberra Theatre only seat 1200 people. 
Are any officers of his Department on the board or committee of any organisations in receipt of funds from the Department for cultural activities, such as music, opera and drama. 
If so, what are the names of these officers. 
Are any of these officers involved in the allocations of these funds. 
If so, is it considered that any conflict of interest could arise in these circumstances, and are any steps being taken to avert any such conflict of interest. 
How many free tickets have been given away by the Canberra Theatre Trust for each of its presentations, alone or in association with others, during the last 5 years. 
What are the names of the recipients of these free tickets, and upon what criteria are they selected. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the States of Queensland and New South Wales advise the meeting of the Standing Committee of AttorneysGeneral in Brisbane, held during the week ended 1 5 October 1976, that they proposed to withdraw from the Credit Laws Committee established by the Standing Committee. 
If so, how will uniformity be achieved in the proposed uniform consumer credit laws. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
When will the Government be introducing legislation to give effect to its election policy of removing the discretion conferred on the Minister relating to mergers under subsection 90 (9) of the Trade Practices Act, the elimination of which has been recommended in paragraph 8.50  et al  of the Swanson Committee Report. 
What notices have been issued by him under subsection 90 (9) of the Trade Practices Act since 1 1 November 1975. 
If any notices have been issued under subsection 90 (9) since 1 1 November 1975, when was each notice issued, and what are the names of all parties who were the subject of such notices. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Has Australia or any Australian State any treaty or arrangements with the United States of America or any State in the United States for the services of (a) criminal process and (b) subpoenas upon Australian companies or officers thereof. 
asked the Minister for National Resources, upon notice: 
Is the world uranium producers' cartel, which was formed on the initiative of the Rio Tinto Zinc Corporation (RTZ), still in existence following the withdrawal of this company from the cartel earlier this year. 
Is the Uranium Institute, another group formed on the initiative of RTZ, still in existence; if so, does the Institute's charter specifically exclude price negotiations. 
Which Australian companies are, or have been, members of these groups. 
Are any Australian rnining companies members of any other local or international uranium producers' associations; if so, what are these associations, and what is their main function. 
Does the current United States of America inquiry into alleged uranium price fixing or other breaches of United States anti-trust laws relate to the activities of these organisations; if so, which organisations. 
If not, what is the basis for charges which have been made in the United States against Australian uranium companies for alleged price fixing. 
What marketing arrangements exist for the sale of uranium in (a) the United States, (b) the United Kingdom, (c) South Africa and (d) the rest of the world. 
asked the Minister for National Resources, upon notice: 
Has the Solicitor-General advised the Government that it should not hand over control of offshore submerged lands to the States. 
Have any States objected to the return to State sovereignty of offshore submerged lands; if so, what States. 
How many companies or individuals made suggestions or representations to the Government in favour of continued Commonwealth control over offshore submerged lands. 
asked the Minister for National Resources, upon notice: 
Have any companies made representations to the Government to pass legislation to validate uranium price fixing agreements which could otherwise contravene: 
the Trade Practices Act; 
Article 85 of the Charter of the European Economic Community; and 
United States of America anti-trust laws; if so, which companies. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
Have negotiations been taking place between officers of the Australian Government and the Government of the United States of America with a view to effecting a treaty of mutual co-operation relating to trade practices and anti-trust activities. 
If so, have these negotiations been terminated by the Australian Government following passage of the Foreign Proceedings (Prohibition of Certain Evidence) Act 
Have any notes of protest been received from the United States Department of State by the Australian Government following the passage of that Act 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Has the Law Reform Commission of the Australian Capital Territory reported on (a) Imperial Acts in force in the Australian Capital Territory, (b) New South Wales Acts in force in the Australian Capital Territory, (c) the law of real property in the Australian Capital Territory, (d) the property and affairs of mentally infirm persons in the Australian Capital Territory, and (e) the law of landlord and tenant in the Australian Capital Territory. 
If so, is it proposed to introduce legislation to implement either wholly or in part the recommendations contained in these reports. If so, when. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Did he say on 19 September 1976, at a meeting of the Liberal Party National Council, that the decision of the Victorian Government to regulate the price of packaged beer sold by discounters seemed to be against the spirit of the Trade Practices Act. 
) Did he also state at that meeting that the philosophy of the Party and its attitude to restrictive trade practices had shown that it was not in favour of retail price arrangements wherever they may be; if so, has he taken any action to have the Trade Practices Act amended so that the States can be prevented from enacting legislation maintaining the price of packaged beer at certain prices. 
What is the reason for the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs saying that it is not appropriate to debate the actions of a State Government in regulating beer prices in answer to question No. 1 159  (Hansard]  17 November 1976, page 2835). 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in the Arts, upon notice: 
1 ) As the Government provides funds to the Australian Elizabethan Theatre Trust, Australian Opera and the Australian Ballet, what account and reports are made by these bodies in respect of the use of these funds to the Government. 
How have the funds granted been utilised in the last 5 years, when isolated from funds from other sources such as donations and subscriptions. 
Is any account given by these Companies to the Government of free tickets given away and the names of the persons in receipt of these tickets. 
Are free tickets given to those, such as pensioners and children, who may not otherwise be able to afford to attend presentations by these bodies. 
What funds have been granted by the Government to the Australian Film Institute, based in Melbourne, during the last 5 years, and for what purposes have these grants been made. 
Is it a fact that employees, agents and persons otherwise connected with the Australian Film Institute have used theatres under its control which are in receipt of operating subsidies from the Australian Government for the purpose of presentation of foreign films which are beneficially owned by those persons. 
Have funds granted to the Australian Film Institute been granted for the production, presentation and promotion of Australian films. 
How have these funds been utilised during the last 5 years, and upon what terms have these funds been granted. 
What has been the degree of commercial success of films financed by the funds granted by the Government to the Australian Film Institute. 
10) What films have received financial assistance from the Government, either directly or indirectly, in the last 5 years, and what were the terms of the provision of these funds. 
What moneys have been lent by the Government, directly and indirectly, for film production in the last 5 years, and what moneys have been repaid to date. 
Who has received the proceeds of film box office successes which have been produced in Australia and what was the amount received by (a) the producers, (b) the directors, (c) the actors, (d) the distributors and (e) the exhibitors. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Will he set up a Royal Commission to investigate the cost of steel production in Australia in view of the inability of Australia's only steel producer, Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd to contain its production costs, as is evidenced by submissions it has made to the Prices Justification Tribunal and the Industries Assistance Commission. 
) Has the price of steel in Australia increased at a greater rate than for other industrialised countries, and is this adversely affecting the price of consumer products within Australia as well as the prices of our exported manufactured goods. 
Can he say whether BHP has been increasing its domestic steel prices in order to be able to sell steel on world markets at a substantial discount. 
Will he also authorise an inquiry into the accounting procedures employed by BHP to ascertain whether procedures are being used to disguise the fact that Australian users of BHP steel are subsidising BHP's exports of steel, and whether BHP is asking public assistance to maintain its steel operations so that the company can divert its funds into new investment in the rnining industry. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
1 ) Can he say whether the Council of the Law Institute of Victoria has called for repeal of laws of Victoria allowing persons to be charged with vagrancy and consorting. 
Is consorting still an offence under section 56 of the Northern Territory Police and Police Offences Ordinance. 
Are both vagrancy and consorting offences under the Australian Capital Territory Police Offences Ordinance. 
Is it proposed to review the present police offences legislation in the Northern Territory and Australian Capital Territory with a view to modernising it and removing such terms as 'rogues and vagabonds' and offences such as vagrancy and consorting. 
It is proposed to introduce either wholly or in part the recommendations of the Report of the Working Party on Territorial Criminal Law so as to replace (a) the South Australian Criminal Law Consolidation Act which still applies in the Northern Territory and (b) the New South Wales Crimes Act which still applies in the Australian Capital Territory. If so, when. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
What are the names of defendants to prosecutions instituted for breaches of Part V of the Trade Practices Act (a) before 11 November 1975, (b) between 11 November 1975 and 12 December 1975 and (c) since 12 December 1 975, and in respect of what sections have such proceedings been brought 
When was each of these prosecutions commenced. 
What has been the result of each of these prosecutions by way of (a) pecuniary or (b) other penalty. 
What are the names of all persons whom the Trade Practices Commission has recommended to the Minister to be prosecuted for breaches of Part V of the Trade Practices Act (a) before 11 November 1975, (b) between 11 November and 12 December 1975 and (c) since 12 December 1975, and in respect of what sections have such prosecutions been recommended. 
What are the names of all persons whom the Trade Practices Commission has recommended be prosecuted under Part V of the Trade Practices Act where the Minister has declined to adopt such recommendations. 
What are the reasons why each of these suggested prosecutions have not been proceeded with, and under which sections of the Act would the prosecutions have been brought. 
Have any representations been made to the Minister by any of the parties who could have been prosecuted for breaches of Part V of the Trade Practices Act to avert such prosecutions. If so, who have made such representations. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it considered, as reported in the  West Australian  of 29 November 1976, that it will be easier to detect corporate crime when new national legislation is introduced to regulate companies and the securities industry. 
What proposals does the Government have for eliminating corporate crime as distinct from detection of the same, and when will these be announced in the Parliament. 
Will these proposals broaden the present offences under State and Territory laws and remove the evidentiary problems associated with proof of corporate crime; if so, in what way. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
With reference to an interview given by the Queensland Minister for Justice on the ABC radio program AM on 22 November 1976, following his return from a visit to London where he apparently had discussions with British officials on constitutional matters, has the AttorneyGeneral's attention been drawn to the statement by the Minister for Justice, during the course of that interview, that his visit to London would be most significant to all Queenslanders and possibly to all Australians. 
Have the Queensland and British Governments informed the Australian Government of the nature of the discussions that took place. 
Is he able to inform the House of the nature of those discussions. 
Does the Government agree with the Statement made by the British Government as long ago as 1908 when it stated that His Majesty's Government are pledged to the view that, so far as the relations of Australia with foreign Nations are concerned, the Government of the Commonwealth alone can speak, and that for everything affecting external communities the Government of the Commonwealth alone are responsible to the Crown. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it a fact, as reported in the  Canberra Times  on 4 December 1976, that the Government is considering selective tariff cuts without obtaining the advice of the Industries Assistance Commission, as required by sub-section 23 (3) of the  Industries Assistance Commission Act  1 973. 
If so, on what grounds does the Government intend to justify conduct that invokes a breach of the law, particularly in the light of the remarks made by  Mr Justice  Fox in the first case involving the Black Mountain Tower, 1 ACTR43. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) Did he state, in reply to my question without notice on 25 August 1976, that a working party on national disaster insurance had recently reported to the Government and that he would give this matter expeditious handling. 
) If so, has the Government yet considered this report; if not, why not. 
In view of the high priority which he said would be given to this matter, what has caused the long delay in considering the report. 
Can he now say when the Government will table the report and announce the action it will take to set up a disaster insurance scheme. 
When will legislation be introduced into Parliament to set up such a scheme. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) With reference to the answer to my Question No. 1209  (Hansard,  14 October 1976, page 1932), did he unequivocally deny that the Australian National Railways had conducted, or would conduct, a survey of the existing Marree-Alice Springs railway line. 
If so, is it a fact that, only1 week after his answer appeared in  Hansard,  the Commissioner of the Australian National Railways,  Mr K..  Smith, was reported in the  Adelaide Advertiser  as having said that a survey was being undertaken on the Central Australian railways system. 
As the Commissioner has clearly contradicted his answer, does this indicate that he is unaware of what is occurring within his own Department, or does it indicate that he has misled the Parliament. 
I support the 4 Bills before the House. But I point out to the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  that I think the singular difference between his Tory Government and the previous Labor government is that his Government has no scruples. It prostituted the Constitution and debased the Conventions. I am rather pleased, but I am also amazed, that a Tory government for once has had a change of heart in the area of reform, rather than adhering to its oft-quoted political dictum that it believes in reform provided it changes nothing. It is rather pleasing to know that at last we have the chance for constitutional reform. We will again give the people the opportunity to face up to their constitutional responsibilities rather than do what governments and people of this country in fact have done since federation, that is, to rely upon the High Court for any meaningful constitutional change by way of High Court interpretation rather than changing the Constitution by way of referendum. 
As I said earlier, I am pleased with the measure that is before the Parliament. But obviously one can be very cynical- I am, for oneabout the motives of this Government, particularly when one canvasses its record over the past half decade on either national or constitutional issues. I have spoken twice in this House on the Constitution Alteration (Simultaneous Elections) Bill 1976. I do not intend to discuss that again or the related issues because they have been brilliantly covered by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen). 
This afternoon I want to traverse the matter of casual Senate vacancies. I had the honour of seconding a motion moved by the New South Wales Attorney-General,  Mr Walker  at the Australian Constitutional Convention in Hobart. The morion read as follows: 
That this Convention affirms the principle that a casual vacancy in the Senate, should, in order to maintain the principle of proportional representation and the wishes of the people of the State at the relevant Senate election, be filled by a member of the same political party as the senator whose vacancy is to be filled. 
Why is this particular amendment necessary? I believe it is necessary simply because some politicians, certain governments, had considered manipulation and expediency as being the tools of trade for political office. The clear intent of this constitutional amendment bluntly stated is to proscribe what scheming politicians and machinating governments cannot do and to prescribe what they ought and must do. 
I turn now to the question of casual vacancies. We are not dealing with a matter of constitutional law. We are ratifying what in effect is a conventional practice. It is in both these areas that I believe the Tory Government opposite stands indicted and condemned because it abused both convention and practice, that is if one refers to them as such. We ought to traverse the history of this matter. Clearly the function of filling a casual vacancy in the Senate, as was caused by  Senator Murphy  as he then was or  Senator Milliner,  is committed to the Houses of Parliament of the State the senator represents or, if the Parliament is not in session, to the Government of that State. Section IS is explicit. It places no limits upon the choice which is open to the Houses or the Government. Let me refer to the casual vacancy concerning ex-Senator Murphy. Conscious of unrestricted power granted by section 15 the then New South Wales Premier Lewis announced he would choose a senator who was not a member of the Australian Labor Party. The choice was within the terms of section 15 and such a choice could not be set aside as being  ultra vires.  But the question whether the Houses of Parliament in New South Wales had acted properly or within the spirit of the Constitution as opposed to legally or according to the letter of the Constitution was strongly disputed. 
On 13 February 1975 the Labor Party, as a government, successfully moved in the Senate that the chamber declare its support for the replacement of vacating senators by the appointment of senators belonging to the same political parties. Later in the same year when it became clear that the Queensland Legislative Assembly intended to vote to fill the vacancy created by the death of  Senator Milliner  by choosing a candidate who did not have the support of the late  Senator Milliner's  party, the Government moved in the House of Representatives that the House commend to the Parliaments of all the States the practice which had prevailed since 1949 and that the House express its great concern over reports that the long-established convention may not be followed by the Queensland House. The motion was carried without any division. Perhaps the clearest description of the function of these conventional rules is that provided by Marshall and Moodie. Conventions will be found in all constitutions, even those recently established. No rule of law is self applying and conventions are quickly developed to govern the application of the rules. No matter how detailed formal rules may be it is rarely possible in advance to eliminate doubts by way of legislation. They state: 
The result is often to leave a significant degree of discretion to those exercising the rights or wielding the powers legally conferred, defined or permitted. 
Let me repeat what I said in Hobart. If we profess and practise democracy, the political rules or conventions have another critical function. They connect the political system with the general view or concensus of what may or may not legitimately be done within the political process. Any action that is likely to destroy public respect for the existing distribution of power could not be described as conforming to the political rules or conventions. How is the convention respected? Between 1901 and 1974 63 places were vacated in the Senate before the expiry of a senator's time. On 3 occasions- in 1928, 1931 and 1946- State Houses of Parliament chose a new senator from a different political party. I ask honourable members to note the dates: 1928, 1931 and 1946. However, the introduction in 1949 of proportional representation dramatically changed the nature of political representation in the Senate. Before 1949 large majorities had been common. After 1949 the voting system changed that completely. 
Since 1949 there had been, until  Senator Murphy's  vacancy, 25 casual vacancies. Each of those vacancies was filled by the State Houses or governments choosing a senator from the same political party as the vacating senator. Ten of the new senators were chosen by State Houses or governments controlled by political parties professing opposition to the new senators' parties. On each occasion the new senator had been nominated to the State Houses or government by the political party to which the vacating senator had belonged. Furthermore, in 1958 the Joint Committee on Constitutional Review declared that all its members were strongly of the view that the principle of choosing a new senator from the same political party as the vacating senator should be observed without exception. The Committee noted that it had not been able to draft a constitutional amendment to make this choice obligatory. It is pleasing to note this Government has done so. Further, support stemmed from Standing Committee D. The recommendations were adopted without dissent. The recommendations made by both these bodies underlines the desirability of converting either practice or convention into law. The 1959 report repeated its unanimous support cf the principle so that the matter may become the subject of a constitutional convention or understanding, which political parties will always observe'. We are now attempting to give that the force of law. 
For an individual or a small group of people to use as they did, the powers conferred by section 15 of the Constitution as a means of distorting the balance of political power in the Senate is to debase our political system and to bring that system into utter contempt. The real vice in an unfettered and partisan exercise of the power conferred by section 15 is that it places the stab.ility of our political system at substantial risk. It also threatens to undermine public confidence in our political system and in turn the confidence which most people should have in their parliamentary democracy. The power remains unfettered, so far as the formal, justiciable rules of law are concerned but conventions develop to regulate the use of discretionary powers. I suggest that the tory governments of this country broke that convention in the period up to 1975. 
There is no question that conventions keep the legal rules in Une with political development. While we might have expected a wide range of discretion to be exercised in the choice of senators under section 15 up to 1949 once the Senate underwent the critical political change which came with proportional representation the application also ought to have required change. We failed to make the change. We ought to take into account the 2 occasions on which a replacement senator had been chosen from outside the political party of the vacating senator. We should view the reactions of other participants in the political process. I refer to the resolution of the Senate in February 1975 commending the practice which has prevailed since 1949 and the resolution of the House of Representatives commending that practice and viewing with the greatest concern reports that the long established convention may not be followed in Queensland. What was the downstream effect of that. With all due respect to the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  it is only too obvious that actions of the State governments could hardly be said to have been greeted with general acquiescence or indifference. It has divided the community. Indeed, the hostility of public reaction seems to strengthen the argument that experience of the previous 20-odd years had led to a consensus that the power conferred by section 15 should be exercised as it is expressed in this piece of legislation. 
The New South Wales Legislative Assembly chose a senator, a member of no political party. This left those New South Wales voters who had supported the Australian Labor Party on 15 May 1974 under-represented in the Senate. The new senator supported the Government on some vital issues, such as the passage of Supply, but he voted against the Government on other important issues such as the redistribution for which given the results of the double dissolution election of 18 May 1974 the Government had a clear mandate. The action of the Queensland House of Parliament had reduced the Labor Party's representation to a point where it could not defeat, with the aid of Hall and Bunton, the Opposition's motion to defer Supply. Party strength within the Senate was distorted not so much from the appointment of an anti-Labor Party senator as through the failure to appoint an endorsed Labor Party senator. That distortion allowed the Senate to vote to defer Supply- a vote which could not have been passed if the late  Senator Milliner  had been replaced by a Labor Party senator- and to bring on the instability and crisis in November and December 1975. 
I make one last passing observation. What is the real reason why this Tory Government is motivated to press these constitutional amendments, in particular this amendment dealing with casual vacancies? 
-Let us see whether I am. I suggest that the reason is one of simple political necessity. This Tory Government has consciously and deliberately come to the stark reality that the constitutional poison which it prescribed and injected into the Federal Labor Government and which had such a devastating and fatal effect can be injected into this Government with the same devastating and fatal effect. Hence the legislation seeks to achieve the immunity which we were denied but with which this Government and future governments hope to be blessed. It is for that reason that I commend and support the legislation. 
-I address a question to the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. As Australia will become increasingly dependent on imported oil, and in the absence of an agency to monitor prices and a complete assessment of transfer price mechanism, I ask the Minister: Is it a fact that the consumers throughout this country will be taken to the cleaners by international oil companies? Will the failure of this Government to act quickly in these 2 areas leave the door wide open for a massive rip-off? I ask 2 further questions: Will the Minister take immediate steps to allocate sufficient funds to enable the Royal Commission on Petroleum to report upon the large volume of evidence it has amassed on transfer prices? Finally, will the Minister establish an agency as recommended in the fourth report of the Royal Commission on Petroleum to structure a just, effective and efficient price mechanism? 
-Before I speak about the trade practices legislation let me make a few brief observations on the speech made by the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil).  All that I have heard tonight in this debate from honourable members on the tory benches has been one long litany of union bashing. Let me say to the honourable member for St George that I can understand, admire and respect the Government seeking to put the trade union movement of this country in a legal legislative straightjacket if the Government demonstrates some semblance of equity and justice by applying the same legislative straightjacket to companies, stock exchanges, banks, insurance companies and all companies - 
I am pleased to hear the interjection. It would seem from a perusal of what is envisaged in this piece of legislation that the Government does not intend to do that. It proposes to drop section 73A from the Act. I will come to that later. The Government ought to deal with this son of legislation with equity and justice. Today I asked a question of the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard).  I thought it was a very sensible question. I asked, in view of the fact that there will be an escalation of oil imports into this country, what was the Government intending to do about setting up an agency to monitor the prices? More importantly, I asked whether it would allocate sufficient funds for the Royal Commission on Petroleum to complete the collation and assessment of the vast amount of evidence presented to it on transfer prices? The Minister's response was nothing more than a long retort about section 45D and how it would overcome the problem. Let us assume for a moment that the Government does what it proposes with section 4SD. That will not solve the problem ultimately of protection for the consumer. 
The Government must do 2 things. We failed to do them. First, it must make a complete assessment of the transfer prices. Second, it should set up in this country a proper agency to monitor prices. The Minister must admit that we do not have such a structure. The criteria used by the Trade Practices Tribunal to fix a certain area of oil prices is limited. The criteria used by the people in Adelaide to fix petrol prices in Australia are posted prices. The Minister knows as well as I do that posted prices are nothing more than a tax rake-off for the producing countries particularly those in the Middle East. I think that in this debate we ought to be a bit constructive as to where we are going. I have very few attributes to be a politician but one is persistence. The Minister can take it from me that I will persist with those 2 matters. If they are riot dealt with there is no question at all that the consumers throughout this country will be taken to the cleaners. The Minister knows that as well as I do. 
The dilemma for this tory Government is that it is under intense pressure from the oil companies and the finance corporations. That is why section 73A has been deleted and, if I am any judge, the Government will not re-introduce it. The same pressure comes from bankers. Those are the sorts of people whom honourable members opposite really represent. I respect that and I understand it. As I recall it, in 1975 honourable members opposite totally opposed the trade practices legislation which we initiated. 
-Yes, you did. As I recall it, honourable members opposite intended to emasculate that legislation in order to give private enterprise the freedom it chose. They have woken up to the fact that that was not the ball game. They will be under very intense pressure to ensure the desired final result. Two issues are involved in this whole question of trade practices. One- the downstream effect- is the protection of the consumer. The important factor beyond any doubt is the belief that the Government espouses as the cardinal principle behind its philosophy, that is, freedom of competition. I put it to honourable members opposite that the provisions of section 49, which they are emasculating, section 47- there the Government is not putting in the provisions required for price discrimination particularly in the retail section of the oil industry- and section 73A, the link provisions, are .being ignored because the Government will be obliged to do so. 
Despite what the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock)  has said, I have received many representations from small business people in my area. It is their assessment that the more insidious amendment which the Government is making is undoubtedly the repeal of section 49. That was recommended by the Swanson Committee report. Whom does it represent? If we come to grips with the situation, we understand that it represents big business. The Committee was appointed by the present Government. With due deference to the Minister and to the honourable member for Parramatta, I would say that this matter is of great importance to a fragmented section of industry like small business which lacks all the resources of the legal fraternity, the medical fraternity, big business or the Australian Retail Association. It does not have the resources. One would have assumed that before the Swanson Committee made an assessment it would have at least undertaken one or two surveys. Am I right,  Mr Minister,  in assuming that it never did undertake surveys? No surveys were undertaken, as I understand it, by the Swanson Committee. Why not? Irrespective of the call for submissions, why were surveys not undertaken? 
I will be delighted to hear your reply and I think small industry will be, too. In that context it is hardy surprising that small business would want to amend section 49. To the small business people throughout the country section 49 is the cornerstone of survival. The purpose of the section is to put competition between small business and large concerns such as the chain stores at least on an equal footing. Before the Act was introduced small businessmen in the retail trade were often unable to get the same discount as a chain store even if both stores bought the same quantities of an item and traded next door to each other. As I understand it, in South Australia many of the small businesses cannot get access to the only wholesale monopoly in South Australia because they have not got the economies of scale to do so. Section 49 provides the opportunity for a small businessman to obtain the same discount as his competitor when he buys the same quantity of goods. Despite what the Minister may say later, there are undoubtedly more stringent provisions and they have existed in the United States since 1914. With all due respect to the honourable member for Parramatta, I have studied the Act in the United States and I believe it has had a constructive effect in the area it was structured to cover. It is not a good Act. It is not as good as it ought to be. 
-It is the Robinson Patman Act. I commend it to the honourable member. He ought to study it. The Swanson Committee in recommending the repeal of section 49 noted that only one submission had called for the retention of section 49 in its present form. I think we ought to put this in its proper perspective. The third term of reference specifically asked the Committee to report on the effect of the Act on small business and to assess whether small business could and should be accorded special treatment by the Act. At least one major retail association assumed that this automatically precluded the repeal of section 49. Consequently it did not make a submission to the Committee on that section. The 2 federal retail bodies which represent the vast majority of the small food retailers throughout Australia, namely, the Confectionery and Mixed Business Association and the National Association of Retail Grocers, both strongly oppose the repeal of section 49. You admit that, do you,  Mr Minister?  They believe that section 49 has in many instances prevented unfair discrimination and that it has been a major factor in the survival of small business. 
For what it is worth I will cite one case. I think most probably the Trade Practices Commission was correct. The case was raised in South Australia. It portrays the problem faced by small business people: 
We presented a case to the Trade Practices Commission. We are a mixed business in Adelaide purchasing about S40 worth of cake per day from a leading cake manufacturer. 
-Yes. It goes on: 
The chain store next door to us was purchasing around $13 worth of cake from the same manufacturer. The small man was permitted a discount off suggested retail price of 20 per cent, the goods being charged at retail price less discount. The chain store with smaller purchases was given a 30 per cent discount. 
The Commission dismissed the complaint, stating that the manufacturer claimed he was meeting competition as provided for in section 49 (2) (b). It was felt that if the party against whom the manufacturer had to compete was offering a special discount then he must have originally contravened the Act. I would have assumed that to be correct. In this type of case the Act does not give the assistance to small businesses that they had hoped for and that they felt confident they would receive from the original piece of legislation. 
Let me cite another case. It is not strictly pertinent to this section but it is an indication of the business ethics that those who sit on the other side of this House support. I have an interest in oil. I took note of a particular company report last October. The report was issued by Marrickville Margarine Pty Ltd. The company was most impressed that the quotas on polyunsaturated margarine had been lifted throughout Australia following a move initiated by the Labor Government in South Australia. However, the company did indicate in its annual report that it was concerned that profits had been reduced because of the price cutting structure within the large chain stores. I noted that. Three weeks ago I decided to do a survey. The remarkable thing is that no longer does there exist any variation between the prices of polyunsaturated margarine and butter. I would like that case sent to the Commission for investigation. I assume that there has been a levelling up of prices. 
Do you call that business ethics? The only person who suffers in that instance is, of course, the consumer. Then there is the matter of beef prices.  Mr Minister,  I would be grateful if this matter too, were referred to the Commission. Beef prices have been extremely low, as I recall it, for the last 18 months. But anybody in the leather industry will confirm that in the last 2 months the price of leather has risen by  5Vi  per cent. Yet beef producers in the last 18 months have been going bankrupt. 
-Never mind that. I am sticking to something a little more constructive.  Mr Minister,  I would be grateful if both of those matters could be investigated. 
-So would I. The Automobile Chamber of Commerce, which represents the majority of petrol retailers, has asked for a strengthening of section 49. The Trade Practices Commission itself, after studying the report of the review committee recommended that section 49 be retained. Am I correct or not,  Mr Minister?  The Royal Commission on Petroleum recommended after an extensive study of petroleum marketing and a close observation of the effects of price discrimination that section 49 be strengthened along the lines of the Clayton Act in the United States. I suggest to the Minister that when he finally gets down to making an assessment of the oil pricing mechanism and structure in this country he will be obliged to adopt similar legislation. You concede that, do you,  Mr Minister?  I am delighted. On the other hand, the Australian Retailers Association, which is dominated largely by the food chains and large retail interests, is opposed to section 49. 1 wonder,  Mr Minister,  whether you have received a submission from that august body in support of the retention of section 49, or has it sat on the fence? I assume that it has done the latter. It is not surprising, to me at any rate, that the Government is obliged to back big business. That is part of the political game, regrettably. If this section is repealed the result will be a return to the law of the jungle. The retail chains will increase their holding of the present food market from 60 per cent to 80 or 90 per cent because of the pressures they can exert on suppliers. No member of this chamber would have to travel more than 200 yards from where he lives to see what the large monopolistic retail chains have done to the small corner shop that honourable members opposite seek to protect. If the Government eliminates section 49, that is precisely what it will escalate. 
I return to the earlier 2 cases. What does the Government mean by inflation? The Government talked a lot about it in the period up to 1975, when the housewife went to the local chain store and found that prices escalated week after week. If the Government allows the sort of practice that goes on with polyunsaturated margarine and if that is escalated along the line, who pays the price? What does inflation mean to the ordinary housewife? It means that she pays higher prices. That is what inflation means to the ordinary housewife. The Government will destroy the mechanism by which that process can be pulled or clawed back if it destroys section 49. But the Government r/ill do what it is told to do, as it will with section 73A. I put 14 questions on the notice paper to the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  regarding this matter. 
I refer to the article which appeared in the  Financial Review.  The only difference between the Minister and myself is that I followed it up. I will be very interested to hear a reply from the Minister on what he will do with that section which was contained in the old Act. He has now taken it out of the legislation. As I said earlier, if section 73A is removed, any sense of meaningful competition will cease. All international oil companies will continue to discriminate on prices to the detriment of their own lessee dealers. This will escalate in the oil industry. The consumer will again be on the receiving end of what is loosely but appropriately termed collusive and manipulated business transactions. 
The point is that preferential discounts must be paid for somehow. Somewhere down along the line somebody pays for them. It is the consumer. The easiest way is to charge small business a fictitiously high wholesale price. Once any market is dominated by a few major organisations, as will occur in the retail field if section 49 is abolished and mergers are allowed to continue with takeover provisions, past experience has shown that the poor consumer will be the last to receive any consideration. I put to the Minister that I am firmly convinced that the abolition of section 49 will certainly lead to the death knell of so many small businesses throughout this country, businesses which this Government hypocritically and sycophantically espouses. I do not think there is any doubt at all that there will be 3 deficiencies, apart from proposed section 45D, in the amendments. My colleagues have done a magnificent job with regard to section 45D this evening. I regret to say that I do not think there will be any constructive movements in section 49, section 47 or section 73. It is in those 3 areas that so much depends, particularly for small business in this country. It is to that extent and with regard to the other 2 issues which are raised that I can assure the Minister that I will persist throughout this debate and subsequent debates. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
1 ) Is  Mr R.  J. Withnall, a member of the Legislative Assembly of the Northern Territory and a former Crown Law Officer, Darwin, under contract to the Australian Government to produce a report on Imperial Acts and South Australian Acts still in force in the Northern Territory. 
If so, when was he engaged to produce the report, and has any report been made to the Government. 
If a report has been made, when will it be made public, and when will its recommendations be implemented. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Is it a fact, as reported in the  Australian Financial Review  of 1 December 1976, that the Government proposes to amend the Foreign Proceedings (Prohibition of Certain Evidence) Act which was passed recently. 
Has he received advice that certain provisions of the Act may be unconstitutional; if so, what provisions. 
3 ) Is it a fact that the Solicitor-General did not see the Bill before it was introduced into the House; if so, why. 
If any of the provisions of the Act are unconstitutional, will this affect the validity of the order which has been issued in respect of the present proceedings before the Supreme Court of New South Wales. 
What is the present status of the letter of request addressed to the Supreme Court of New South Wales seeking evidence of alleged price fixing of uranium. 
Has the Court considered the letter of request in the light of the order made under the Act; if so, what order has it made. 
Does the Government propose to amend the present Act in order to overcome constitutional invalidity; if so, how and when. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
In view of the review of the Secret Commissions Act referred to in answer to my question No. 1 733, will he ensure that sections 73 and 88 of the Crimes Act, and regulations 37 and 38 of the Public Service Regulations, are taken into account in the review. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
Is the Government proposing to amend the Conciliation and Arbitration Act so as to remove from the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission power to deal with industrial disputes relating to wages. 
Does the Government propose that all wage claims should in future be settled by collective bargaining. 
3) If so, will these proposals mean an end to the system of wage indexation which has been implemented by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. 
Does the Government propose to legislate to regulate collective bargaining pursuant to the trade and commerce power, the corporations power and the territories power; if so, what is to be the form of the proposed legislation. 
What is the precise status of International Labour Organisation Convention No. 98 which relates to collective bargaining and which was ratified by the Australian Government in 1973 and entered into force in 1974. 
Does the Government propose to enact machinery legislation to give effect to the provisions ofILO Convention No. 98; if so, will this conflict with any legislation proposed to regulate collective bargaining. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
Has the Government considered amending the Public Service Arbitration Act to impose a freeze on Public Service salaries and wages. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
1 ) Has  Mr Alan  Loxton been appointed to review the operations of the Australian Legal Aid Office in Sydney. 
If so, what are the exact terms of reference of his appointment, and will he be in receipt of any remuneration for this review. If so, what amount 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
1 ) Will the Credit Law Committee of the Standing Committee of Attorneys-General give consideration to the Canadian Borrowers and Depositors Protection Bill introduced into the Canadian Parliament on 27 October 1976. 
Have any discussions taken place with officials of the Canadian Government concerning this new legislation. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) What was the allocation for Natural Disaster Organisations in each State in 1974-75, 1975-76, and 1976-77. 
How was the money spent. 
Is he satisfied that the allocation to South Australia is adequate to support an organisation which can effectively cope with any natural disaster, especially earthquake, which South Australia might face. 
Does the Civil Defence School provide courses specifically related to earthquake mitigation or earthquake damage. 
If so, have any South Australian officers attended this course. 
If not, will he ensure that such a course is established and that officers from South Australia attend the course. 
What effort is, or has been, made at the local level to set up emergency service units which could cope with an earthquake in towns in the mid-north of South Australia, such as Gladstone, Jamestown and Peterborough. 
I address my question to the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs and I trust that he makes a better job of what he says this time than the view that was expressed in the Melbourne  Age.  Does the Minister agree that due to the way petroleum product prices are controlled in Australia current pricing practices are confusing, anomalous, largely uneconomic and without adequate- 
-In speaking to what is in effect a Government statement I would like to pass some constructive observations on the speech made by the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron).  I think he ought to distinguish between the Westminster system and the federal system. There is a succinct difference between them. He omitted of course to advise the House that in 1911 by parliamentary Act the House of Lords was stripped of its right to block Supply. The crisis that this country faces, irrespective of whether it has a monarchy or is a republic, without a vast constitutional amendment, is simply the question summed up so eloquently by  Sir Robert  Garran when he quoted what J. W. Hackett once said. He said: 
The struggle in Australia from early Federation is whether in fact responsible government will kill federalism or federalism will kill responsible government. 
There is a big difference between responsible government in the Westminster system as we know it and the Westminster system and federalism within the Australian structure. There is not dual responsibility of powers in the Westminster system. In Britain the House of Lords does not have the power that our Senate has. The dilemma Australia faces, irrespective of whether it has a monarch or a republican  president,  is that we have a bicameral structure in our Parliament with both chambers having equal power. The honourable member for Griffith ought to have applied himself to whether history in fact will judge the Governor-General as having acted in the role of the monarch in a capacity of neutrality. I must say in all constructiveness- I regret that I have to say it- that I think history will not be so kind. 
What I think everybody really ought to take note of in the Government's speech- that is what the Queen's Speech from the Throne is; it is an intention of policy- is that it contains not one word of the policy of this Government in two crucial areas. One is the need to implement a national energy policy. Secondly, there was no intimation about what has to be done to overcome the dilemma that has faced this Government for 12 months over an oil pricing policy. It is in these 2 areas that the Government has lost its sense of priorities. Both of course are going to be resolved, or rather smothered, by that time worn conservative mantle of 'leave it to selfregulation'. We have seen this applied to the activities of insurance companies and insurance brokers. Let me say to the House that I fought for 4 years to get some Federal legislation for insurance brokers. Now I note that it is to be left to self-regulation. In my view that is a disaster. I will continue to press this Government for Federal legislation in this area. Whether it is in the area of company law or security regulation there has been an endless litany over the last 3 months of company collapses brought about by either fraudulent transactions or collusive practices. This Government's answer is: 'Leave it to selfregulation.' In the field of corporate activity this nation and its people are paying and will continue to pay a very severe price for the 25 years of culpable neglect and adherence to selfregulation by disgraceful Liberal governments. 
Today I asked 3 questions of the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard).  The first was whether the Government would extend sufficient capital to enable the Royal Commission on Petroleum to complete and table its report on transfer pricing. The second question was whether the Government would set up an agency to monitor oil pricing structures in this country. The third question was whether, as an interim measure, the Government would increase the staff of the Prices Justification Tribunal. The Minister evaded the second question. On the last question he said that there was sufficient staff. On the first question about transfer pricing he said that it was a matter for  Senator Withers.  Let me say this: As long as Withers dithers the people throughout the length and breadth of this country will be taken to the cleaners by the international oil companies operating in this country. 
In the area of energy and minerals resources Australia is indeed a very lucky country. But oil is rapidly evaporating. With domestic production of oil expected to supply only one-third of our needs by 1985 we will increasingly find ourselves at the mercy of and vulnerable to foreign suppliers of this basic commodity. The dependence of our society on imported oil will allow no room for complacency in government attitudes towards the oil industry. The former Labor Minister for Minerals and Energy, the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor),  was the first Australian Minister to recognise governmental neglect of the oil industry and the increasing importance oil would assume in policy formation. As a result of his initiative the Royal Commission on Petroleum was established to investigate the industry in depth. It commenced public hearings in December 1973 and concluded its sixth report last year. The total cost was $1.7m. The present Government axed the activities of the Commission on the grounds of economy before it could report on 2 crucial issues- natural gas and transfer pricing. The latter topic was listed in the terms of reference of the Commission as follows: 
To what extent fuel pricing by companies operating in Australia which are subsidiaries of foreign corporations has been influenced or determined by the decisions of their overseas principals in such matters as inflating original prices paid to overseas crude oil producers and shipping freight thereon thus creating an artificially high landed price to the detriment of Australian consumers. 
I suggest that this will loom very largely and will be of great importance to Australia as our imports of crude oil increase. The Commission has completed a large amount of work on this topic. In the sixth report Commissioner Collins had this to say: 
It is unfortunate that the very considerable work done on this topic will not find its way into a report. 
It will be left to posterity as an archaeological exercise. The cost of compiling a report on transfer pricing would be minimal in relation to the overall cost of the Commission, yet neglect of this topic could well cost Australian consumers much more than this every day in over-inflated petrol prices. 
The Commission investigated the area sufficiently to urge the Government to establish an agency to monitor and regulate this and other aspects of the Australian oil industry. Its investigations have shown the complete naivety of conservative governments in this country towards international corporations. The Commission observed: 
The most distinctive feature of the oil industry in Australia is that the evolution and development has been almost untouched by the rational and integrated policy requirements of government. This policy vacuum is matched by the paucity in the public domain of published material,  which seriously analyses the industry's problem. This absence of effective public administration contrasts strongly with the experience of countries overseas such as Canada, the United States, United Kingdom, Norway, France and New Zealand. In each country the question of whether public administration had to take a substantial executive role in distribution and marketing (including prices) has long since been decided affirmatively. 
I commend to honourable members opposite this very pertinent assessment: 
Underlying all overseas governments' policies was the view that security of supply, balance of payments, price to consumers, social utility of investment and basic industrial organisation were too important to be left to the commercial rivalries of foreign-owned corporations. 
It goes on to conclude that Australia, or at least the Australian consumer, has suffered adversely by the apparent neglect of its organs of public administration to intervene in this field of industry in any effective way. For the Government to prevent the Commission from completing a report on transfer pricing merely adds another instance of Government neglect in this area. In answer to a question which I asked in February, the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs criticised my statement that the oil industry had taken consumers to the cleaners. It is clear that the Minister has not read the reports of the Commission. Furthermore, his Government is aiding and abetting this situation for as long as the Government refuses to take action to properly regulate the industry. 
At almost the same time as the Commission was reporting on the amazing gullibility of the Government in these matters, a New Zealand commission of inquiry reported on the oil industry in that country. That commission recommended the retention of controls which the oil industry in New Zealand has had for many years. They were hoping that private enterprise would be given a  carte blanche,  but the commission decided differently. The question of the pricing of Australian petroleum products has never been satisfactorily resolved. Perhaps the PJT has done so in the wholesale area. The Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee)  laughs. He knows that I am right. The retail area is in a shambles. When the Prices Justification Tribunal was set up in 1974 to cover companies and to fix wholesale prices it acknowledged that posted prices for crude oil were usually well above market prices. However, the Tribunal still faced the problem of how to monitor effectively the landed costs of crude oil and products. The Tribunal lacks the resources and special knowledge to monitor effectively the arms length cost of imported crude oil. The Government will have to overcome that if it wants to come to grips with the problem. It was partly because the determination of price in the oil industry depends on many factors peculiar to the industry that the Royal Commission recommended that a special statutory authority be established to regulate the oil industry. The Royal Commission summed it up more concisely than had ever been stated before. It said: 
The structure of pricing is just a mess. 
One illustration of this is the large degree of what is loosely termed 'cross subsidisation' which has occurred within the present structure. Distillates and similar products were, at least prior to 1974, discounted below prices set by the South Australian Prices Commissioner to a much greater extent than motor spirit prices were discounted below their set prices. For many years the motorist has subsidised the less profitable of the industry's activities. 
The multi-tired price structure of motor spirit disguises another form of cross subsidy. Petrol resellers in company-owned outlets generally pay the highest wholesale price. Independent dealers generally pay less than dealers in company-owned stations. The question that arises is whether the average discount to independent dealers is as large as the hidden rental charge in the maximum wholesale price of motor spirit. Another form of cross subsidy in the oil industry was highlighted recently when the Minister for Consumer Affairs in New South Wales, my very good friend Syd Einfeld, opposed a price rise application from Esso Australia Limited before the PJT. The Minister questioned why New South Wales motorists should continue to subsidise those in Melbourne. The Commission estimated that if all retail motor spirits in the Melbourne area were sold at an average discount of 5c a gallon this would be equivalent to a nationwide subsidy from all other markets of 1.4c a gallon to Melbourne consumers. The actual subsidy to Melbourne consumers could well be larger than this. 
Yet another set of problems in the current pricing structure relates to unfair pricing. This Government certainly will not tackle this one. Oil companies sell motor spirit at different net selling prices to their branded resellers in the same market. There is also a practice whereby a company sells similar quality unbranded products at lower prices to unbranded resellers competing in the same market with their own dealers. A dealer operating a company-owned station may find that a competing station is selling petrol at a price lower than that at which he can purchase it from his own oil company. By moving to repeal section 49 of the Trade Practices Act in defiance of the Commission's recommendations the Government is showing its approval for the preservation of these discriminatory practices. I will fight the move to repeal section 49 from the Act when it comes before the Parliament as I will fight the move to repeal section 73. I have said this before that the regrettable fact of life is that this Government will do what it is told, and that will be to remove section 49 and section 73. The Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee)  who is sitting at the table laughs. I note that section 73 which has had a disastrous effect on the finance corporations has been removed from the earlier draft I wonder why. 
Perhaps the worst aspect of the present pricing structure is that consumers throughout Australia are subsidising uneconomic petrol outlets. What needs to be understood about the multinational character of the oil industry- and this has been known for many years-is that oil corporations prefer to make their profits at the production stage in the Middle East where there exists a low taxation base. The function of the Australian market is merely to emphasise the consumption level. The more product consumed, the more production and therefore the more profit in a favourable Middle East tax base. 
The method of 'transfer prices', to which I referred earlier, is one way in which profit can be maximised overseas. A company may charge itself a high purchase price for oil and high freight or technical charges. Another way of maximising profit overseas is to maximise consumption. By increasing oil use in Australia more production and more profit result in the Middle East. To encourage the consumption of their particular product the major oil companies open outlets, which may be uneconomic or marginally economic, just to increase their total sales. They have done it for years. They do it all over the world. The Australian motorist is then forced to subsidise the operation of these outlets through higher petrol prices. Because of the nature of the industry there is no price competition. Perhaps real savings in the cost of retailing petrol would result from a rationalisation of petrol stations. The Commission found: . . . if all mainline stations averaged 25,000 gallons a month and, through a rationalisation programme the average throughout of those stations could be increased to 50,000 gallons a month, it would theoretically be possible to reduce prices at the pump by about 10 cents a gallon, ignoring the impact of inflation on  costs  during the rationalisation process. 
I wish the Minister would cease referring to increases in the price of petrol in terms of cents a litre. I think that the people outside would understand it better if he said ' 10c or 1 lc a gallon '. 
To illustrate the point further I point out that the Commission states that the total retail margin for petrol in New South Wales was approximately 18c a gallon in 1975 as against 7c a gallon in New Zealand and about 7c a gallon in United States currency for the larger petrol stations in the United States. There is no doubt at all that the people of Australia are being taken to the cleaners to the tune of about $200m. This Government has to tackle this question. It cannot hide it by sending it to an interdepartmental committee. I would be delighted to know whether the Minister for Productivity, who is at the table, could tell me whether the evidence accumulated on transfer prices by the Royal Commission has been put at the disposal of an interdepartmental committee. My information is that the answer is no. In fairness I ask how this Government is going to be in a position to make a balanced assessment when it brings down its recommendations. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
That the honourable member for Hawker be granted an extension of time. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I have a warm regard for the Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee)  and I am very grateful to him. 
I think that is rather ungracious. The desire to promote fuel consumption has another unsatisfactory effect beside the waste it has created in the marketing side of the oil industry. The policy encouraging wastage of petroleum is totally inappropriate for Australia's future situation. This has been the policy of oil companies for years. The Commission and many other bodies have urged the Government to adopt policies designed to limit rather than promote consumption. Australia needs more than ever before a national energy policy. The Government must come to terms with the fact that Australia faces an ever increasing annual import bill for oil. Price is one factor which may influence motor spirit consumption and the level of exploration for new oil fields. The Commission observed that increases in the price of motor spirit do not, to a proportionate degree, inhibit consumption and that price is only one factor among others which discourages consumption. That problem is not in the ball park of the overseas major companies. Any attempt by the Government to escalate the price of petrol in the absence of measures to rationalise the marketing of petroleum cannot be justified on the basis of conservation alone. As far as exploration for oil in Australia is concerned, the problem is not just one of price. All new domestic oil discoveries will receive import parity prices. Increasing the price of existing domestic oil deposits cannot affect the price of oil from new discoveries. The problem with oil exploration in Australia, whether we like it or not, is that the potential for future discoveries is at best fair. 
An article in the November issue of the Queensland Government's  Mining Journal  illustrates the problem in that State. The geological study of Queensland 's sedimentary basins shows that the potential for further discoveries of a large oil field is poor and for a small economic oil field it is fair. The history of exploration and development in Queensland, however, shows an expenditure of $ 150m with a revenue to companies of $59.4m. Taking into consideration that present costs of exploration and development have risen 400 per cent in the last decade, one can see the real reason why oil exploration has tapered off in Australia. It is not a question of government. It is a sheer question of fact. If the price of oil is to be increased to induce exploration then any increased revenue from oil prices must be collected by the Australian Government and redistributed for exploration. The South Australian Government has shown the way by subsidising exploration in the Cooper Basin. The granting of further windfall profits or handouts to international oil companies which have only a passing interest in Australia's oil supply problems would put at risk any chance of future discovery of oil deposits in this country. 
I want to conclude my remarks by passing on to the Government a couple of constructive observations on the question of oil prices because this is a problem for the Government. It is one area in which I have taken an interest for a number of years. I pass on 2 or 3 constructive observations. If one takes the time to study the numerous trust busting reports, as they are termed, in the United States, one comes to grips with a recent telling maxim of  Senator Church.  He said: 
It is time we began the process of demystifying the inner sanctum of this most secretive of industries. 
That is the oil industry. The gist of these findings have revealed repeatedly that the oil majors control and dictate marketing and distribution outlets outside their own countries. They control and dictate all foreign refineries, patents and, to a large extent, refining technology. They have consistently divided up the world markets between them almost since 1922; they have shared pipelines and tankers throughout the world and they have maintained an artificially high price for oil. 
The objective of his global conspiracy is market stabilisation. Its essential terms are market division and price fixing. Surely it is a truism mouthed by honourable members opposite that a monopoly of oil, in terms of distribution and marketing, in the hands of such cartels does not square at all with the principles of so-called competitive free enterprise democracy. I conclude with one very telling maxim uttered not very long ago by a former United States Secretary of the Interior. The Ministers responsible for this area in Cabinet ought to note it well. I do not know that I entirely agree with it but I would put it in the back of my mind when dealing with this particular question. It was found in his diary and deals with the oil majors- the international companies. He said that an honest and scrupulous man in the oil business is so rare as to rank as a museum piece. I will do my best to ensure that if any decision is made on oil in this country it will be in the interests of the Australian nation as a whole and in the interests of the consumers. 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, relates to the Government's puerile 'co-operative' securities legislation. Can the Minister say how his proposed 'co-operative' securities legislation will protect creditors from the appointment of trustees in the bankruptcy of a stockbroking partnership who have 'a rapport with and a sympathy towards members of the partnership' or who have been cognisant of a diminution in the liquid capital position prior to the collapse of the firm, but who make no reference to this diminution when compiling financial statements? 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice on 9 March 1977: 
1 ) What are the names of the (a) full-time and (b) pantime members of the new broadcasting tribunal? 
What is the interest either direct or indirect of any members of the Tribunal in any broadcasting or television licence or broadcasting or television companies in Australia? 
Are members of the Tribunal to be asked to relinquish any interest they may have in any broadcasting or television licence or any broadcasting and television company? 
How much Australian content was included in programs shown on each television station within Australia and what percentage of the Australian content was composed of: (a) news (b) documentaries (c) news analysis (d) sport (e) variety (f) drama (g) comedy (h) religion (i) music-classical (j) music-popular (k) music-general and (1) talent quests during the last 12 months? 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice, on 10 March 1977: 
1 ) Has the Consumer Affairs Council of the Australian Capital Territory prepared a report on credit reporting. 
If so, when will the report be tabled in the Parliament or the Legislative Assembly. 
Has the report been referred to the Australian Law Reform Commission for consideration in relation to its reference on privacy. 
Does the report take into consideration the Canadian Bill relating to disclosure of credit rating records introduced into the Canadian House of Commons on 22 October 1 976. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
1 ) Did he say in an interview published in the  Australian  on 2 March 1977 that he thought the structure of the marketing of petrol is a solo marketing operation because there are certain economies of operation involved in solo marketing. 
Has his attention been drawn to the 4th Report of the Royal Commission on Petroleum which stated that partly as a consequence of the introduction of solus trading there has been a marked decline in the influence and role of the independent dealer, a very large investment in retail sites and excessive over-building of service stations and evolution of non-price competition rather than price competition. 
If so, does the Government agree that solus trading has been to the detriment of the consumer. 
In view of other Royal Commission conclusions regarding company-dealer relationships and the very high turnover and dissatisfaction of dealers, does the Government also agree that any economies of operation involved in solo marketing have also been to the detriment of lessee dealers. 
Why did he state, in the interview referred to in part ( I ), that he did not see any revolutionary change from the prohibition on the ties in the petrol industry. 
Does this statement indicate that the Royal Commission's findings are incorrect or does it indicate that the Government has not proceeded far enough in reforming discriminatory practices in the oil industry. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
Has he or his Department asked the AttorneyGeneral's Department for a legal opinion on the extent to which the Government can act on discounting in the oil industry without infringing the Trade Practices Act, as was reported in the  Financial Review  of 28 January 1977. 
If so, what sections of the Trade Practices Act was he referring to, and were these sections to be amended in the Trade Practices Amendment Bill introduced in the First Session of this Parliament. 
Has the Attorney-General's Department given its legal opinion. If so, what is the effect of that opinion. 
Will the Trade Practices Act Amendment Bill be altered when it is re-introduced into Parliament to enable the 
Government to act on price cutting in the oil industry which is based on discriminatory practices. 
Did the Royal Commission on Petroleum recommend that section 49 of the Trade Practices Act be amended in line with the Clayton Act of the United States of America to prevent price discrimination. 
If he has not asked for a legal opinion on this section will he consider doing so before the Trade Practices Act Amendment Bill is re-introduced into Parliament. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the 5th Report of the Royal Commission on Petroleum (page 868) which concluded that a great deal more needs to be done in Australia on monitoring air pollution levels and determining the extent to which motor vehicles contribute to them, and that control of motor vehicle emissions should be made on a coherent national level rather than on a State level. 
If so, does the Government intend to adopt these recommendations. If so, when. 
Have any discussions been held with the States on this matter, and will discussions be held in the near future. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 10 March 1977: 
Has the Government considered introducing legislation outlawing resale price maintenance of packaged beer so as to nullify the effect of State legislation fixing the price of packaged beer. 
Has the Government received any representations concerning this matter; if so, from whom, and what was the nature of the representations. 
Does the Government propose any inquiry into beer pricing, other than inquiries conducted by the Prices Justification Tribunal, along the lines of that presently being conducted by the United Kingdom Prices Commission. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 10 March 1977: 
1 ) Is it proposed to implement all the recommendations of the Tariff Board Report on Motion Pictures and Television Programs; if not, why not. 
What action does the Trade Practices Commission propose to take against the Greater Union Organisation Pty Ltd and Cinema International Corporation Pty Ltd with respect to their exclusive dealing arrangements. 
Has his attention been drawn to a report appearing in the  Irish Times  of 30 December 1976 relating to the investigation of the Irish Trade Practices Commission into film distribution and exhibition in the Irish Republic. 
If so, has this investigation any relevance to the current film distribution and exhibition arrangements which exist in Australia, and will it be taken into account in the present proposed amendments to the Trade Practices Act. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 15 March 1977: 
1 ) As the Australian Government insurance legislation is very similar in structure to that of the Insurance Companies Act 1974 of the United Kingdom, will he give urgent consideration to having incorporated into the Australian legislation provisions dealing with (a) control of insurance company investments and (b) oversight of the suitability of directors and other executive officers of such companies. 
Will he take steps to amend the Insurance Acts 1973, by including a new section 21A similar to section 7 of the United Kingdom Act, with consequential amendments to sections 22 and 27. 
Will he also take steps to (a) amend section 29 by inserting a new provision that a person is not a fit and proper person to manage the affairs of a body corporate, (b) amend section 52 by inserting the provision in section 39 of the United Kingdom Act, (c) insert new sections 62A, 62B and 62C similar to sections 52,53 and 54 of the United Kingdom Act and (d) amend section 30 to incorporate the investment provisions contained in section 30 of the United Kingdom Act. 
Will he also give urgent consideration to having similar amendments made to the Life Insurance Act 1 945. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 15 March 1977: 
1 ) Has the number of officials of the Taxation Department investigating the transfer price charged by multinational oil companies for imported crude oil and products been reduced in the last 2 years. If so, why. 
How many officials of the Taxation Department are currently engaged in the investigation of the transfer price of imported crude oil and petroleum products. 
What is the total amount of section 136 adjustments under the Income Tax Assessment Act relating to multinational oil companies, and what proportion is directly attributable to misleading transfer prices. 
Is the section 136 adjustment in British Petroleum's accounts for 1975 due to the discovery of a misleading transfer price by taxation officials. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 22 March 1977: 
Has his attention been drawn to a report in the  Australian Financial Review  of 16 March 1977 concerning an Attorney-General's Department opinion on Industrial 
Equity Limited 's takeover intentions for Wm Haughton and Co. Ltd. If so, is the report correct. 
Did  Sir Robert  Southey or any other director or officer of Wm Haughton and Co. Ltd approach any Minister in the Government with a view to taking any action against Industrial Equity. If so, to whom, and when was each approach made. 
What sections of the Foreign Takeovers Act 1975 apply to Industrial Equity, and has Industrial Equity compiled with all or any of these provisions. 
If Industrial Equity has not complied with any applicable sections of the Foreign Takeovers Act, what action is proposed to enforce those provisions. 
Can he say whether  Mr Michael  Cranswick was informed by Industrial Equity of its re-organisation so that it could be regarded as an Australian company. 
What was the nature of the re-organisation by Industrial Equity so that it could be considered an Australian company. 
Was the advice given by the Attorney-General's Department given in the absence of knowledge of the recent reorganisation by Industrial Equity. If so, why. 
Can he say whether Industrial Equity has received legal advice that it can now be regarded as an Australian company for the purposes of the Foreign Takeovers Act. If so, what is the nature of the advice given to Industrial Equity. 
Is the advice received from the Attorney-General's Department now to be regarded as incorrect in the light of the re-organisation by Industrial Equity. 
Were searches conducted of the share register of Industrial Equity to ascertain if it was potentially subject to the Foreign Takeovers Act. If so, what were the searches. If not, why not. 
Was consideration given to the voting rights of shareholders in Industrial Equity to ascertain who controlled this company. If so, what consideration. If not, why not. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 24 March 1977: 
Has his attention been drawn to the report in the  Australian Financial Review  of 22 March 1977 relating to Ensign Holdings and the Trade Practices Commission. If so, is the report accurate. 
Did  Sir Chas.  McGrath make any representations to any Commissioner of the Trade Practices Commission with a view to having the decision of the single Commissioner reversed in respect of the 2 company acquisitions. 
If so, is there any note or record of these representations in the files of the Trade Practices Commission. 
If there is any note or record of these representations, will he table it in the Parliament. 
I spoke on this matter on a previous occasion and I do not intend now to canvass the same areas. I am rather amazed to hear repeatedly the assertion that scientists and technologists apparently have the competence to overcome the technical difficulties of conversion for either solar or fusion energy purposes, yet oddly enough the same scientists apparently do not have the competence to solve the issues involved in fission power. 
I should like to refer tonight to a speech made by  Sir Brian  Flowers late last year in the United Kingdom, when he explained his methodology and approach to his report on nuclear power and the environment. Quoting from his report, he said: 
There are few subjects in the field of environmental pollution to which people react so emotionally as they do to radioactivity. One reason is the association with the destructive uses of nuclear energy'. We recall 'The development of reactors to harness nuclear energy for the generation of electrical power stemmed directly from the weapons programs'. It is an historical barrier which, like Ireland and the Middle East, will not be easily overcome. 
We set the international scene in its long-term context in paragraphs 7 and 8 where we said (paragraph 7) 'The sudden increase in the price of oil in 1973 provided a sharp warning to industrialised countries of their vulnerability on energy supply. . . .' 
He went on to say something that adds credibility to what I said in the previous debate: 
The world reserves of coal are relatively very large but it is by no means clear that coal could be mined on the scale that would be needed to meet growing energy demands, or that the environmental problems arising from its extraction and use would be acceptable. Moreover, it must be remembered that fossil fuels will be needed not only as a source of energy but as raw materials for the chemical industry. It has been said that our age will be condemned in retrospect for its profligate use of these fuels. Against this background the emergence of nuclear power as an alternative energy source for mankind appears providential. 
When I was in California at the height of the Californian campaign a Professor Manne, who was highly regarded in the United States, passed an observation on the alternative which Carter faced and which was reported as follows: 
A Harvard economist, Professor Alan Manne, recently told an audience at Stanford University, California, that substituting coal-fired plants for new nuclear facilities would cause an estimated S000 more deaths annually across the nation by 1985. 
About half the deaths would come from increased air pollution, with the rest resulting from mining accidents and other activities needed to generate the energy. 
I think that is a simple fact which ought to be taken into consideration. Undoubtedly it is one which the United States will have to face up to. Flowers, quoting again from his report, went on in his speech to say: 
On the other hand, nuclear power introduces environmental risks and problems, and some of these appear unique in their implications for society . . .' 
He went on to make a very pertinent observationan aphorism. We ought to remember it. He stated: 
Prosperity without pollution is impossible, so an industrial nation's view about the seriousness of pollution has to be tempered by many conflicting considerations in order to achieve an acceptable balance. I believe it is  Sir Hermann  Bondi who is credited with the aphorism: 'if war is too dangerous to be left to the generals, peace is too important to be left to the pacifists'. One could equally say that if prosperity is too important to be left to the industrialists, pollution is too important to be left to the environmentalists! 
He went on to say: 
In the course of these early chapters we laid to rest a number of horror stories. Regarding genetic effects we said: At the levels of radiation likely to be permitted in relation to possible somatic effects, the genetic effects should be of little concern'. As the population at risk throughout the world increases, genetic aspects will have to be borne in mind. Also concluded that no case has been made for the potential cancer producing substances of 'hot' particles of plutonium absorbed by the lung, a story causing great alarm a couple of years ago because it would probably have meant, if true, the abandonment of nuclear power. On the contrary we were convinced that the present standards of plutonium exposure and intake were not seriously in error. 
We also did our best to compare the hazards of nuclear power with other hazards of ordinary and industrial life, and to keep them in perspective. We agreed that the famous piece of plutonium the size of an orange contains enough of the substance to kill everyone on earth', but pointed out that it is impossible that it could be so distributed as to have this effect'. We likened it to saying that 'a two-millionth part of our annual production (of chlorine) would, in theory, suffice to kill the entire population '-which is equally true, but the theory is equally naive. We realised enough of the difficulties ... to be wary of making such comparisons lightly ... it is better that they are not made at all except on the basis of authoritative toxicological studies and with scrupulous attention to the circumstances in which different substances are used. 
Frankly, I think far too much emotionalism is being injected into this debate. I found when I went to California last year at the height of the debate that, as a prospective source of energy, nuclear fission is not what it was when the Californian debate began- and for a fairly obvious reason. As the campaign started to mount, Californians began to come to the realisation that more was at stake than just the 3 existing nuclear power plants in California or even the 3 1 that were planned for the next 20 years. The Californian campaign was a forerunner to the national campaign in the United States. Everybody in California came to the realisation that the United States relied for its basic energy needs on oil and gas, that since 1968 Californian oil and gas production had been rapidly declining and that this had brought a rapid dependence on imported oil from over the Californian border and perhaps a reliance on either Algerian or Indonesian imported gas. 
California is a contradictory place. It is a high consumption area that is obsessed with material needs. The part of the world in which it is situated has a high regard for the environment. In fact it had lead the world in this area. The battle that developed in California really was between competing scares, if you tike- the fear of nuclear accidents in the future or the fear of an energy shortage and economic retardation virtually immediately. For what it is worth, I found when I got there that over 5200 scientists, 9 of whom were Nobel Prize winers, had signed a petition in California in support of nuclear power. One might put one 's construction on that for what it is worth, but that petition had a remarkable impact upon California. 
The other matter to note is the matter of the escalating debate in West Germany against nuclear power, but if one reads the small print carefully one comes to a couple of pertinent observations. For the first time the West German Government has started talking about the country's prospects without nuclear energy. It drew a gloomy picture of unemployment rising to 8 per cent by 1980 and growth reduced to a mere 1.5 per cent a year- not the sort of thing the good living burghers of prosperous Germany would readily accept. The other thing to note is that the trade union movement in Germany, because of an increase in the unemployment factor, is supporting nuclear energy. 
I have said before in this House and I repeat that regrettably it is energy that is going to determine policies and not the other way round. The world does face a uranium problem in the coming decades; there is no question about that. But, even more critical than that, the world faces an energy problem. Before we can reasonably decide whether or not we should export uranium, we should be aware of the world's energy position, particularly in Western Europe, Japan and- as recently revealed- in the United State of America. The information on world energy needs and supplies is becoming more available and more reliable as nations devote more and more attention to energy questions in the aftermath of the 1973 price hike. Last month's issue of the International Petroleum Encyclopaediawhich I commend to honourable members- contains a thorough examination of expected energy trends for the remainder of this century. Its authors assume that energy consumption will grow only modestly in developed countries, certainly at a rate lower than in recent times. Long term increases in oil demands are expected to average between 2.5 per cent and 4 per cent a year. These growth rates would be much lower than those of recent decades which were between 7 per cent and 8 per cent a year. 
The authors point out that despite all the proposals for alternative energy sources, including nuclear power, by 1985 more than 40 per cent of expected oil production outside the Middle East would have to come from reserves not yet discovered. Honourable members ought to note that. Whatever any honourable member may say in this chamber now or in the next 10 to 1 5 years, it will be a scramble for that resource that will dictate what energy input goes into various nations. The encyclopaedia's authors make the point that in the next 10 to 15 years it will be vital to develop all existing energy resources to their maximum potentiality, if shortages are to be avoided. There is no chance that alternatives can be devised sufficiently in that time to make a contribution or take up the slack. 
In the case of nuclear power, the authors expect that its contribution to the energy needs of the West will be about 15 per cent. This would clearly involve the construction of a large number of nuclear power stations in the next few years, bearing in mind the lengthy period involved in the design and the commissioning of such plants. The figure of 15 per cent of all energy needs by 1990 takes into account enormous amounts of other fuels. Oil and natural gas will already be in short supply by 1 990 and the use of coal will have to be expanded to near feasible limits. To increase further the contribution from coal, restraints would have to be lifted on massive strip mining of coal in the United States. This will force and flush out no end of environmentalists. New reserves of coal will need to be discovered. In addition, huge amounts of coal will almost certainly be required for conversion into petroleum or gas by the turn of the century. 
The conclusion to be drawn from the world energy outlook is that even with a greatly increased nuclear program, with reduced energy growth and with the greatest possible expansion in oil and gas production, the Western world will still face an energy deficit after 1990. As coal alone cannot fill this gap, there will be an enormous pressure to expand nuclear power production rapidly, particularly after 1980. 1 support my Party's policy; I am committed to it. But I want to put my attitude on the world energy question clearly on the line. Some idealists argue that the way to improve the quality of life is to renounce technology and all its works and to return to primitive simplicity. But realists ought to accept, I suggest, that improvements in the quality of life depend on and must be sustained by increases in economic output. Even quite modest assumptions about the world's economic growth point to a dependence on energy by the end of the century which can, in my opinion, be met sensibly in the interim, only by recourse to nuclear power. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 10 March 1977: 
1 ) Does the Government still intend to abolish the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority although industry groups have called for its retention. If so, why. 
In view of the findings of the Prices Justification Tribunal of excessive stevedoring and handling charges of the James Patrick group of companies, does the Government propose to regulate directly these charges to provide protection for exporters and importers. If not, why not. 
Will the Government consider converting the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority into the sole employer of waterfront labour to assist in rationalisation on the waterfront and also in the reduction of costs of exporters and importers. 
-Whilst I support the amendment to both Bills, I must confess that I do so with some sense of concern and reservation, particularly with regard to some of the matters raised by the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns).  I am not impressed with the transfer of many of the provisions in the Act, particularly the Life Insurance Act, to regulations. I would prefer them to remain subject to parliamentary scrutiny. However, I indicated earlier that there are a couple of matters dealing with clauses 28 and 113 that I want to raise during the Committee stage. I warn the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  in advance of my intention to do so. I was interested in some of the comments made by the honourable member for Lilley. I might say at the outset that we are dealing with an industry which in this country is as large as, if not larger than, the vehicle building industry and which has very important consequences whichever way we look at it. The honourable member made the observation that in Britain there are 2 industries, one good and one bad, the bad one being the shipbuilding industry, the inference from his analysis being that the good one is the insurance industry. 
I think there are some pretty cogent reasons why the insurance industry is rather well established in Britain so far as its invisible earnings are concerned. I think it is the largest industry in Great Britain in terms of invisible earnings. I think one of the reasons is that it is not subject to the same tax imposts as we have in this country with our rather constructive federal system. Apart from that, I commend to the honourable member a study of the recent rather voluminous amendments to the Acts in Britain in 1973. I must confess that until then the industry in that country was not all that good. I think the industry itself might have been all right, but the surveillance in Britain was not quite so good. Regrettably, the provisions were rather fragmented between the Insurance Act and the Companies Act. It was because of the collapse of companies in the insurance industry, such as the vehicle and general companies that the amendments came about. The lack of surveillance provisions in the British Act largely resulted, I think, in the collapse of vehicle and general companies in Great Britain and this had after effects in Australia also. 
They found in 1973, as undoubtedly we found, that both Acts had been overlooked and forgotten until a crisis stage was reached. It is one of the tragedies in this country that we pass Acts and then consider that we have finished our obligations. I suggest to the Minister that this is one industry where we should not be permitted to do that. It is an industry that should be subject constantly to surveillance. The other observation which the honourable member for Lilley made was with regard to workmen's compensation* compulsory third party and motor vehicle insurance. He knows as well as I do that it is a dictum of private enterprise that you socialise your deficits and capitalise your profits. This is what is termed in the insurance industry as 'the sink end of the market'. In nearly every State that deficit end of the market is being handed over to government insurance commissions. 
I would like briefly to make some constructive comments on some of the measures contained in the Bill. I think the honourable members for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  and Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  covered what I think is the necessity to liberalise some of the solvency provisions of the Act, so I do not intend to canvass that point. But one matter upon which I would like to pass some comments concerns stamp duty and fire brigade charges. As I understand it, Australia and New Zealand are the only countries that levy fire brigade charges on policy holders. Frankly, I think it is high time the procedure was updated as such charges ought to be taken from Consolidated Revenue. To do so would be more effective and efficient, and certainly more equitable. Above all, the States would have to justify the increases in costs if the charges were taken from Consolidated Revenue. At present there can be an increase in the levy with no attention at all being given to efficiency. Stamp duty is an unfair imposition on policy holders and I intend to deal with that when I come to clause 1 13. I think it ought to be understood throughout the length and breadth of this country that an impost such as the fire brigade levy is borne by the insured and not by the insurer. 
At the moment, in my State of South Australia at any rate, fire brigade levies constitute about 22 per cent of the premiums. I think it is time that that aspect was looked at constructively throughout Australia. The same thing could be said of stamp duty which is a source of income to the States but again, is an imposition that is borne by the insured not by the insurer. I have undertaken to cut down my time as much as possible so I would like to make only a couple of other quick observations. May I draw the attention of the Minister to the fact that I find it rather odd that the surveillance provisions, in terms of investment, will apply to life companies and not to general insurance companies. I find that a gross omission. I do not find anything in the Minister's second reading speech as to whether the Government will have the same surveillance over investments for general insurance companies as it will have over life companies. My analysis of the some 16 companies that have gone into liquidation is that their situation has been as a result of 2 things- managerial incompetence or investment incompetence. I think that is an area at which the Minister should look. 
The other matter which I raise briefly is that I agree wholeheartedly with the honourable member for Melbourne Ports in that I do not think the Administrative Appeals Tribunal is an appropriate tribunal to deal with appeals in this area. I think they are far better and more adequately catered for under a more independent tribunal. I turn to that part of the second reading speech of the Minister which deals with life insurance and I would like to put 2 questions to the Minister. The speech states: 
It is proposed to strengthen the supervision over registered life insurers. The Bill requires them to seek permission from the Life Insurance Commissioner before they commence a form of business other than life or general insurance. However, the Commissioner will not be able to refuse an insurer permission to enter non-insurance area unless he is satisfied that such entry would be to the detriment of existing or prospective policy holders. 
The question obviously to be asked is: What is the situation if the insurer is satisfied that it will not be to the detriment of policy holders? Will the decision of the Commissioner in this case be final and irrevocable? If not, what procedure will take place in that circumstance? The second part of the Minister's second reading speech states: 
The existing legislation provided that a life insurance company shall not invest directly or indirectly in another such company. 
The statement goes on. As I understand it, most investments by life office companies in particular have never reached the stage where they have felt obligated to undertake directorships. I want to deal briefly in the limited time I have available to the question of investments. Since I entered this place in 1970 I have tried to get 2 areas covered legislatively sufficiently to protect policy holders, whether of general or life insurance. One area is the need for greater surveillance over investments by insurance companies and the second is to have legislative reform in the area of competency of directors or actuaries attached to insurance companies. I suppose it is fair to say that experience overseas of policy holders has shown that poor management and speculative investment has cost policy owners very dearly in this country, the United Kingdom and the United States. As the honourable member for Melbourne Ports pointed out, the average return on investments to life companies is approximately 6.6 per cent. I suggest that is not good investment policy. It is a characteristic of life offices that their investment performance leaves a lot to be desired. Unfortunately it is not possible to demonstrate this by published statistical information. We may get that in some years to come. 
The type of inefficiency probably can be best indicated by examining the activities of life offices over the past years in 4 main areas of investment. I suggest that the Government ought to have a look at them. Those areas are: Public securities, fixed interest lending, ordinary shares and property. If we take those four together and analyse them the record does not stand up well at all. The Income Tax Act does not oblige life offices to invest 30 per cent of their assets in government or semi-government securities. It is correct to pursue a policy where such investments are long dated because the liabilities of the offices are of a long term nature. However, if it is anticipated that long term interest rates will rise proper investment management principles would indicate a shift from long dated to short dated stocks with a shift back to long dated stocks once the increase had been achieved. Whilst the nature of the Australian capital market precludes switching of the large amounts of stocks already held there is no reason why an office, when subscribing to a new government loan, should not restrict itself to the short end if it thinks those rates will rise. Over the last decade there has been a pattern of steady rise in interest rates. Yet except perhaps for a few exemptions in the last few years all offices appear to have invested automatically in long dated stock and have suffered a substantial fall in capital values as a consequence. 
I suggest that the following ought to be noted: In the case of fixed interest lending a significant consideration often has been whether granting of the loan will facilitate the writing of new life insurance business. I think that is worth repeating. In such cases loans have been made on terms less remunerative than in alternative situations available in the market place. As is explained elsewhere, far from being a compensating factor for this lower return the additional business so obtained is a further drain on the emerging profits of the office. How often have we witnessed that? Such sketchy information as is available about life office investments in ordinary shares indicates something of the propensity for buying at the top of the market and selling at the bottom. 
-I am delighted that the honourable member for Wakefield agrees with me. He has heard that view before, no doubt. Where it has been possible to compare the investment performances of funds managed by life offices with those managed by, say, a merchant bank, the latter 's performance is superior. I am delighted that the honourable member would concede that. Life office property investments have been characterised by a late and massive jump onto the band waggon signposted earlier by more enlightened investors. The appropriateness of property investment in the Australian climate should have been obvious to life offices 10 to 15 years ago. A steady program of property investment over that period, instead of the mad scramble of recent years, would have greatly benefited both the life offices' policyholders and the national economy as a whole. Surely nobody would disagree with that assessment. 
I turn to general insurance. This is the area about which I am very concerned. The nature of these companies' investment is somewhat different from that of life offices as their liabilities are of a much shorter term nature. However, their published earnings generally indicate a much lower return on assets than should be expected of the average, efficient investor. Much of this again would be due to the propensity to make loans on the basis of business connections rather than their intrinsic investment merits. One ought to have a look at some of the decisions of liquidators in this area to see just how true that is. The main cause for poor investment performance of both life and general offices alluded to is the calibre of people administering these policies. The explanation of this lies within the ways that offices are currently organised, and have been for many years. It is only fair to point out that the same weakness is currently inherent in all large financial institutions in Australia. For example, I cite the investment performance of those administering the Commonwealth Superannuation Fund. I am delighted to note that this is now in far better shape than most insurance companies so far as investments are concerned. 
Finally, I turn to the question of technical management, particularly of general insurance companies. The man in the street tends to believe that general insurance premiums are ascertained after high powered analysis of all statistics available relating to the risks of being an insurer. Whilst for some decades in Europe this has been true there has also been substantial research into the size of adequate reserves for general insurance companies, in Australia little use has been made indeed of acturial or other skilled mathematical or statistical advice by general insurance companies, although I know of one in New South Wales which has done this extensively and has paid handsome dividends to it. The failure of the management of the industry to utilise or perhaps even to be aware of the body of expert advice available regrettably, is characteristic of the general inefficiency of the industry. I turn briefly to the last matter with which I wish to deal before the Committee stages of the Bills; that is, the question of the provision dealing with fit and proper persons. Since the British Act was changed in 1973 I have tried to get a similar provision put into both Federal Acts. As recently as last week in relation to this matter I received a reply from the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  to question on notice No. 364. He replied: ( 1 )-(4) The Government is yet to be convinced that the highly controversial provisions contained in the United Kingdom insurance legislation in relation to the control of investments and oversight of the suitability of directors are necessary or appropriate in Australia. Insurance legislation is, however, kept under continuing review and I refer the honourable member to amendments recently introduced. 
The amendments that have been introduced since the 1 973 Act have been largely machinery. The 2 areas where insurance companies are most vulnerable are in managerial incompetence and bad investments. I do not know how many honourable members in this House have any conception- I noticed the remark made by the honourable member for Lilley before the suspension of the sitting for dinner- of what happens to policyholders in Australia following the liquidation of an insurance company. How many have gone into the Minister's office? How many have gone into the office of the honourable member for Lilley? I can tell honourable members that many have come into mine. Liquidation is a tragedy and a disaster. Any piece of legislation that can constructively overcome that sort of situation ought to be entertained and adopted in this Parliament. It was found in Great Britain that because of the very nature of the insurance industry different criteria applied in that industry from those applying to an ordinary company on the stock exchange. I do not know of any honourable member in this chamber who has any conception of what happened to many people between 1969 and 1973. Literally tens of thousands of people throughout the length and breadth of Australia suffered hardship, anxiety, breakdowns and bankruptcy because of the liquidation of insurance companies. There is no recourse or access at all to those people. An article in the  London Times  states: 
Fortunately only about 10 cases a year come up for review under the fit and proper persons criteria. And that, considering the fact that the department's 120 insurance staff are monitoring thousands of people in 800 registered insurance companies, is perhaps some source of comfort. The Department has no power to order the removal of an unfit person but as it has power to stop his company taking on a new business if he does not go voluntarily this amounts almost to the same thing. Most people served with notices that the Department considers them unfit go quietly, particularly if they are managers, when their company does not have to be informed of the official action against its servant. In the case of a chief executive or controller though the company does have to be informed. At all events, the Department of Trade stresses that it tries to preserve the utmost confidentiality. Such confidentiality, it is argued in Whitehall, would not be assured if the action were a judicial instead of an executive one. Someone who feels that he has been wrongfully dismissed can appeal to the courts for a ruling that the Department has acted  ultra vires- 
I wish to make 2 quick observations before I deal with section 1 13. 1 remind the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  that the consultative committee to which he made reference was a compromise between me and certain individuals rather than an in depth inquiry. The second point concerns the Law Reform Commission dealing with contracts. I believe that I gain some prestige by the fact that it was because of my efforts that that matter is before the Law Reform Commission. 
I turn now to section 1 13 of the Insurance Act. In his second reading speech the Minister said: 
Fifthly, it has become apparent that a considerable amount of insurance is being sent to unauthorised insurers overseas . . . which has not yet been proclaimed . . . 
I would like to be very specific and somewhat circumspect when dealing with this particular matter because it is important. I assume that when dealing with 'unauthorised insurers overseas' the Minister is referring to insurers overseas who are not authorised under this Act. The Minister will recall that during my speech on the last number of amendments to these Bills I raised the question of the irresponsible actions by overseas companies operating within the Australian market and the adverse effect that they would have on Australian companies. 
I make 3 observations. Firstly, section 1 13 has yet to be proclaimed. Secondly, it has been decided to allow exemptions from the prohibition for so-called flexibility purposes. Thirdly, the amendments make for more information on business transactions to overseas unauthorised markets. I have very strong reservations about the Government's proposed manipulation of this section of the Act. I believe that the section should be retained and its full force brought to bear to ensure that the maximum business is retained within the Australian market. As I understand it, if an insurance broker cannot on behalf of a client obtain an acceptable rate in this country, he may be obliged, and indeed is often obliged, to place it on the London, New York, Amsterdam or Switzerland market. That means placing that business with overseas insurers not authorised under the Australian Act. 
As I understand it also, unauthorised insurers are not prohibited from a slice of the market, subject to certain criteria. That authorisation should be granted, I believe, very sparingly. It should be granted only where cover is not obtainable within the Australian market, and that is where there is a shortage within the Australian market to enable it to underwrite a risk. It should not be used to underwrite, or rather to undercut, the Australian market and thereby create an unstable situation amongst authorised insurers who are obliged to comply with and meet the provisions of the Insurance Act and to pay their due proportion of income tax, stamp duty and fire brigade levies, which is largely the source of funds for fire brigade maintenance throughout Australia. The Minister ought to remember that when he applies this section of the Act. 
Other countries, in particular the United States, certain of the countries in the European Economic Community, South Africa and not the least Mexico- I ask the Minister to note this point- have seen fit to legislate to prevent plunder by overseas companies of their own indigenous markets. We ought to be doing exactly the same. This dispensation must be sparingly granted if for no other reason than to enable the maximisation, as far as it is practicable, of protection from exploitation of the Australian market by Australian companies. 
I raised in this Parliament very early the proposition that Australian companies ought to get a bigger slice of marine hull insurance. As a result of that and as a result of the actions of the former Labor Government, we got at least a proportion of the market. We went from almost ml to 20 per cent. I believe that a lot more can be done by this Government to galvanise the Australian market to capture a greater proportion of insurance business that we are losing rapidly to overseas markets day after day. 
The other factor which I think ought to be shed in this context is regrettably the stamp duty impost. We in this country do not seem to realise what a marked effect that impost has in forcing underwriting work on to the overseas market. As I said, much underwriting is placed overseas to obviate the stamp duty impost and the fire brigade levies. One cannot gauge precisely to what extent that occurs, but unquestionably those imposts represent a very large contributing factor. Again it depresses and it obviously creates additional burdens on Australian companies or companies authorised within the Australian market. 
I wish to raise another matter. Perhaps technically I should not raise it when dealing with section 113, but I raise it in connection with the final amendments to both Bills. I suggest to the Minister that it is well known throughout Australian insurance circles that Guardian Royal Exchange, which is a London based company, has for some time been cutting rates to an uneconomical level. If it continues its price premium cutting war, there will be one ultimate result: If Australian companies are forced to compete with that company on its terms some Australian companies could well face liquidation. For instance, recently a State insurance company in South Australia lost a large parcel of underwriting insurance with the State Bank of South Australia because it was undercut by that London company by as much as 50 per cent. 
Australian companies just cannot meet that competition. I am reliably informed also that in London, for instance, pressure is being placed on Guardian Royal Exchange in the insurance market to act more responsibly in this competitive field. 
I impress upon the Minister and upon the Government the fact that we ought to realise that Australian companies are underwriting in an extremely limited market and we ought to do what overseas countries do; we ought to structure our legislation to protect our own indigenous market. We have failed to do that. In the interests of market stability in this country, I ask the Minister to have my allegations thoroughly investigated with a view to ensuring that the irresponsible activities of Guardian Royal Exchange are minimised as far as possible. I conclude by impressing upon the Minister the proposition that if the Government intends to apply section 1 13 it ought to do so very sparingly if it wants to protect the Australian market. 
My question, which I address to the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, relates to the proposed national companies and securities legislation. Is it a fact that the agreement reached with State Ministers responsible for corporate affairs to establish a scheme to regulate this entire industry will do nothing more than institutionalise existing fraudulent and deceitful abuse and malpractice? Will the Minister call a conference of State and Territorial officials concerned with the administration, enforcement and prosecution of the laws dealing with the securities industry to flush out the weaknesses and deficiencies which are rife so that at least his attempt at national legislation may stand some chance of being efficient and effective? 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 8 March 1977: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to a report in the  Australian Financial Review  of 7 January 1977 relating to proposed airline operations of  Mr Gordon  Barton: if so. is the position as stated. 
Has  Sir Reginald  Ansett or Ansett Transport Industries made any representations to the Government or taken any other action to prevent  Mr Gordon  Barton or his companies from entering into interstate air cargo operations. 
As it could be said that the operation of the two airlines agreement is contrary to the spirit of the Trade Practices Act. does the Government propose to continue indefinitely the agreement. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 17 March 1977: 
1 ) ls it unnecessarily difficult under existing legislation to obtain civil or criminal redress for offences committed by controllers of companies: if so, will he introduce legislation to remedy these serious defects. 
2 ) In preparing any legislation on this matter, will he take into account the proposals of the New South Wales Government for legislation in this area. 
asked the Minister for National Resources, upon notice, on 9 March 1 977: 
1 ) Would high level exports of liquefied natural gas, e.g. 180 billion cubic metres, result in Australia's remaining gas reserves, as known at present, being insufficient to meet estimated domestic demands up to the year 2000, as suggested in the Australian Natural Gas Utilisation and Transportation Study. 
If so, will he ensure that export of natural gas limited to the level of 80 billion cubic metres as suggested in the study. 
Does his Department itself have the expertise and availability of information which would enable it to recommend the levels of liquefied natural gas which can be exported without detriment to Australia's interests over the new few decades. 
If so, why was the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation report commissioned. 
If not, what other information is available to him which would enable him to properly decide on questions of natural gas export. 
Will he give an assurance, before export permits are granted for North West Shelf gas, that sufficient reserves will be retained to ensure that total Australian demand for natural gas can be met, at least until the year 2000. 
asked the Minister for National Resources, upon notice, on 9 March 1 977: 
1 ) Has he had discussions with the New South Wales Government about the reservation of a site on the Kurnell Peninsula for an oil refinery, in line with the recommendations of the Fifth Report of the Royal Commission on Petroleum. 
Docs the Government accept the Commission's recommendation that Australia should retain refining selfsufficiency. 
If so, will the Government formulate a cohesive refinery policy with reasoned haste as is suggested by the Commission. 
Does the Government propose that imports of motor spirit beyond a critical level will not bc acceptable in the absence of proposals to add to Australian refining capacity. 
As the Commission suggests that there could be problems raising the capital necessary for any future refinery in Australia, will the Government initiate discussions with industry representatives to encourage a consortium or other arrangement of producers to build the new refinery Australia will need by 1985. 
asked the Minister for National Resources, upon notice, on 9 March 1 977: 
1 ) Will he accept the recommendation of the Royal Commission on Petroleum that the Government should not under-write any oil refinery in Central Australia. 
Will he initiate in the context of a national energy policy a study of the relative benefits of developing natural gas from the Mereenie fields as against the refinery proposal. 
asked the Minister for National Resources, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
1 ) In the interest of consumers, will he hold discussions with the oil industry with a view to changing the present ratio of premium/standard grade petrol consumption so that the cost of lead phase down proposals may be avoided while still ensuring that no more ambient lead enters the environment than is presently the case. 
Will he take steps to ensure that the design of petrol engines is compatible with any change in petroleum octane ratings. 
Does he intend to create a larger price differential between premium and standard grade petrol to effect changes in the sales ratio of premium/standard grade petrol. 
Will he inform himself of the comparative cost values of standard and premium grades of motor spirit revealed in an investigation by the Australian Consumers Association and reported in  Choice  magazine. 
asked the Minister for National Resources, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
1 ) Does the Government intend to take any action to increase the usage of liquefied petroleum gas within Australia, and maximise the benefits derived from liquefied petroleum gas exports, in line with the recommendations of the 6th Report of the Royal Commission on Petroleum. 
Has the use of liquefied petroleum gas in Commonwealth fleet vehicles been considered by any Government department. 
If not, will the Government consider this course of action in line with the Commission 's recommendations. 
As the Royal Commission has recommended that the principal areas in which liquefied petroleum gas should be used are Melbourne, Sydney and Adelaide, will he discuss with State energy Ministers from Victoria, New South Wales and South Australia and/or industry representatives, the problems of liquefied petroleum gas usage in those States. 
As widespread use of liquefied petroleum gas in motor vehicles would reduce the level of lead in the atmosphere and thereby reduce the cost of current lead phase down programs, will he give urgent attention to this matter. 
Has liquefied petroleum gas an import role in a national energy policy; if so, will he take steps to ensure that it is given a higher priority in the Government's management of Australia's natural resources. 
In particular, will he take action to limit the export of liquefied petroleum gas until the Government has assessed its future role in the Australian energy economy. 
asked the Minister for National Resources, upon notice, on 9 March 1 977: 
Will the report of the interdepartmental committee, which was established to examine the 4th Report of the Royal Commission on Petroleum, be tabled in Parliament. 
Has this Committee or a similar group been established to consider the 5 th and 6th Reports of the Commission. 
If not, what action will the Government take to implement the recommendations of the Royal Commision in respect of refining and liquefied petroleum gas. 
asked the Minister for National Resources, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
1 ) Will he take steps, in conjunction with the States, to establish and unify standards for liquefied petroleum gas quality, use and safety. 
Has the Government considered the adoption of an automotive propane specification such as the United States Natural Gas Processors Association Specification HD5; if not, will it do so. 
Will he examine the potential for the use of compressed natural gas and coal gas as alternative fuels for internal combustion engines. 
-The Administrative Appeals Tribunal Amendment Bill is a Bill to amend a piece of legislation for which the Labor Government takes credit. The AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Ellicott)  said in his second reading speech that plans are now well advanced to enable appeals to be taken to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal under the Social Services Act and that appeals will also be provided under a large number of Australian Capital Territory ordinances. The Attorney-General went on to say: 
It has become apparent that the Tribunal should have a different structure iritis to be equipped to hear appeals on a wide range of matters without making excessive demands on the services of presidential members at a judicial level. 
The Attorney-General then said at a later stage: 
The other provisions of the Bill that require special mention are those relating to the protection of information that ought not, in the public interest, be publicly disclosed in proceedings before the Tribunal or as a result of having been produced, in confidence, to the Tribunal. Section 36 of the principal Act empowers the Attorney-General to give a certificate that the disclosure of information concerning a specified matter or the disclosure of the contents of a document would be contrary to the public interest. 
The Attorney-General then went on to fix the criteria for the issuing of such certificates. I indicate to the Attorney-General that more is involved than social service appeals and appeals concerning A.C.T. ordinances. What worries me- I was denied the opportunity to speak about this subject when the Insurance Amendment Bill and the Life Insurance Amendment Bill were before this chamber during its last sitting- is that appeals will he from appeals under the Insurance Act of 1973 and the Life Insurance Act of 1945. The Opposition was denied an opportunity to raise those issues on that occasion. I think that it is therefore appropriate that I should do so at this time. 
In my time in this Parliament, at any rate, the Insurance Act and the Life Insurance Act have undergone considerable structural amendment and change. They have had to be amended and changed to meet the complexity of the insurance industry. As a consequence the appeals that will now be made to the Tribunal structured under this piece of legislation will test the competency and the capabilities of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal as it is now constituted. Because of the complexity of the insurance industry and the appeals that are going to lie from both general and life insurance, I question whether this is the appropriate Tribunal to deal with these sorts of appeals. I wanted to do so on the previous occasion and I now do so on this occasion. 
The second thing that concerns me, as I will touch on later, is the embargo on the findings of the Tribunal being made public. 
I understand that the jurisdiction of the Insurance Tribunal is to be transferred to this Tribunal under clause 24 of the Bill. The grounds of appeal in the Insurance Act have not been changed. An appeal lies against administrative decisions of either the Treasurer or the Commissioner for Insurance. These may be with respect to areas which are complex and demand a thorough knowledge of the industry. I wish to take the Attorney-General through sections of the Insurance Act because this will show conclusively the complexity that will weigh on the Tribunal. I still claim that the Tribunal is not structured to meet that complexity. That will take some time. The general Insurance Act gives rights of appeal to the Tribunal. 
I am referring to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. The Government has taken away appeals to a tribunal established under the Insurance Act and the Life Insurance Act. It has now decided that appeals shall lie under this Tribunal. I am setting out to show the complexity which the Tribunal will have to face. Section 27(3) of the Act concerns an appeal against a refusal to grant an authority. Section 30 (6) concerns an appeal against a refusal to admit certain assets against a determination. Section 31 (3) provides for an appeal against the direction of the Commissioner under section 31(2). 
I am referring to the Insurance Act. Formerly the right of appeal for the Life Insurance Act lay to the High Court of Australia. 
Is the Minister trying to upset me? 
-If the Minister would be kind enough to be attentive I shall try to explain it to him. Section 31(2) of the Act provides for bodies corporate lodging financial statements every year. If this is questioned an appeal will lie to this particular Tribunal. That is a complexity within itself. Section 33 (8) concerns an appeal against a determination by the Commissioner under section 33 (3). That is, an appeal will bind the Commissioner or the Treasurer on the value of assets. In that case an appeal will lie to this 
Tribunal. Section 36 is against the cancellation of authority to underwrite insurance. Section 41(3) applies to the apportionment of receipts. Section 46 (5) concerns the refusal to appoint or the revocation of appointment of an auditor to a particular insurance company. If the Commissioner or the Treasurer refuses that appointment, the company has the right to appeal to this Tribunal. Section 51 (2) provides for an appeal against a direction given not to deal with certain assets. I advise the Minister that that situation can become extremely complex. Section 62(3) provides for an appeal against a direction or variation of a direction. This section is not particularly important but, nonetheless, an appeal can lie from it. Section 93 (5)- a provision to which I objected when the original Bill was introduced-provides for Lloyd's or Lloyd's underwriter to show cause and by notice why Part VII of the Act should not cease to apply to Lloyd's. In short, this is a revocation. Section 105 (10) provides for an appeal against the direction or a variation of a direction given under this particular section. 
I have referred to the Insurance Act. Under all these sections in the Act appeals can lie to the Tribunal on 2 grounds. With regard to the Life Insurance Act new appeals by 1Tfe insurers and auditors by way of the Tribunal are granted in the following circumstances. In the case of auditors there is a ground for appeal under section 47 which concerns the refusal to approve an auditor. This is the same right as that which applies under the Insurance Act. The grounds for companies to appeal lie under section 16(1) (a) which concerns the refusal to allow a company to carry on some form of business other than life or general insurance. This is a new provision, and it could well be a contentious one. Section 19(1) concerns refusal to register a company. Section 23a refers to cancellation of registration. Section 39 (2) deals with refusal of permission to make a particular type of investment. This is a new provision, but no appeal by the life company will lie to this Tribunal. A company may appeal against a direction under section 40a to vary a statement as set out in the Act. Section 47 is the same as applies to auditors. It may appeal against rejection of a series of accounts under section 52 (3). An appeal may be made against a direction given under section 58 ( 1 ) to a company after an investigation. Reference was made m the second reading speech enabling appeals to be taken to the Tribunal under the Social Services Act and Australian Capital Territory ordinances. I wonder whether the Minister or the Department considered this point. Obviously they did in preparing the earlier Bill. I am suggesting to the Minister that because of the complexities of the industry I doubt very much whether this is the appropriate tribunal to deal with these appeals. 
Last October I put a whole series of questions to the Treasurer by way of letter for a variety of reasons. I received replies in January of this year. I shall read a couple of them. I asked: 
Why are the determinations of the Insurance Tribunal - 
As it was previously constituted- not made public once they have been advised to you, the Insurance Commissioner and the company concerned? 
The reply was: 
While an authority to carry on insurance business granted by the Insurance Tribunal is required under the Insurance Act to be notified in the  Gazette,  there is no such provision in relation to refusals of authority, and legal advice indicates that it would be impracticable for this information to be published in a similar way under existing legislation. 
Some 2 years ago the fact that a Victorian company had been refused authority to underwrite was not made public by the Commissioner or the Treasurer. The net result was that people were perambulating all around Victoria working on the assumption that the policies they held were in fact valid. I ask the Minister whether in a case of an appeal against irrevocation or the right to underwrite the decision is to be made public. If so, are the results of the inquiry to be labled or made public. I further asked the Minister: 
What are the names of the individuals who were directors, at the time of liquidation, of the 1 6 insurance companies subject to the Insurance (Deposits) Act 1932-73 which have been placed in liquidation . . . 
The answer was: 
Not available. This information is not required to be provided to the Treasurer under the Insurance (Deposits) Act 1932. 
I assumed, and I am right, that questions of liquidation have nothing to do with this legislation or the Tribunal, but the important point is that the identity of individuals and directors who may be implicated in an appeal to the Tribunal by a company that does not have the right to underwrite ought to be made public. 
I do not think sufficient consideration has been given to the workload that might lie on the Tribunal as the result of the growing complexity of the insurance industry and to the possibility of a growing number of appeals in a variety of areas in which the Tribunal is to be asked to make decisions. In the areas that are to be important in the insurance industry the public has a perfect right to know the activities, good or bad, of the company, its directors or auditors. Decisions by the Tribunal on these matters are of public importance. 
-The Opposition agrees with the amendments moved by the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  which are consequential and procedural amendments. But I raise again with the Attorney-General the matter I raised at the second reading stage. I ask him whether he recalls that I made a submission to the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch).  It is of some importance and I trust that this time we will understand one another on the issues involved. On 4 October I asked why determinations of the Insurance Tribunal are not made public once they have been advised to the Treasurer, the Insurance Commissioner and the company concerned. The response I received was as follows: 
While an authority to carry on insurance business granted by the Insurance Tribunal is required under the Insurance Act to be notified in the  Gazette - 
That was the position- there is no such provision in relation to refusals of authority, and legal advice indicates that it would be impracticable for this information to be published in a similar way under existing legislation. However, the proposed amendments to the Insurance Act which I foreshadowed earlier this year would provide, among other things, for the insertion of an appropriate provision in the Act to empower the Commissioner to publish notice of a refusal in the  Gazette  as soon as practicable after the expiration of the appeal period. It is proposed that the amending legislation will be introduced into Parliament during the 1 977 autumn sittings. 
The point I impress upon the Attorney-General is that in this case, irrespective of the amendments earlier carried in the Act, the transfer for appeal has now gone to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. The point I am making is simply that while there is an appeal against rejection of an authority to underwrite, the thing that concerns me is that if the appeal is upheld by the Tribunal against a company to authorise to underwrite insurance, that ought to be made public as quickly as possible after the decision. 
I am trying to convey the disastrous downstream effects which occurred over 2 years ago in Victoria where this was not undertaken. It has been mandatory on the Commissioner or the Tribunal to declare when authority has been granted but not when it has been rejected. The Attorney-General has more competence in this area than I have but I would like an assurance from him that if such an appeal is to lie in this particular case, immediate publication of its rejection is published either in a newspaper or in the  Gazette. 
I wish the matter was as simple as that. What has to be understood is that an insurance company could have untold thousands of people holding policies and the difficulty and hardship arise because, if the right to underwrite insurance is rejected, it is not granted an authority. Thousands of people could suffer hardship if they are not given the opportunity and time to make appropriate alternative arrangements. The situation in Victoria is critical and it could become more critical at any time. So I think that provision ought to be made in this particular case for it to be mandatory to make a public statement. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
Who are the members of (a) the working party on natural disaster insurance and (b) the technical committee which is providing advice to the working party, and which companies, organisations or Government departments do they represent. 
Have consultations with State Ministers regarding disaster mitigation taken place, as was recommended in the discussion paper on natural disaster insurance. 
When will the mitigation committee be established. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 17 March 1977: 
1 ) When will the joint report of Messrs F. G. Brennan, Q.C, and M. W. Burke of the Corporate Affairs Commission of New South Wales on the Alexander Barton group of companies be tabled in the Parliament. 
Can he say whether the joint report reveals any breaches of any laws of the Commonwealth or Territories of the Commonwealth. 
If so, what action does the Government propose to take in respect of any breaches. 
Is it proposed to introduce legislation to amend sections 67 of the Companies Ordinances of the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory to prevent socalled round robin transactions such as those revealed in the fourth report of the Corporate Affairs Commission of New South Wales on the Barton group of companies. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 24 February 1977: 
How many passenger motor vehicles fitted with 8- cylinder engines were sold in Australia in each year from 1960 to date. 
How many 8-cylinder engines were made in Australia in each of those years, and what was the rate of import duty on imported V8 engines. 
Has there been any increase since July 1976 in sales of vehicles with 8-cylinder engines which might be attributable to new emission control laws, as was suggested in an article by Peter Burden in the  National Times  of 31 January- 5 February 1977. 
Has the Government considered action to implement practical programs to discourage the use of vehicles with large engines and vehicle components which require the avoidable use of transportation fuel as was recommended by the Royal Commission on Petroleum in its 4th Report. 
In particular, does the Government plan to levy higher sales tax on large sized engines. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 10 March 1977: 
1 ) Can he say whether the United Kingdom Government has appointed an Insolvency Law Review Committee (a) to review the law and practice relating to insolvency, bankruptcy, liquidation and receiverships in England and Wales and to consider what reforms are necessary or desirable and (b) to examine the possibility of formulating a comprehensive insolvency system and the extent to which existing procedures might, with advantage, be harmonised and integrated. 
If so, and in view of the recent events in Australia concerning failure of stockbroking firms and their related corporations, will he consider the establishment of a committee with similar terms of reference to review the law relating to bankruptcy, liquidation and receiverships. 
Will the Law Reform Commission be holding discussions with the United Kingdom Committee in connection with its reference on consumer debtors. 
Are recent amendments to the bankruptcy laws of the United States of America being studied with a view to their implementation in Australia. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 24 March 1977: 
1 ) Further to Question No. 1064  (Hansard,  2 November 1976, page 2251), has the Special Committee of the Australian Government and State Offices been set up to consider legislation to regulate harsh and unconscionable contracts. 
If so, what are the names of the members of this committee, and what Department do they represent. 
When has this committee met. 
Can he say whether Professor Peden has completed his report to the New South Wales Government on harsh and unconscionable contracts. 
5 ) If so, is it being considered by the Joint Committee and when will it be tabled in the Parliament. 
Is the Joint Committee considering the legislation proposed by Attorney-General Enderby to regulate these contracts in the Australian Capital Territory. 
If so, what differences are proposed in the new uniform legislation. 
Can he say whether the New South Wales and South Australian Governments propose to introduce legislation based on the Peden Report regardless of the intentions of the other States or the Australian Government. 
If so, what legislation is to be introduced by the Australian Government and when will it be introduced. 
10) Can he say whether Professor Peden 's Report conflicts with the recommendations of the Swanson Committee; if so, in what way. 
What laws of the Australian States and Territories at present regulate harsh or unconscionable contracts. 
Can he say what laws of the United Kingdom at present regulate harsh and unconscionable contracts. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 24 March 1977: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to an interview with  Mr Rick  Dowling, broadcast on  The Week in Business  on the Australian Broadcasting Commission on Saturday, 19 March 1977. 
If so, are all the comments made by  Mr Dowling  accurate especially insofar as they relate to the application of the Bankruptcy Act to his affairs. 
Are there any grounds for saying that the trustee for Patrick Partners misled or otherwise did not fully inform the creditors of the firm of the effect of the Deeds of Arrangements under part 10 of the Bankruptcy Act. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 31 March 1977: 
In relation to the matter of the proposed companies and securities legislation, did he, prior to the recent accord reached with all State Ministers, request a reference of power from the States. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
1 ) As  President  Carter has proposed an increased public works program and greater social security benefits as well as tax cuts to revive the American economy, does he propose to hold discussions with the new  President  because of the obvious difference in approach to economic problems. 
Are any cuts in indirect and direct taxes likely in the next 6 months to induce greater public spending and greater investment by industry. 
Has devaluation prevented secondary industry reequipping with new plant and equipment, such as machine tools and the like, as most plant and equipment is imported from Europe and America and is now more expensive. 
What is the value of the plant and equipment, such as machine tools and the like, for secondary industry which has been (a) manufactured locally, and (b) imported in the last 5 years. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 17 March 1977: 
1 ) When will the report of the investigation by  Mr F.  G. Brennan, Q.C, into the following companies, incorporated or registered in the Australian Capital Territory, be tabled in the Parliament: (a) Inexco Ltd, (b) Intercontinental Credit Ltd, (c) Narimba Corporation Ltd, (d) Jetair Australia Ltd. (e) Landmark Corporation Ltd and (f) Spinifex Explorations Pty Ltd. 
What figures do the profit and loss accounts and balance sheets show for each of these companies for each year since their incorporation. 
What reports have been filed by these companies with the Registrar of Companies in the Australian Capital Territory since their incorporation. 
Are these companies registered as foreign corporations in any other State or Territory of the Commonwealth or of any country, either inside or outside the British Commonwealth; if not, do their trading activities reveal any breach of the law in this respect. 
Have these companies or the directors or officers thereof committed any other offence against the law of any Territory or State of the Commonwealth; if so, when and in what respect. 
Have any proceedings been brought against these companies or any officers or directors thereof; if so, under what legislative provisions have they been brought, and what was the outcome of these proceedings. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 19 April 1977: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to a report appearing in the  Australian Financial Review of  1 November 1976 to the effect that, as a result of the recommendations contained in paragraph 9.132 of the Swanson Committee Report on section 73 of the Trade Practices Act, a draft clause was inserted in the earlier draft of the Trade Practices Amendment Bill to make financial corporations jointly and severally liable with suppliers in linked credit transactions; if so, is the position as stated. 
) Did he receive any representations from the Australian Finance Conference or any financial corporation for removal of this draft clause, as such a clause is not to be found in the Trade Practices Amendment Bill 1977, which was introduced into the House on 8 December 1 976. 
How will the conflict with the provisions of the proposed consumer credit legislation based on the Molomby Report be overcome if the recommendations of the Swanson Committee regarding section 73 are not implemented. 
What recourse will consumers have if a supplier who is in breach of the obligations of Division 2 of Part V of the Trade Practices Act 1974, as amended, goes into liquidation or is made bankrupt, if the recommendations of the Swanson Committee in regard to section 73 are not implemented. 
What statistical and other surveys on prices were carried out by the Swanson Committee which influenced it to recommend that section 49 of the Trade Practices Act be repealed. 
Does the Government still propose to repeal section 49 of the Trade Practices Act even though it provides protection for small business. 
Has his attention been drawn to the recommendations of the United States House of Representatives  ad hoc  SubCommittee on Antitrust on the Robinson-Patman Act and related matters, that the Robinson-Patman Act, upon which section 49 of the Trade Practices Act is modelled, should not be repealed or amended or tampered with in any way; if so, have these recommendations been considered by the Government. 
Has the Government received any representations seeking the retention and strengthening of section 49 of the Trade Practices Act. 
Has the inter-departmental committee finished its consideration of applications of the Trade Practices Act to governmental activities; if so, when will its Report be tabled in the Parliament. 
Has his attention also been drawn to a report appearing in the  Australian Fiancial Review  of 2 1 January 1 977 to the effect that the Government proposes to remove all provisions regulating mergers and takeovers from the Trade Practices Act; if so, is the report correct and when will the legislation to give effect to this proposal be introduced into the Parliament. 
Will the removal of the anti-merger provisions of the Trade Practices Act affect competition and endanger small businesses competing with large conglomerate corporations. 
Will removal of the anti-merger provisions of the Trade Practices Act bring about an increase in prices in consumer goods and are any surveys proposed to test the effect of such proposals. 
Are any amendments to the Trade Practices Act proposed as a result of the decision of the High Court in the CLM Holdings Case, handed down on 10 February 1977. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 22 March 1977: 
1 ) Did the partners of Patrick Partners enter into deeds of arrangement pursuant to section 204 of the Bankruptcy Act instead of being made bankrupt. If so, did creditors suffer as a result of this action. 
Were transactions as preferences effected which could have been avoided if the partners had been made bankrupt instead of entering into deeds of arrangement. If so, what were they. 
Has there been any acquisition by the partners since the deeds of arrangement were executed which would have been made available to creditors if the partners had been made bankrupt. If so, what are the details. 
Is it proposed to amend Pan X of the Bankruptcy Act so that preferences may be avoided and acquired property included in property to be distributed to creditors when a deed of arrangement is executed. 
Is it proposed to amend Pan X of the Bankruptcy Act so as to give secured creditors the same rights at meetings as unsecured creditors where a deed of arrangement is proposed. 
Is it proposed to amend Pan X of the Bankruptcy Act so as to allow the registrar to conduct public examinations of the debtor who is the subject of the deed of arrangement. 
Is it proposed to amend Pan X of the Bankruptcy Act so as to deal with partners who become bankrupt. 
Is it proposed to prescribe the form of deeds of arrangement under Pan X of the Bankruptcy Act so that deeds will fully protect creditors. 
Is it proposed to amend Pan X of the Bankruptcy Act so that trustees are subject to greater control by the Court and creditors. 
Is it proposed to spell out more specifically the powers of a trustee to deal with a debtor's property between the time the trustee is asked to act and a deed of arrangement is entered into under Pan X of the Bankruptcy Act. 
1 1 ) Is there any evidence to indicate that the trustee for Patrick Partners has been guilty of any misfeasance or neglect under section 2 1 2 of the Bankruptcy Act in respect of dealings with Moby Investments Pty Ltd and any of its related companies or directors of such companies. 
What are the precise details of the preference given by Patrick Partners to Pioneer Concrete which could nave been avoided if they had been made bankrupt instead of entering into deeds of arrangement. 
What companies in the Patrick group are registered or incorporated in the Australian Capital Territory or Northern Territory. 
14) Is it proposed to investigate the affairs or any of these companies. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
Is it proposed to amend the Bills of Exchange Act, or any other relevant Act, or introduce legislation, so as to prevent so-called round robin transactions such as were revealed in the fourth report of the Corporate Affairs Commission of New South Wales on the Barton group of companies. 
Will any amendments be carried out in conjunction with a review of sections 67 of the Companies Ordinances of the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory which in effect prohibit loans for the purchase of a company's own shares. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 29 March 1977: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the 4th Report of the Royal Commission on Petroleum which stated that the relationship between oil companies and lessee dealers is unsatisfactory and calls for reform. 
If so, will he investigate the position of lessee petrol resellers under the Federal Government's jurisdiction with a view to regulating leases which are clearly unfair to the lessee. 
Will he also initiate discussions on this matter with State Attorneys-General so that uniformity of approach can be achieved. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
1 ) Has he received representations from Westinghouse Electric Corporation following notices which appeared in the  Gazelle  of 23 and 24 December 1976 pursuant to action under the Foreign Proceedings (Prohibition of Certain Evidence) Act 1976. If so, what was the nature of the representations. 
Can he say whether Westinghouse Electric Corporation has obtained a large number of documents by way  or  subpoena issued on Gulf Oil, which has shares in a particular Australian mining company. 
What orders does he intend to issue to afford protection under the provisions of the Act to individuals who may be subject to subpoenas in relation to the United States Grand Jury investigation and the Edison action. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
Can he say whether Grand Jury inquiries are at present being held in the United States of America, under that country s anti-trust laws, into price fixing by zinc and mineral sands producers and conference shipping lines. 
Does he propose to make orders under the Foreign Proceedings (Prohibition of Certain Evidence) Act 1976 in respect of any of the inquiries. 
What representations has the Government made to the United States Departments of Justice and State in respect of any of these inquiries. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 10 March 1977: 
1 ) Did he or officers of his Department have discussions with representatives of the Uranium Producers Forum and other uranium producers on Tuesday, 8 March 1977. 
If so, what was the nature of the discussions. 
Did the producers call for the establishment of a government marketing authority for uranium. 
Are any further orders proposed under the Foreign Proceedings (Prohibition of Certain Evidence) Act 1976. If so, in respect of what proceedings are they to be made. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 10 March 1977: 
1 ) Will the Credit Laws Committee of the Standing Committee of Attorneys-General be considering as part of its implementation of the Molomby Report (a) the Canadian 
Bill relating to disclosure of credit rating records introduced into the Canadian House of Commons on 22 October 1976, (b) the United States Fair Credit Billing Act, (c) the United States Fair Credit Opportunity Act, (d) the United States Depository Institutions Amendment Act, (e) the United States Consumer Leasing Act, (f) the United States Equal Credit Opportunity Act, (g) the United States Consumer Credit Protection Act, (h) the Manitoba Consumer Protection Act and (i) the Manitoba Personal Property Security Act. 
How many times has the Credit Laws Committee met, and on what dates have these meetings taken place. 
When is it expected that the work of the Credit Laws Committee will be completed. 
Can he say whether South Australia still proposes to retain its own consumer credit legislation so that there will be a lack of uniformity between that State and the rest of Australia. 
Has the Credit Laws Committee had discussions with the Australian Law Reform Commission in connection with its reference on privacy. If not, why not. 
Has the Credit Laws Committee considered the report of the Consumer Affairs Council of the Australian Capital Territory on credit reporting. If not, why not. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 10 March 1977: 
1 ) How many exemptions from registration have been granted under section 4 of the Money Lenders Ordinance of the Australian Capital Territory. 
To whom have these exemptions been granted, and upon what conditions have they been granted. 
How many applications for exemption have been refused. 
What were the grounds for refusal of the exemptions, and what are the names of the unsuccessful applicants. 
Was an exemption granted to Patrick-Intermarine (Aust.) Ltd on 12 July 1971  (Gazelle,  22 July 1971, page 4777). 
Is this company still trading following the collapse of Patrick Partners and their associated companies. 
Was Patrick Corporation Limited a shareholder in this company. 
) Who are the other shareholders in this company. 
Has this company been wound up. 
Is this company registered or incorporated in the A.C.T. 
What accounts and reports have been filed by this company in the A.C.T. since incorporation. 
Who have been the directors of this company since incorporation. 
Is this company an official dealer in the short term money market. 
14) Is this company registered pursuant to the  Financial Corporations Act  1974. 
Is it proposed to revoke or rescind the exemption order given to this company if the company has been wound up or is not otherwise trading. 
16) Is it a fact that, even though exemptions have been granted to merchant banks under section 4 of the Money Lenders Ordinance, they are still subject to sections 1 1 and 12 of the Ordinance which require specification of the total amount of interest or the rate of interest and a memorandum of the terms of loans to be given to borrowers. 
Could these provisions interfere with the dealings of merchant banks and are they more suited to consumer credit transactions. 
18) How many applications have been made under section 6 of the Money Lenders Ordinance of the A.C.T., when were these applications made, what was the result of each application and what are the names of the parties involved. 
What is the formula for calculation of a rebate of interest under section 8 of the Money Lenders Ordinance. 
Is the method of calculation of interest under section 7 different from the method of calculation of rebates under section 8; if so, what are the differences and are there any proposals to make these provisions uniform. 
How many persons are registered as money lenders under section 9 of the Ordinance. 
What are the names, addresses and business names of all registered money lenders. 
How many prosecutions have been brought under section 14 of the Ordinance. 
Against whom have prosecutions been brought, when were they brought, and what was the outcome of each prosecution. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 10 March 1977: 
Are any delays occurring in the Family Court in respect of matters listed for hearing. 
How many days on an average must pass between the day a case is listed and the day upon which a matter comes on for hearing in each registry of the Family Court. 
Does he propose to use Masters instead of Judges of the Family Court to clear the backlog of listed cases. 
Are any new Judges to be appointed to the Family Court before the referendum on retiring ages for Federal Judges. 
What progress has been made in negotiations with the States over maintenance and matrimonial property legislation and a referral of these powers to the Australian Government. 
How many matters are listed for hearing in each registry of the Family Court and State courts exercising Federal jurisdiction and under what sections of the Family Law Act is relief sought in each of these matters. 
How many Judges are there of the Family Court, and what was the date of the appointment of each. 
How many matters have come before each Judge on each sitting day of the Family Court since it opened. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 10 March 1 977: 
1 ) What discussions have taken place with the States concerning the dismantling of the Australian Legal Aid Office and establishment of State Legal Aid Commissions. 
Are negotiations with the State of Queensland at an advanced stage. 
Is it a fact that representatives of the Council of Australian Government Employee Organisations were excluded from discussions relating to the Legal Aid Office between the Attorney-General and South Australian officials even though the South Australian officials had no objection to their presence. 
What safeguards are being provided for permanent officers of the Commonwealth Public Service whose positions are to be transferred to the States as part of the transfer of the Legal Aid Office. 
Is the Council of Australian Government Employee Organisations involved in all stages of negotiations with the States. If not, why not. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 10 March 1977: 
1 ) What is causing the delays in the availability of new legislation including regulations. 
Have the staff ceilings imposed on his Department delayed proof reading of new Bills, Acts, regulations and instruments. 
Have any complaints been received by him or his Department about delays in the availability of new legislation and related documents. If so, how many, and when was each complaint received. 
Are any delays occurring at the Government Printing Office in the provision of new legislation. 
5 ) Is there to be any improvement in the provision of new Bills, Acts, regulations and instruments, especially through the State offices of the Australian Government Publishing Service. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 10 March 1977: 
What moneys have been paid by the AttorneyGeneral into the Testamentary and Trust Fund since section 28 of the Trustee Companies Ordinance of the Australian Capita] Territory came into force. 
When were each of these payments made, and what were the amounts. 
What statements have been delivered to the AttorneyGeneral by trustee companies giving details of unclaimed moneys since section 28 of the ordinance came into force. 
What unclaimed moneys have been paid to the Attorney-General by trustee companies pursuant to section 28 of the ordinance. 
Have any trustee companies ever been prosecuted for failure to comply with section 28 of the ordinance. If so, which companies and what penalty was imposed. 
Have any persons received payment of moneys pursuant to section 29 of the Trustee Companies Ordinance. If so, when, and what was the amount. 
Has the Attorney-General ever applied for an order of account pursuant to section 30 of the Trustee Companies Ordinance. If so, when, and what were the circumstances. 
What are the details contained in the declarations lodged in January 1977 by each of the companies specified in the first schedule of the Trustee Companies Ordinance pursuant to section 3 1 of the ordinance. 
As there is a Public Trustee to be established in the Australian Capital Territory, when will he take office and will his office succeed that of the Curator of Deceased Estates. 
10) Is there to be any review of the trustee company legislation in the Australian Capital Territory. If so, what is the purpose and aim of the review. 
Is it proposed that the Trustee Act of New South Wales will continue to apply in the Australian Capital Territory pursuant to the provisions of the Trustee Companies Ordinance. 
12 ) Are the Lunacy Act and Inebriates Act of New South Wales to continue to apply in the Australian Capital Territory; if so, why. 
Will the Public Trustee of the Australian Capital Territory administer the affairs of the mentally infirm residing in institutions in New South Wales having regard to the provisions of the Insane Persons and Inebriates (Committal and Detention) Ordinance and Mental Health Ordinance. 
What legislation regulates trustees generally and trustee companies in the Northern Territory. 
Is any review of trustee legislation in the Northern Territory under way or proposed. If not, why not. 
Will he consider a reference to the Law Reform Commission of the law of trustees including trustee companies, especially with respect to powers of investment. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 10 March 1977: 
1 ) What proposals are there for implementing the 2nd main report of the Henderson Poverty Inquiry relating to Law and Poverty. 
What discussions have taken place with (a) the Department of Social Security and (b) the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs about implementation of the report. 
Is it proposed to establish an interdepartmental committee to consider and implement the report. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 10 March 1977: 
1 ) Is  Mr Keith  Gale, a director of the failed Gollin Holdings Ltd, also a member of the board of the Australia-Japan Trade Law Foundation; is so, from what date has he held this office. 
Has the Government granted the sum of $5,500 to the Foundation in each of the last 3 financial years. 
If so, how has the Foundation expended the moneys which have been granted to it, and has it provided details to the Attorney-General's Department of this expenditure in accordance with the provisions of the Audit Act. 
Has the Attorney-General at any time been a member of the board of the Foundation; if so, when. 
What public servants have been or are members of the board of the Foundation and what was the period of office of each. 
Is  Mr Gale  to continue as a member of the board of the Foundation. 
What remuneration has  Mr Gale  received as a member of the board of the Foundation. 
What are the names of all members of the board of the Foundation since its incorporation, and when has each held office. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 17 March 1977: 
1 ) When will the review of the Secret Commissions Act and related legislation which was commenced in May 1976 be completed. 
Will a report of the review be tabled in the Parliament. 
Have consultations taken place with the Department of Industry and Commerce as pan of the review as that Department administers the Secret Commissions Act. 
Did the Minister for Industry and Commerce or his Department ask the Attorney-General 's Department to conduct the review of the Secret Commissions Act. 
Did the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations establish an inter-governmental group to prepare an agreement to prevent bribery and corrupt practices in international commercial transactions in August 1976. 
If so, is Australia a member of this inter-governmental group or has it attended any of its meetings as an observer. 
How many times and on what dates has this intergovernmental group met. 
Has Australia been represented at all or any of these meetings; if so, which meetings. 
What has occurred at each of these meetings, and when is it likely that the proposed agreement will be finalised. 
Can he say whether the United States Government supports the proposed agreement. 
What is the attitude of the Australian Government to the agreement. 
Can he say whether any legislation has been introduced in the United States Congress to eliminate corrupt, practices in business dealings with governments. If so, has this legislation come into force and what is its effect. 
Was Australia represented as an observer at the conference of criminological research institutes, convened in Strasbourg in November 1976 by the Council of Europe, which considered economic crime. 
14) Will the recommendations of this conference be considered with a view to the introduction of legislation to provide greater regulation of economic crime in Australia. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 17 March 1977: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to a report in the  Australian Financial Review  of 28 February 1977 that the United States Department of Justice has asked the Australian Government for a meeting to discuss Australia's refusal to co-operate with its inquiry into alleged uranium price fixing. If so, is the report accurate. 
Has the Australian Government yet responded to any request from the Department of Justice. If not, why not. 
Has the Organisation for Economic and Co-operative Development prepared guidelines on regulation of restrictive business practices which are supported by the United States Government. 
If so, do these guidelines entail recognition of foreign legislation regulating restrictive business practices. 
What is the Australian Government's attitude to the guidelines prepared by the Organisation and does it conflict with that or the United States Government. 
Is the Australian Government proposing to re-open discussions with the United States Government with a view to effecting a treaty of mutual co-operation relating to restrictive business practices and anti-trust activities referred to in his answer to question No. 1693  (Hansard,  9 December 1976, page 3708). 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 22 March 1977: 
1 ) Has the Law Council of Australia indicated to the Government that it believes that the Federal Government should still be involved in provision of legal aid services. If so, will he table any letters or other documents relating to this for the information of members. If not, why not. 
Was a report prepared by the Director of the Australian Legal Aid Office on Federal Legal Aid in Australia which was presented as a paper at the Colloquium on Legal Aid held in London in 1976. If so, when will this paper be tabled in the Parliament. 
3) If the paper is not to be tabled, what is the reason. 
Has the Government considered the establishment of a body similar to the American Federal Legal Services Corporation to provide legal aid in Australia, as proposed by Attorney-General Enderby, which is both well founded and has independence from the Government service instead of establishing legal commissions in each State. If not, why not. 
5 ) Can he say whether President Carter has indicated his support for the Legal Service Corporation so that every citzen has an equal access to justice. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 22 July 1977: 
Has his attention been drawn to the Uniform Class Actions Act or Rule approved by the United States National Conference of Commissioners on Uniform State Laws at its annual meeting in Atlanta in 1 976. 
If so, is this draft legislative proposal being considered by the Law Reform Commission in connection with its reference on class actions. 
Has his attention also been drawn to the recent American Supreme Court cases of  Zaha v. International Paper Co.  414 U.S. 291 (1973) and  Eisen  v.  Carlisle and Jacquelin  4 1 7 U.S. 1 56 ( 1 974). 
If so, can he say whether the effect of these cases is to severely limit the availability of class actions in United States Federal Courts, causing class litigants to turn to the State Courts for group relief. 
Are the implications of these United States cases also being considered by the Law Reform Commission. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 24 March 1977: 
I ) Has his attention been drawn to the remarks of  Mr John  Llewellyn of the Australian Finance Conference concerning reported class actions appearing in the  Age  of 22 March 1977. 
If so, have these remarks been referred to the Law Reform Commission for consideration in connection with its reference on class actions. 
Has the Australian Finance Conference or any finance company or any person made representations to the Australian Government, any of its Ministers or departmental officers seeking withdrawal of the reference on class actions or non-implementation of the forthcoming recommendations of the Law Reform Commission. 
Has Judge White's Report to the South Australian Government on consumer legislation been referred to the Law Reform Commission insofar as it refers to class action. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 24 March 1977: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the report in the Brisbane  Sunday Mail  of 6 March 1 977 of remarks made by  Mr Lickiss,  the Queensland Minister for Justice. 
If so, have talks taken place with the Australian Government regarding a take-over of the Australian Legal Aid Office by the Queensland Government. 
Does the Australian Government want the States to take over the responsibility for both the Family Law Court and the Australian Legal Aid Office. 
Has his attention also been drawn to an article entitled 'The end of legal aid' appearing in the APSA  Review  February/March 1977. 
If so, are the discussions held with the Council of Australian Government Employee Organisations on 20 December 1976 accurately reported; if not, what is the position. 
Has his attention also been drawn to the letter from the Victorian Attorney-General published in the  Age  of 19 March 1977 concerning legal aid. 
If so, what is the precise state of negotiations with the Victorian Government over legal aid as it is still proposed to establish a State Legal Aid Commission in Victoria. 
Has his attention also been drawn to the report in the  Age  of 22 March 1 977 of remarks by  Mr Justice  Emery concerning delays in the Family Court. 
If so, is the report correct and are the figures of cases awaiting hearing accurate; if not, what are the correct figures. 
10) What action is being taken to remove these delays. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 29 March 1 977: 
In relation to the  Foreign Proceedings (Prohibition of Certain Evidence) Act  1976, is it proposed to introduce any legislation to replace the  Imperial Foreign Tribunal Evidence Act  18S6 and  Evidence by Commission Act  18S9 as has occurred recently in the United Kingdom. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 26 April 1977: 
1 ) Will any increase in duty on imported dies increase the cost of home building which the Government is so anxious to avoid. 
Has his attention been drawn to the adverse repercussions to the building industry being caused by the obvious drawn-out period encompassed by the Temporary Assistance Authority inquiry and its deleterious effect on the housing industry in general. 
-I direct my question to the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs. With the abductions of Australian children overseas annually running at an exceedingly high rate, will the Minister advise the result of the undertaking of the Minister for Foreign Affairs to carry out an urgent investigation with a view to preventing these abductions and the anguish caused to Australian parents? 
-In rising to speak in the grievance debate, I want to raise the issue of corporate crime and punishment, or rather lack of punishment. I should like to look at the problem of protecting the public and other traders against the actions of fraudulent directors and other officers of companies. The telling need for this protection was cogently exposed in an article by Graham Downie in the  Canberra Times  on 6 December 1976. He indicated that the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs had under consideration legislation which would provide for new offences and stricter penalties for dishonest or reckless com- pany directors. The article also mentioned that legislation of this type was introduced in Victoria some 10 years ago. As I see it, amendments to the Victorian Companies Act to deal with delinquent company officers were introduced by the Victorian Government as far back as 1966 by what was termed the defaulting officer provisions. Those provisions authorise judicial examination of officers or failed or failing companies. They also provide that it is an offence for an officer or former officer of a company, and that includes directors, to fail to disclose certain information relevant to the company's affairs, to fail to deliver or to conceal or destroy books of a company, to remove, conceal or dispose of company property, to falsify the company's books, to obtain credit by fraud or false representation, and to contract unpayable debts. It is remarkable that the legislation further provides that such offences are punishable by 2 years imprisonment or a fine of up to $5,000. In addition, the court may order that the fraudulent company director be personally liable without limit where he has carried on business in order to defraud or has contracted debts knowing that they will not be paid. The legislation also provides that negligent officers can be declared personally liable for damage caused by their careless or imprudent control of the company. 
I suggest that that sort of provision badly needs to be included in the forthcoming companies and securities industry legislation. It is a disgrace that such provisions should have been introduced more than a decade ago in Victoria while a similar protection is still not available to the citizens of the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory under the respective companies ordinances. I suggest that not only this Government is vulnerable in regard to such negligence but so also was the Labor Government. The  Canberra Times  article to which I referred earlier said that the Government had under consideration proposals for defaulting officer provisions. But how long will the corporate crooks and fraudulent manipulators be able to get away with such fraudulent practices before the Government enacts this very basic form of protection for citizens? 
The present penalties and deterrents to dishonest activities by the controllers of companies are simply blatantly insufficient.  Mr Downie  goes on to cite one example of a company director who was fined $600 when his company had lost $250,000 of shareholders' funds within a period of 6 months. This situation, to put it mildly, is ludicrous. If the director had robbed a bank of that amount, he probably would have been sent to prison for 20 years. It seems to me that a drastic review of the penal provisions of company legislation is called for and is long overdue. The 
Tories of this Parliament never have any compunction about introducing penal provisions to strangle the trade union movement. But there is a reluctance on the Government side to introduce corresponding penal provisions into legislation covering the operations of directors who fraudulently misappropriate shareholders' funds. 
The courts which adjudicate on these matters seem to have their priorities all wrong. Too often we hear of corporate crooks acquitted in the face of strong evidence on what appears to be a technicality. If they are convicted, they are let off with a fine while persons who have committed what are minor offences by comparison are sent to prison. I suggest that the prospect of a jail term is particularly repugnant to the white collar criminal who sees himself as respectable. There is a need for a complete overhaul of the penal provisions of the companies legislation to ensure that fraudulent directors do not escape with trifling fines but get their just desserts. 
I was rather concerned and I think that everybody in the community ought to have been concerned with the collapse of Patrick Partners. Throughout this country over the last 3 or 4 months regrettably there has been a whole catalogue of collapsed companies. I suppose that it started off initially with the collapse of the Barton group of companies and the catalogue grew with the collapse of Patrick Partners and Gollins and Co. It is regrettable that we have only one copy of the Masterman report in the Parliamentary Library. The honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam)  and I have tried repeatedly to get a copy of that document. I have placed on notice today to the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  what is, if you like, nothing more than a catalogue of the recommendations by Masterman on the need to cover the gap that has been exposed because of the failure of Patrick Partners. I suggest that all these recommendations are crucial and necessary to be incorporated in the uniform companies legislation when it is brought into the Parliament. 
The other matter that I raised in March of this year with the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs was the regrettable situation that faced creditors when a stockbroking firm went into liquidation. I am pleased to have received a letter from the Minister dated 14 May 1977 which I would like to read into the  Hansard  record. The letter reads as follows: 
Dear  Mr Jacobi, 
On 24 March 1977 you raised with me in the House of Representatives the question of protecting creditors from the appointment of trustees in the bankruptcy of a stockbroking partnership who have 'a rapport with and a sympathy towards the members of the partnership'. 
The appointment of a trustee in a bankruptcy or in a proceeding under Part X of the Bankruptcy Act is a matter which the creditors themselves resolve upon. The person appointed as a trustee must be a person who has been registered under the Act as a person qualified to act as a trustee. 
It frequently happens, more particularly in proceedings under Part X, that in small and uncomplicated matters it is the accountant who has been active in the financial affairs of the debtor who can more effectively wind up its affairs. For the sake of this type of proceeding it is considered that there should not be an outright ban excluding a debtor's accountant or auditor, who also happens to be a registered trustee, from the right to be the trustee of the debtor's estate in a proceeding under the Bankruptcy Act. 
In the case of a bankruptcy, the Act provides for any creditor to lodge with the Court an objection to the appointment of a person as the trustee of an estate if his connection with or relation to the bankrupt, his estate or a particular creditor is likely to make it difficult for him to act with impartiality. 
This provision does not at present apply to proceedings under Part X of the Act. However, consideration is being given as to whether or not the Act should be amended to extend the provision to Part X. 
I sincerely trust that that necessary amendment will be forthcoming as quickly as possible. 
I want to confine myself to section 73 of the Act, which applies at present, as I understand it, where a corporation or owner enters into a contract for the supply of goods to a consumer by way of lease, hire or hire purchase, and the antecedent negotiations regarding the contract were conducted with the consumer by or on behalf of another body corporate, most being related to the owner. If, however, that other corporation supplied the goods or caused them to be supplied to the owner and the consumer suffers loss or damage due to a breach of one or more of the implied conditions, the owner or finance company is not under any liability to the consumer by reason of the breaches of the implied conditions. 
I want to rely heavily on an excellent article in the  Australian Business Law Review  by Harold Luntz. He pointed out that a consumer may enter into a hire purchase contract in respect of a new motor vehicle and in the majority of cases the hire purchase contract is not made with the car dealer but with the finance company when the dealer sells the car. In this case, assuming that all the requirements of the section are met, the finance company is not liable to damages for a breach of an implied condition but the dealer is liable. That is, the consumer may recover the amount of his loss or damage by action in a court against the dealer. It is arguable I suppose, that although the consumer may not recover damages from the owner he may still, if that right has not been lost, terminate the contract for breach of condition and incidentally recover payments already made. It is clear from that case that the dealer should be liable because the consumer negotiates with him and relies on his reputation. It is not too clear why the owner or the finance company should not also be sued for damages. 
In a case where the car dealer becomes insolvent, I ask the Minister what would be the position of the consumer? Action against the dealer would be useless, and yet the consumer has no right of action against the finance company under Division 2 of the Act. That is utterly ludicrous. To resolve this inequity, the Swanson Committee of Inquiry into the Trade Practices Act, which was set up by this Government, recommended in line with the recommendations of the Molomby Committee that the consumer be able to proceed against the financier, provided that he has already proceeded against the supplier, and that the consumer be entitled to recover any judgment from the financier to the extent that he has not recovered from the supplier. As I understand it, no mention was made in the Minister's statement of whether that proposal had been adopted. 
Luntz went on to point out that it appeared anomalous that finance companies should bear primary responsibility for defects in goods which they do not offer for sale, handle, see or even examine. Hence finance companies have felt justified in including in their hire purchase or leasing contracts with consumers, clauses exempting themselves from all liability for defects in goods. Lord Diplock had this to say on that aspect: 
The answer to this in part is that the finance houses cannot eat their cake and have it too. If they elect to carry on in business entering into contracts of chattel hiring instead of attending to the area of money-lending and contracts of that nature, secured by chattel mortgages, then their legal rights will be judged by the terms of the agreements they enter into and by the contract law applicable to contracts of that form. 
It should be noted that it is very often the retailer dealer who introduces the buying public to a finance house and not to a bank, where incidentally one finds that the personal loan rates are distinctly cheaper. Furthermore, as indicated by Professor Rogerson's report and in the Molomby report, finance houses pay commission to dealers for the consumers introduced. Finance companies provide dealers with stocks of standard type forms through which a direct link can be established with the finance company- hence the term 'link' or connection to supplier. Thus it will be seen that although the sale and financing aspects of hire purchase or leasing may be separable, the relationship between dealer and financier may cause a transaction such as a motor vehicle purchase to take the form of a joint venture. Therefore the question again arises of the linked supplier as defined in the Molomby report. 
Another question which arises is the extent of liability by a finance company linked to a dealer selling defective goods. This problem was overcome to some extent in South Australia by the Consumer Transactions Act, which was passed in that State in 1972. The Government has not as yet given consumers the ability to redress finance companies over defects in goods let to the consumer on hire purchase or lease. Section 73 as it stands expects the consumer, as I understand it, to continue paying the finance company for defective goods while at the same time he may be instituting legal action against a dealer. Furthermore, if the dealer is not a corporation and the transaction was not an interstate one, and I should like the Minister's response to this, the imposition of liability on the dealer would be completely negated and clearly  ultra vires  the power of this Parliament. 
Whilst it appears that finance companies have accepted with some reservations responsibility to the consumer under hire purchase contract for breach of the implied conditions that they will be able to pass property to him, it is difficult to see why finance companies should have adopted this inconsistent attitude as they are hardly in a better position to investigate title than to discover defects in goods and accept the financiers liability and the liability of the financial institution for misrepresentation about the goods made by a dealer. I think it is astonishing that the Minister has not introduced the appropriate changes to the Trade Practices Act to place responsibility on the shoulders of his Party's financial backersthat is the financiers- and to block these iniquitous loopholes. That is what they are. 
I should point out that these provisions have been part of the United Kingdom Hire Purchase Act since 1965 and the Misrepresentations Act in the United Kingdom since 1 967. That is, finance companies in England have borne this responsibility for many years in contrast to what has happened in this country. Unless the Government is prepared to reconsider its attitude on this provision the Minister appears to be more interested, I would think, in protecting the profits of Finance Corporation of Australia Ltd and Commercial and General Acceptance Ltd than in the rights of the Australian public. I wanted to put a question to him - 
-I do not think it is. I wanted to put a question to the Minister the other day. I am rather fearful of doing that lately. But let me put this to him: Will the Minister reconsider his attitude on the need to amend section 73 of the Trade Practices Act in order to ensure that consumers can proceed against credit providers for liability under that Act in respect of defective goods supplied on credit where the supplier of the goods is insolvent or for some other reason is unable to satisfy that liability and there is a business link between the supplier of the goods and the credit provider? 
In the few minutes left to me, let me say this to the Minister: I personally think that one of the basic reasons for the whole of this legislation is the very structure in society of commerce, trade and business with monopoly collusive practices. We need restrictive trade practices legislation like the U.S. Robinson-Patman Act, and like what is suggested in the Molomby report, the Swanson report and Professor Rogerson's report. Why is this? It is because there is an insidious, almost inevitable growth in monopoly, mainly, I suppose, because of the extension of the economies of scale in society. We cannot avoid that. But this legislation, in my view, is clearly predicated to protect bigness and not predicated on the 2 cardinal principles that this legislation ought to reflect. That is consumer protection and competition. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 20 April 1977: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to a report headed 'Corporate Crooks may face summary justice ' appearing on page 2 of the  Sydney Morning Herald  of Wednesday, 30 March 1977. 
If so, does he have under consideration similar proposals to those of the New South Wales Attorney-General for persons accused of corporate crimes to be tried before a Supreme Court judge sitting alone. 
Will similar provisions be included in the companies and securities legislation which he proposes to bring before this Parliament. 
Will he give an assurance that the Federal Government will strongly urge acceptance of these provisions by the States. 
What will be the effect if the Commonwealth legislation does not contain provision for summary trials for corporate criminals but such a system is operative in New South Wales. 
-The release of the Government's safeguards policy and the second Ranger uranium inquiry report have enabled the Parliament to discuss in depth the conditions under which Australian uranium is to be mined and whether it is to be exported. In my view the issues have been largely oversimplified and polarised by the minority groups which are emotionally or financially involved so that the Australian public, in effect, has been asked to choose between 2 extremes- unlimited nuclear power for the world or bans on uranium mining. In my view, this type of choice is neither necessary or helpful, nor does it provide anywhere near the best solution. 
The first Ranger report expressed the view that total renunciation of the intention to supply uranium is undesirable. The commissioners simply could not convince themselves that the serious problem of nuclear weapons proliferation could be assisted materially by leaving Australian uranium permanently in the ground. In spite of this, there are still some who believe that uranium bans will help to prevent the spread of nuclear weapons and that the world must now give up the option of nuclear power. It is seriously proposed in some quarters that future shortages of oil and gas in this century can be met entirely by the application of solar power and energy conservation alone. I must confess that I do not share that view. 
The turning point in the Australian debate has been the recent announcement of  President  Carter's nuclear energy policy. It should be made clear to Australians that this policy in effect means firstly, nuclear power will not be abolished world-wide; secondly, the demand for yellowcake will increase because of restrictions on United States fast breeder reactors and reprocessing plants. This means to other countries an increased input of about 45 per cent; thirdly, if recycling of plutonium and uranium is reduced, ample enrichment facilities will be needed; and fourthly, a system of international waste disposal centres probably will be required. I think that is inevitable. An important assumption of the new American policy is that the majority of world uranium resources is held and can be controlled conjointly by Australia, Canada and the United States. A moratorium on Australian uranium exports would isolate Australia from the world councils. It would encourage the proliferation of fast breeder reactors and reprocessing plants and would lead to accelerated uranium exploration and development all over the world. It has a great potential for maximising the effectiveness of nuclear safeguards. I find it rather odd that there was hardly any notice taken in Australia of the results of a conference on the transfer of nuclear technology at Persepolis in late April. A number of points were made at the conference, and among them were the following: 
The essential point is that most countries look upon nuclear power as the only route to energy and independence. For those countries which do not have large deposits of uranium this independence will come only with the breeder reactor. The reprocessing or further processing of isotopes is essential to the operation of the breeder, no matter what the cost. Hence any suggestion that reprocessing and recycling are unacceptable strikes at the very root of this motivation for adopting nuclear power, and naturally is reviewed with alarm. 
Although President Carter has concluded that the United States can afford to defer the breeder, many other countries cannot afford such a course. They view the breeder as an imminent reality and this view is supported by the rapid progress in liquid metal fast breeder reactor development in Europe. They want to make firm plans for a nuclear future now. The national investment required to establish a nuclear breeder capability is far too large a development to be made if its ultimate objective is in doubt. 
Other points were: 
Many feel that the restriction of reprocessing is not an effective deterrent to nuclear weapons proliferation. This leads to two concerns: That restriction of reprocessing is far too high a price to pay for a marginally effective safeguard that reliance on that restriction will blunt the effort toward more effective means of proliferation control. 
The emphasis in the Carter statement on exploring other breeder types and other fuel cycles tends to destroy the credibility of the technical basis for the statement. There are no fuel cycles which are consistent with breeding and which provide an effective technological barrier to proliferation. 
Many nations feel that reprocessing of spent fuel is the only feasible route to safe ultimate disposal of radioactive wastes. Some are legally committed to that route. 
We ought to grasp the reality which faces many nations in the Western world, particularly Japan. People seem to assume that now that Britain has vast resources off the North Sea she is selfsufficient. We ought to cast that assumption aside because it is not a fact. This is one of the realities that we have to face up to constructively in this debate. There is a need to work out cooperatively with the United States and Canada a governmental safeguards policy which must be detailed. If safeguards requirements are to be continually improved the Government must be responsive to outside suggestions. For example, the message should be made even clearer to uranium buyers that any nuclear explosion set off by countries other than the recognised nuclear powers- that is, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, the United States of America, the United Kingdom, China and France- will result in immediate and permanent cessation of uranium supplies from Canada, Australia and the United States. 
Rightly, Australian policy ought to call for a continued system of bilateral safeguards if for any reason the system of IAEA safeguards lapses. This would cover a situation where, for instance, a uranium buyer ceased to be a member of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty. There seems no reason, however, for Australia to contemplate selling uranium to any present nonsignatories of the NPT, although loopholes exist in the new policy for both France and China, while new safeguards for other non-signatories are foreshadowed. Compulsory membership of the NPT by uranium consumers should be agreed to without delay by Canada, Australia and the United States. This country's greatest influence as a major potential supplier of uranium is not with small nuclear powers such as Brazil, Argentina, Pakistan and Korea but with important customers such as West Germany, Italy and Great Britain. Small countries conceivably could obtain uranium outside Canada, the United States or Australia for nuclear weapons manufacture. The European countries I have mentioned as well as Japan must eventually look to the suppliers' group to provide fuel for their large nuclear power programs. Since these consumer countries are also capable of transferring crucial nuclear technology, such as enrichment plants or reprocessing plants, to sensitive countries, Australia can have an important say in restricting such transfers where necessary. Take the West German contract with Brazil. Had West Germany been reliant on Australia I think that our policy could have had a marked effect on the West German attitude. 
Perhaps the greatest danger connected with any safeguards policy is an official overconfidence in its application. Events have prevented to a large degree the hope of nuclear weapons proliferation being entirely stopped. The process may be slowed down with suitable safeguards but no great reliability can be placed on them, especially the present IAEA inspection and accounting system. Honourable members ought to know that the 2 nations of which I am aware that have refused inspections, particularly with respect to the reprocessing structure, have been Great Britain and Russia. The role of South Africa as a possible willing supplier of uranium for nuclear weapons manufacture cannot and ought not to be ruled out in any evaluation of Australian and United States safeguards policy. This consideration alone makes total bans on Australian uranium rather futile. 
How seriously and with what expertise is the Government studying new ways of improving accounting, containment and surveillance methods? How can Australian yellowcake be traced and checked throughout a country's nuclear fuel cycle? What about the problem of material unaccounted for? Will the export of Australian uranium free other largely unsafeguarded supplies? Unlike the policies of the United States and Canada, the current Australian policy is not pressing future uranium customers to renounce plutonium recycling via reprocessing or breeder reactors. Although American fears of plutonium misuse seem to be amply justified, it is possibly unrealistic at this time to expect countries such as Japan to give up the plutonium option. I do not think they will. Furthermore, the U.S.S.R., France, Britain and West Germany are well advanced in fast breeder programs, particularly Great Britain and France. The world cannot yet afford to discard a large proportion of its uranium which would be used as plutonium in breeders. I think that it was Flowers in his report who intimated that Britain should not commercially run down its experimental fast breeder reactor but ought to keep its options open and keep one in the pipeline. 
The plutonium argument brings up the broader question of whether the interests of Australia, Canada and the United States are similar or even identical. Clearly they are not since the United States is expected to use 50 per cent of the world 's uranium production as well as export a much smaller proportion of it. Available literature indicates that United States uranium reserves appear more expensive to develop than those of Canada and Australia, so an underlying United States aim maybe to keep the world yellowcake prices as low as possible. The danger for Australia in the Carter policy is that the United States will encourage excess foreign uranium production, such as the developing of the Pancontinental and Ranger mines simultaneously, for the purpose of delaying reprocessing for plutonium. At the same time, however, the fall in world demand will lead to excess uranium, the price of which then may once again slip down to $10 to $15 a lb yellowcake for a long-term contract. The United States would dearly like to stockpile cheap Australian uranium for future use against the market and possibly this can be averted by strict sequential development. 
I conclude on this note: The other danger of being too closely aligned with American policy is that some pressure may be exerted on Australia to export uranium to those smaller countries threatening to set up their own reprocessing plants.  President  Carter believes that an assurance of uranium supply will deter reprocessing. However, a better way to slow the spread of reprocessing is by restricting technology transfer. When we talk about a reduction in this area we put far too much emphasis on the raw material side and not enough on the technology side. It is the technology factor that is important, not whether a country uses imported raw material. This can best be approached by Australia exporting uranium mainly to technological countries, as I described them earlier. We also know that the major nuclear nations generally need uranium for power production. The same cannot necessarily be said for the smaller countries anxious to obtain a reprocessing plant. I merely indicate to the House at this stage that Australia, with the potential it has, would be wise to keep its options on this issue wide open. 
asked the Minister for National Resources, upon notice, on 20 April 1 977: 
1 ) On what dates have the relevant State and Federal Ministers met concerning the report of the River Murray Working Party since the report was presented to the Government in October 1975. 
What studies are currently being undertaken into any aspect of the River Murray system. 
When did the Biological Conservation Committee complete its report to the working party, will this report be published, and does it recommend any changes to the River Murray Waters Agreement or other legislation. 
Has any work yet proceeded on the 2 salinity mitigation works recommended by the working party; if so, what work has been undertaken, and what funds nave been spent; if not, when will work commence on these projects. 
Have the relevant governments studied the submission by Professor S. Clark which embraces a number of matters outside the terms of reference of the working party. 
If so, has Professor Clark's submission been endorsed by the governments and will legislation to give effect to his recommendations be introduced into Parliament with other amendments recommended by the working party. 
Was recommendation 9.2 of the working party agreed to; if so, have any amendments to the River Murray Waters Agreement been drafted and have they been presented to the governments concerned. 
Can he say when these amendments will be introduced into Parliament; if not, what is causing the delay in preparing the legislation. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
Has his attention been drawn to page 3 of the 5th Report of the Royal Commission on Petroleum which states that there is a clear conflict of policy looming between the national economic interest and the requirements of State Governments, particularly in implementing policies calculated to have some environmental benefit, notably those relating to vehicular emissions, lead and sulphur levels. 
If so, has this question been raised at a Premiers' Conference or at any other meeting of State and Federal Ministers. 
If so, what was the outcome of these discussions and when will action be taken to resolve the problem. 
If no discussions have been held, will he take urgent steps to see that these matters are discussed with the States, particularly in view of the fact that the States' present proposals on lead phase down could add not less than S cents a gallon to the cost of motor spirit and the Commission has found, at page 892 of its Report, that the public health objectives can be achieved at negligible cost by the development of other methods of phasing down lead. 
5 ) As the Commission has clearly illustrated, at page 896 of its Report, that it is dangerous for Government to be without the necessary expertise to examine proposals and independently assess opinions, will he either set up an agency to monitor the refining, distribution, marketing and 
Slicing of petroleum or ensure that the Department of National Resources or some other Government authority will adequately fulfil these functions. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
Have any companies in the Alexander Barton group satisfied the Commissioner of Taxation that any moneys raised through share issues were to be expended or had been expended in exploration for minerals; if so, when and what were the names of the companies. 
Have any companies in the Alexander Barton group ever lodged a declaration with the Commissioner of Taxation pursuant to sections 77C or 77D of the Income Tax Assessment Act or their predecessors, that moneys raised through share issues were or had been used in mineral exploration; if so, which companies and when were the declarations lodged. 
Have any of the Alexander Barton group of companies failed to lodge any returns in respect of income tax, sales tax, gift duty or payroll tax, with the Commissioner of Taxation or failed to pay any income tax, sales tax, gift duty or payroll tax assessed; if so, which companies and when. 
Have Alexander or Thomas Barton ever failed to lodge any form of taxation return to the Commissioner of 
Taxation in respect of sales tax, income tax, gift duty or payroll tax; if so, when. 
Have Alexander or Thomas Barton ever failed to pay any tax to the Commissioner of Taxation in respect of income, gifts, payrolls or sales; if so, when and what was the amount of tax assessed and in respect of what items was it assessed. 
Have any offences been committed by Alexander or Thomas Barton or any companies with which they have been associated in relation to the taxation or foreign exchange legislation of the Commonwealth; if so, in respect of what legislation have such offences been committed and what action is proposed. 
Has the Commissioner of Taxation received satisfaction of the order of Sequestration of the estate of Thomas Barton obtained in the Federal Court of Bankruptcy on 24 August 1974 and upheld by the High Court on 30 December 1974. 
What was the outcome of the application of the Official Receiver in Bankruptcy, who is administering the estate of Thomas Barton, to recover $ 1 70,000 he allegedly lent to his uncle Terence Barton. 
What was the outcome of the summonses taken out by the Commissioner of Taxation against  Mr Bela  Csidei, a former colleague of  Mr Alexander  Barton, for failure to lodge income tax returns for 1972 to 1975. 
10) Is there any evidence of breach of the Banking (Foreign Exchange) Regulations by Alexander or Thomas Barton or any of their companies in respect of the establishment of their Swiss bank accounts; it so, what action is proposed in respect of the breaches. 
Is there any evidence of a breach of the Banking (Foreign Exchange) Regulations by Alexander or Thomas Barton or any of their companies in respect of the $300,000 allegedly sent to Australia in the middle of 1976; if so, what action is proposed in respect of the breaches. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
1 ) Is it possible for corporations or individuals to claim bribes, or other secret commissions given to a Government official in Australia or abroad, as a deduction from assessable income under the Income Tax Assessment Act. 
If so, are there any proposals to amend the Income Tax Assessment Act, along the lines of section 162 (c) of the United States Revenue Code, to prevent such deductions being made. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 17 March 1977: 
1 ) What are the salaries and other benefits paid to electorate secretaries working for (a) State Parliamentarians in each State and (b) Federal Parliamentarians. 
What is the average number of constituents in (a) State electoral divisions in each State and (b) Federal electoral divisions. 
What is the salary of each grade of research assistant working for (a) Federal Government departments, (b) tertiary institutions and (c) Federal Parliamentarians. 
Did questionnaires recently sent to Parliamentarians by the Remuneration Tribunal and jointly by the  President  of the Senate and the  Speaker  of the House, refer to the extra staff member of Parliamentarians as ' research assistants '. 
Can he say whether most Federal Parliamentarians hire the additional staff member under their entitlement on research assistant duties rather than on electorate duties. 
If so, was the Public Service Board decision, conveyed in a letter dated 5 August 1976 to South Australian secretaries, to reject the claim of secretaries for reclassification partly on the grounds that an extra staff position was made available, based on a misconception of the duties of additional staff members. 
Are Federal electorate secretaries paid a salary equivalent to that of steno-secretary Grade 2 in the Public Service. 
What are the duties and qualities required of a stenosecretary Grade 2 in the Public Service. 
Does the Government agree that the duties of an electorate secretary are more demanding that those of a stenosecretary Grade 2 in the Public Service. 
What are the salaries and other benefits of (a) assistant private secretaries to Ministers, (b) secretaries to Judges of the Family Law Court, (c) secretaries to directors of statutory authorities and (d) secretaries to directors of commissions set up by the Federal Government. 
1 1 ) In what way are the duties of these secretaries more demanding or responsible than those of electorate secretaries. 
12) Has there ever been a review of the work load and other factors related to the conditions of service of electorate secretaries and research assistants. 
13) If not, will the Minister institute such a review. 
14) Is it a fact that parliamentarians' staff do not have the same security of tenure, promotional opportunities or provision of overtime and other allowances as steno-secretaries or other public servants. 
15) Is it a fact that in 1976 a large number of Senators and Members supported increases in the salaries of their staff in submissions to the Remuneration Tribunal, and did the Tribunal conclude on page 34 of its report that it was a matter for the Public Service Board to determine the terms and conditions of service which should apply to staff. 
Does the Public Service Board consider that such terms and conditions are matters for the Government. 
1 7 ) If so, will the Minister support the claims of electorate secretaries and research assistants for improved pay and conditions. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 22 March 1977: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the report in the  Australian Financial Review  of 15 March 1977 concerning the collapse of the Swiss Weiss Credit Bank. If so, is the report accurate. 
Who are the shareholders in this bank. 
Was this bank or any of its subsidiaries authorised to carry on banking business in Australia under the Banking Act. 
Was this bank registered under the Financial Corporations Act. 
How much foreign money was invested in Australia through this bank in each month since 1 970. 
Has this bank or any of its subsidiaries always complied with the statutory reserve deposit requirement of the Reserve Bank. If not, why not. 
Has this bank or any of its subsidiaries always complied with the Government's foreign investment guidelines. If not, why not. 
Has this bank or any of its subsidiaries ever breached the Banking (Foreign Exchange) Regulations. If so, which regulations. 
Has the Reserve Bank asked that proceedings be brought against this bank or any of its subsidiaries,  Mr Renzo  Di Piramo, or any other officer or director of the bank for breach of the provisions of the Banking Act, the Banking (Foreign Exchange) Regulations or the Financial Corporations Act or the regulations thereunder. 
10) Does this bank or any of its subsidiaries accept deposits from persons ordinarily resident in Australia. If so, how much money has been deposited by these persons with the bank in each month since 1 970. 
1 1 ) Is this bank, or any of its subsidiaries, incorporated or registered in any State or Territory as a foreign corporation. If so, which State or Territory. 
Is this bank registered with the securities industry legislation of any State or Territory. 
Have the activities of this bank or any of its subsidiaries been the subject of consideration by any officers of the Department of the Treasury with a view to proceedings being brought for breach of any applicable legislation. 
14) Did an officer of the Department of the Treasury decide that no proceedings should be brought against this bank or any of its directors, officers or subsidiaries. If so, what were the grounds for this decision. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 24 March 1977: 
Who are the members of the Foreign Investment Review Board. 
) When will legislation be introduced to regulate foreign investment in Australia as announced by him on 1 April 1976  (Hansard,  page 1288). 
Are there any proposals to further amend the Foreign Takeovers Act. 
Has the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs consulted with him concerning his proposal to repeal section 50 of the Trade Practices Act. 
Has the Foreign Investment Review Board given reports to the Government on any of the matters mentioned by the Treasurer in his statement, such as inter-company pricing  (Hansard,  1 April 1976, page 1287). 
If so, when will these reports be tabled in the Parliament; if it is not intended to table them, what is the reason. 
What proposals have been considered by the Foreign Investment Review Board. 
8 ) What has been the Board 's decision in each case. 
What are the names of the parties involved in each proposal considered. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 19 April 1977: 
1 ) What is the total number of age and invalid pensioners whose pensions are being overpaid as a result of the introduction of the new income test on 25 November 1976. 
What was the total overpayment made to these pensioners for the fortnight following the introduction of the new income test. 
What is the number of age and invalid pensioners whose pensions were increased following the introduction of the income test. 
What was the total additional moneys paid to these pensioners for the fortnight following the introduction of the income test. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 24 May 1977: 
With abductions of Australian children overseas running at 200 annually, will he advise the results of his undertaking to carry out an urgent investigation with a view to preventing abductions and the anguish caused to Australian parents. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 24 May 1977: 
Will the report of the interdepartmental committee, which was established to examine the 4th Report of the Royal Commission on Petroleum, be tabled in Parliament; if so, when. 
) Did he state in answer to question No. 1415  (Hansard,  3 December 1976. page 3283) that he expected to place a submission on the 4th Report of the Royal Commission and the IAC 's report before Cabinet early in the new year. 
If so, did he in fact present this submission; if so, what what was its fate; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 25 May 1977: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 149, which was first placed on notice as question No. 20 IS on 16 February 1977. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Was an agreement between Australia and Indonesia covering seabed boundaries eastward of 9" 28"Sx 127 561; and westward of 10 37"S x 125 41 13 signed on 9 October 1972. 
Did Article 3 of this agreement refer to the possibility of a further delimitation agreement or agreements being concluded between governments exercising sovereign rights with respect to the exploration of the seabed and the exploitation of its natural resources in the area of the Timor Sea, which might necessitate adjustment of the boundary lines agreed to on 9 October 1972. 
) Have there been any discussions between the Governments of Australia and Indonesia regarding delimitation of a seabed boundary between 9 28 ^ x 127 56 Ti and 10 37 5 x 125 4 1 "E since 9 October 1972. If so, on what occasions, at what localities, and who represented Australia on each occasion. 
Have any discussions on a seabed boundary between Australia and East Timor taken place. If so, (a) with which nation or nations did they take place, (b) on what occasions and at what localities did they take place and (c) who represented Australia on each occasion. 
Does he anticipate an early conclusion (a) to discussions with Indonesia for completion of our seabed boundary with that country and (b) to discussion for a seabed boundary with East Timor. 
If no discussions have been held on a seabed boundary with (a) Indonesia, in areas not covered by the 1971 agreement, and (b) East Timor, what is the status of our seabed boundaries in this region with particular reference to oil and gas exploration and exploitation. 
Has an exploration permit been given to Pelsart Oil NL which covers an area between the median line and the Timor Trench claimed by the Portuguese Government; if so, does this constitute Australian recognition of Indonesian sovereignty over East Timor and /or ad acent waters. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 25 May 1977: 
1 ) Is he able to provide figures on a monthly basis of the various classes of Soviet naval ships which have operated in the Indian Ocean during the period 1 July 1 976 to date. 
Can he also indicate the extent of Soviet naval use of the Suez Canal in this period. 
What is the estimate of ship days spent in the Indian Ocean during 1 976 and 1 977 to date by naval vessels of (a) the United Soviet Socialist Republic, (b) the United States of America, (c) the United Kingdom, (d) France and (e) other nations. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 26 May 1977: 
Do Commonwealth Police estimate that more than 1 Australian born child is being abducted overseas every fortnight and that inadequate help is made available by the Government to repatriate them. 
In many cases has the Commonwealth Crimes Act been breached and are current passport regulations inadequate to cater for an Australian population in which 25 per cent of all persons are dual citizens, thus making child abduction by 1 parent through a Foreign Embassy or High Commission an easy matter. 
Does the Government treat child abduction as a civil matter thus denying financial aid to Australian mothers and fathers whose children have been stolen. 
Will he examine the case of  Mrs Raphael  Calogero of Granville, New South Wales, who was force to expend all her financial resources to recover her abducted child with the help of an Australian journalist who, at his own expense, has assisted in the repatriation of 3 abducted Australian children in the last 3 years. 
Is  Mrs Calogero  now receiving threats on her live that the Commonwealth Police are investigating. 
Will he inquire whether the services of Interpol have been used and with what result in attempting to trace the whereabouts of missing Australians. 
Did he promise immediate action to remedy this situation, in the Sydney  Sun  ' Hot Line ' 3 months ago; if so, what action has been taken. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 9 March 1 977: 
I ) Has his attention been drawn to a statement appearing in the Fourth Report of the Royal Commission on Petroleum that a deliberate campaign of public education on the scarcity of energy resources, together with practical advice as to how motor spirit may be conserved, is an essential precondition for public acceptance of policies of conservation, which will have to be implemented and which are likely to prove unpopular. 
If so, which Government department would have the responsibility for such a program. 
Will he ask the responsible Minister to initiate an education campaign aimed at public acceptance of the need for motor spirit conservation. 
As policies aimed at conserving petrol are likely to prove unpopular, will he give an assurance that his Government will act in the long-term national interest rather than take short-term opportunist decisions. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice, on 17 March 1977: 
1 ) Has the Department of Industry and Commerce been conducting a review of the Secret Commissions Act, which it administers, following the Lockheed scandal. 
Have any breaches of this Act been discovered in the last 10 years; if &gt;o, what action was taken in respect of each. 
Has the Attorney-General's Department been asked to conduct a review of the Secret Commissions Act, and have any consultations taken place with that Department as part of this review. 
Is the work of the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations being considered as part of this review. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 19 April 1977: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the paper delivered by  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Blackburn at the Second Symposium on Law and Justice in the Australian Capital Territory regarding law reform in the Territory. 
If so, what progress has been made on the revision and reform of the criminal law in force in the A.C.T. 
3) What action is being taken to clarify the law in force in the A.C.T. relating to the powers of arrest in the light of the problems raised in  Stefanchick v. Charge. 
Is it intended to take any action, or has any action been taken, to implement the recommendations made in the reports prepared by the Law Reform Commission of the A.C.T. on (a) Imperial Acts in force in the Territory, presented on 25 August 1 972 and 24 January 1 973, respectively, (b) Law relating to Arbitration in the Territory, presented on 1 1 August 1974 and (c) Law relating to Landlord and Tenants in the Territory, presented on 20 December 1 972. 
Will he undertake to have the contents of His Honour's paper examined, and ensure that appropriate action is taken to give effect to the recommendations in that paper. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 26 April 1977: 
1) Has he been informed of the findings of the Temporary Assistance Authority inquiry which was set up, in response to a request by the Australian Tile Manufacturers Association, to have increased duty imposed on imported ceramics and mosaics and for Australian importers to be placed on a quota system. 
When will the findings of the inquiry be submitted to Cabinet. 
Will he give some indication as to when the results will be made public. 
What is (a) the current capacity of the Australian tile industry in square metres, (b) the quantity of the Australian production for 1976 and (c) the known market capacity as seen by the Australian Tile Manufacturers Association. 
Can he say what was the profit of H. and R. Johnson (Aust)PtyLtd for 1976. 
Has he given consideration to the Australian Tile Manufacturers Association's request, with reference to the recent request to all employer and employee bodies to restrain prices and wages for 3 months, and the subsequent bearing this later request could have on the Temporary Assistance Authority Inquiry's submission to Cabinet. 
What was the quantity, in square metres, of tiles imported during 1976. 
Has his attention been drawn to repeated requests to the Australian Tile Manufacturers Association by the Australian tile merchants over a period of 4 to 5 years, as substantiated by the Association's minutes, for a more decorative range in keeping with consumer demands. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in the Arts, upon notice, on 3 May 1977: 
1 ) Did he advise me, in answer to parts (5) to ( 1 1 ) of Question No. 1694  (Hansard,  9 December 1976, page 3724), that certain information would be obtained and be provided in writing as soon as possible. 
Is it a fact that as at 29 March 1977 this information had not been received. 
3 ) Is he yet in a position to provide the information. 
What is the reason for the inordinate delay in making this information available. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in the Arts, upon notice, on 3 May 1977: 
1 ) Did he advise me that details on the investment structure of films in which the Australian Film Commission had not participated were not available  (Hansard,  9 December 1976, page 3724). 
If so, does his answer imply that details are available to the Commission on the films to which it has contributed; if not, why not. 
If financial figures are available, who has received the box office proceeds of the following films in terms of (a) the producers, (b) the distributors and (c) the exhibitors: (i)  Picnic at Hanging Rock,  (ii)  Caddie,  (iii)  Mad Dog Morgan,  (iv)  The Devil's Playground,  (v)  Between Wars,  (vi)  The Cars that Ate Paris,  (vii)  Sunday Too Far Away,  (viii)  The Trespassers, (  ix )  Pure s  and ( x )  Summer of Secrets. 
What amounts have been received by each group in respect of each film referred to in part (3). 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 27 May 1977: 
1 ) In his report on the collapse of the Patrick Partners broking empire, did  Mr Masterman,  Q.C., recommend the following changes to the securities industry legislation: (a) that an effective liquid capital requirement be imposed by the legislation on stockbrokers, (b) that regular returns of financial affairs be lodged by brokers with the regulatory authority to enable it to monitor compliance with the liquid capital requirements, (c) that the liquid capital requirements take account of the fluctuating value of certain assets and recognise the dangers of undue concentration of assets in particular shares, (d) that unsecured loans, particularly to associated companies, should be excluded from calculation of a broker's liquid capital, (e) that temporary infusions of capital into a broker's business close to balance date should be precluded, (f) that if the Stock Exchanges are to play a role in policing the liquid capital requirements, there should be an express right of civil action for persons injured by an exchange's failure to meet its obligations in this regard, (g) that stockbrokers should regularly inform clients of the broker's financial position, (h) that mixing of securities of different clients be prohibited without the express written approval of each client and (i) that stricter trust account requirements be implemented. 
) If so, can he provide information on (a) action that has been taken to give effect to each of these recommendations and (b) whether the proposed co-operative companies and securities legislation will contain provisions designed to implement  Mr Masterman  's suggestions. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 27 May 1977: 
1 ) Has any agreement been reached between the Commonwealth and the States in the field of companies and securities regulation which resolves the problem of the position of the proposed Ministerial Council in relation to amendments to the initial co-operative legislation; if so, what has been agreed between the parties. 
Is it desirable for the regulatory framework in the corporate and securities area to be flexible and up-to-date in order to meet ever-changing circumstances. 
If complete unanimity in the Ministerial Council was necessary regarding proposed amendments, would this institute a severe obstacle to necessary and speedy reform of deficiencies in the existing law. 
If the answers to parts (2) and (3) are in the affirmative, can he give an assurance that the Commonwealth will insist on the principle that decisions of the Ministerial Council are taken by a majority; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for National Resources, upon notice, on 3 1 May 1977: 
1 ) Has he studied the United States legislation which sets standards for the petrol consumption of motor vehicles. 
Has this matter and other recent U.S. initiatives been considered by the interdepartmental committee which is studying the reports of the Royal Commission on Petroleum. 
If so, has the Australian motor vehicle industry been consulted about any technical and economic problems which might arise from possible petrol conservation measures. 
It was a privilege to serve as a member of the sub-committees which was charged with the responsibility to inquire into and report upon an area as complex and important as the Middle East. I take this opportunity to record my thanks to my fellow membersthe honourable members for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  and Cowper  (Mr Ian Robinson)  and Senators Wheeldon, Sibraa and Scott. In particular I wish to express my thanks to  Mrs Jill  Chorazy, the research assistant, and  Mr Ducker,  the secretary, for their tireless efforts. Their valuable work is reflected in this report. 
This report, the evidence received both written and oral, its compilation, its findings, its conclusions and its recommendations ought to be studied by all members for I believe it to be one of the most penetrating and important reports ever to be tabled in this Parliament. Over the years I have held a view- and this report confirms it- that if world peace is to be achieved it will in no small measure depend upon the solutions to the extremely complex problems which have arisen in the Middle East. There is a number of factors which I believe must be evaluated and acknowledged if the whole of the complex issues are to be put into their correct perspective. First, we should be concerned with the strategic importance of south-west Asia which is that area from the Persian Gulf to 
Karachi. Secondly, we have to take note of the strategic importance of those countries which stretch like a crescent from Afghanistan to Morocco. Thirdly, we need to consider the vexed question of the strength of 'Arab unity', whether it continues or fragments. It is upon changes to its structure and realignments that will rest the peace of the Middle East and the world. Fourthly, as 65 per cent of the world 's oil deposits are located within this vicinity we ought to acknowledge the growing dependence on the area by the West, by the Soviet Union and by Australia. We must recognise that they are dwindling reserves and that access to and a rational distribution of these dwindling reserves is a factor which no government and no people can ignore. Fifthly, we should bear in mind that, for 30 years, the Arab-Israeli conflict has defied solution. It continues to do so despite the optimism being expressed in some quarters. In this regard the most pressing problem is to find a solution to the Palestinian aspect of the conflict. 
In the brief time at my disposal I would like to develop three important issues, namely, the Palestinian question, the Arab unity question and above all the critical question of oil. First, I shall deal with the Palestinian question. The former Rabin Government in Israel had what I believe was a coherent and thoughtful policy with regard to the Palestinian question. It was committed to seeking a solution to the problem of Palestinian self-identity within the context of a general peace agreement. While it opposed the establishment of a Palestinian Liberation Organisation controlled West Bank state, it endorsed the concept of a Jordanian solution for the political expression of Palestinian rights. Because of the search for a 'quick fix' many have come to see the West Bank solution as ideal. I think it is necessary to understand Israel's reasons for insisting that a West Bank state cannot be an adequate solution to the problem while a Jordanian- West Bank state can. 
We ought to analyse this matter. First, it would not solve the refugee problem. There are over a quarter of a million Palestinian refugees in Lebanon, a similar number in Gaza and 300 000 on the East Bank of the Jordan and in Syria. The West Bank, which already has 650 000 inhabitants, obviously would be unable to absorb them. With its lack of cultivatable land and its limited resources the West Bank has been an area of emigration rather than immigration. It utterly lacks the geographic and economic infrastructure to become an adequate home for all the refugees. Besides this, for the refugees in 
Lebanon, the West Bank is no more their homeland than is Lebanon. They dream of Haifa not Hebron, of Jaffa not Jericho. To the extent that the West Bank state does not solve the refugee problem it will make the area even more unstable than it is today. On the other hand, the Jordanian state which embraces the West Bank and covers an area 1 1 times its size could become an adequate base for the resettlement of refugees, giving them economic opportunities they would not have in a West Bank state. 
Secondly, the Palestinians now living in Jordan would be severed from the West Bank entity and the Palestinian identity. Those citizens of Jordan, who are well integrated into the Jordanian economy, presumably also have rights as Palestinians. Thus, there will be a cause of constant friction between the West Bank state and the Jordanian state and this could well threaten the existence of Jordan. On the other hand, a Jordanian state which embraced the West Bank would be able, because of its broader context to integrate the Palestinians and develop a Jordanian-Palestinian identity. 
Thirdly, the West Bank state would be, in itself, a serious source of instability. Official PLO policy makes it quite clear that the West Bank state is only the springboard for further action against Israel- the first step towards its objectives of the dismemberment of the Jewish state. Even if this policy changes, the Palestinian Rejection Front, which is supported by Libya and Iraq, will oppose any compromise with Israel. A small, weak and problematic West Bank state will be unable to deal with the Rejection Front's subversive and obviously terrorist tactics. It will also be unable to resist, and will probably seek, Soviet military and economic support, fuelling super power rivalry at a time when it ought to be reduced throughout that area. A Jordanian- West Bank state, on the other hand, with the administrative and organisational skills of the experienced Jordanian Government will be able to deal with subversion, resist Soviet influence and ensure that the conflict with Israel is not carried on from the West Bank. Because the West Bank pinches Israel's waist and makes it extremely vulnerable to Arab attack, Israel will insist that the West Bank be demilitarised. Israel can live with an Arab government ruling areas of the West Bank but it cannot live with an Arab army surrounding Jerusalem and within shelling distance of Tel Aviv, especially if that army is intent on attack. Thus, the demilitarisation of the West Bank is a must for Israel. In fact, it is just not on to expect a Palestinian government of the new West Bank state to accept complete demilitarisation of the totality of its territory. However, it is at least feasible to expect that a Jordanian West Bank state will consent to demilitarise its western province which is an area which covers less than one-tenth of its territory. 
For these reasons a Jordanian-West Bank state seems to offer, I believe, the best hope for a peaceful and stable settlement which will solve the Palestinian problem. On the other hand, the establishment of an independent West Bank state will merely perpetuate the problems of the refugees and cause further instability. Regretably, I fear, this is probably what the Palestine Liberation Organisation really wants. While the Palestinian problem tends to occupy the attention of those concerned with peace and stability in the Middle East, we ought to remember that there are other sources of tension in the region which endanger world peace, which threaten Western interests and which cause misery and hardship to large numbers of people. In particular, the inter-Arab conflict in all its manifestations is a cause for our attention. We on the Committee certainly looked at it in some depth because it could interrupt crucial supplies of oil and disrupt vital communications between Europe, Asia and Australia. It has incredible destructive potential. 
The fact that 60 000 people were killed in Lebanon is tragic and deplorable. This also points to the problem in the area which may be even more difficult to solve than the Arab-Israeli conflict. We tend to overlook it in the debate. There are five basic, underlying causes of the inter-Arab conflict. These are the class struggle between the extremes of feudal wealth for the few and poverty for the masses; the continuation of tribalism in the guise of political parties; the existence of artificial boundaries inherited from the colonial era; the struggle for leadership in the Arab world; and the ideological and political rivalry between conservatives and radicals. This is seen in the civil war in Lebanon, the conflict between Libya on the one hand and Egypt, Sudan and Chad on the other, and the rivalry between Algeria and Morocco over the western Sahara which, basically, if we analyse the situation, is due to minerals and phosphate. Then there is the struggle between the Iraqi and Syrian Baath parties for dominance over the territory once known as greater Syria. There is simmering tension between Iraq, Kuwait and Iran and between North Yemen and South Yemen. 
All these conflicts and tensions complicate the task of this diplomacy and threaten to plunge the region on the road towards war. These are issues which will continue to cause problems for the West and therefore problems for this country. We must keep a watch on the area, keep informed of the causes of tension and the possibilities for their solution and do what we can to assist in the long and difficult settlement process. In this regard I believe the report on the Middle East has made a valuable contribution. On the matter of oil, I ask for leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table setting out Australia's increasing dependance on the Middle East. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 27 May 1 977: 
How many persons have been prosecuted for offences under Sub-division D of Division 4 of Part X of the Com- panies Ordinance of the Australian Capital Territory in the last 5 years. 
How many of these persons were convicted of the offences, and what penalties were imposed. 
asked the Minister for National Resources, upon notice, on 31 May 1977: 
When did the interdepartmental committee begin its examination of (a) the Sth and (b) the 6th Report of the Royal Commission on Petroleum. 
When does he expect that the committee will report to the Government. 
Which departments are represented on the committee and to which Minister or Ministers will it report. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 3 1 May 1977: 
1 ) Which companies paid coal export duty in the periods (a) 20 August 1975 to 31 December 1975, (b) 1 January 1976 to 17 August 1976, (c) 18 August 1976 to 31 December 1976 and (d) 1 January 1977 to date. 
What was the tonnage of coal exported by each company during each period referred to in pan ( 1 ), what rate of duty was applicable in each case, and what was the total sum paid in coal export duty. 
How much did these companies pay in income tax in the last three financial years. 
In view of the present healthy financial position of coal exporters, does the Government still have a firm commitment to phase out the coal levy or is this matter open for consideration in the Government s budget deliberations. 
What action does the Government intend to take to ensure that coal exporters will not reduce coal exports prior to the 1977 Budget and then increase exports after the Budget, in an endeavour to evade coal duty. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 18 August, 1 977: 
1 ) Does he recall my raising the pressing problem relating to the escalation of child abductions in May 1976 as a result of which, among other initiatives, he agreed to set up an interdepartmental committee to examine the issue involved. 
Does he also recall my lengthy submission urging a number of recommendations and reforms needed in this particular area. 
Has the committee completed its findings. If so, when will its recommendations be implemented. 
Does he further recall that on IS August 1977 I drew his attention to an article in a Western Australian newspaper relating to an international, highly sophisticated underground organisation, Fathers Organisation for Revolutionary Custody Entitlement which smuggles single parents and their children out of Australia, and which is operating in Western Australia. 
If so, will he initiate an immediate investigation into the alleged activities of this organisation and also will he request the Attorney-General to look into the legal implications of this organisation's activities. 
My question is directed to the Treasurer and deals with petrol prices and taxation. Is it a fact that a person on a taxable income for the year 1977-78 of $8,000 will save 69c a week, which is equivalent to 6 litres of petrol, while a person on a taxable income of 20,000 a year will save $6.06 a week, which is equivalent to 55 litres? 
Just a moment. Does the Treasurer agree that the petrol price rise will inevitably affect people living in the outer suburbs, who are in fact from the lower income groups? If so, why did the Government fail to structure the income tax to compensate these lower wage earners rather than give assistance to the upper income earners who can afford to live in their penthouses in the inner city areas? 
I must confess that I am amazed that so few speakers in this debate have attempted to evaluate Australia's energy needs both in the short term and the long term. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table setting out Australia's increasing dependence on Middle East oil. 

 The table read as follows- 

AUSTRALIA'S INCREASING DEPENDENCE ON MIDDLE EAST OIL 
Domestic crude oil production 
Average barrels /day  1976-77-421,000 1 980-8 1 -396,000 (estimated ) 1 984-85-30 1 ,000 (estimated ) 
Proportion of Australia's likely petroleum products demand met by domestic crude oil 1974- 75-65 percent 1980-81-48 percent 1984-85-33 percent 
Likely cost of imported crude oil 1975- 76-$805m 1980-81-$ 1,500m 1984-85-$2,500m 
Availability of various petroleum products from indigenous crude oil ( 1 974-75 ) motor spirit- 93 percent distillate- almost 100 percent  fuel oil- 20 per cent lubricants- 0 bitumen- 0 
Dependence of transport on petroleum products Transport is the largest user of petroleum. 
Per cent of total petroleum fuels used 
1974-75-57.4 
1984-85-63 (estimated) (in UK 1976 19.6 per cent petroleum for motor vehicles, 6.4 per cent diesel fuel ). 
Dependence of States on petroleum for energy requirements 
Average Stock holdings of key petroleum products during the 2V4 year period following 1973 Arab oil embargo 
Effects of a long term Oil Embargo 
If supplies were interrupted for more than 3 months estimated 500,000 unemployed- most affected areas- industry which depends on furnace oil, e.g. cement production, processing of non-ferrous metals, also transport, motor industry- shortages of lubricants would have effects across industry and commerce. 
Dependence on Middle East for fuel oil 70 per cent at present; 88 per cent by 1980-81; special difficulties for shippingfuel oil constitutes about 85 per cent of total shipping fuel usage. Shipping provides 40 per cent of domestic nonurban freight. 
Recent studies by the OECD, the CIA and other organisations suggest that by 1985, if present consumption trends continue, world demand could reach 45 million barrels a day against a total Opec output of 35 million barrels a day, setting off a scramble for oil and a sharp rise in prices. 
-The figures ought to be studied by all honourable members and the public. One cannot evaluate the real factors in this issue unless one comes to the realisation of how critical Australia's liquid hydrocarbon situation is. Equally, any reasoned evaluation must come to grips with the world energy needs. Regrettably, the energy vision of State politicians is in many cases restricted to borders fixed by imperial legislators 150 years ago. The vision of many Federal politicians fades out at low water mark. 
Australia has more than 500,000 tonnes of uranium reserves. This Government intends to supply half of these reserves, 250,000 tonnes, to world countries for power generation by the end of this century. The world has already produced more than 250,000 tonnes of uranium. Most of this has been converted into weapon material in multi-million dollar plants. The dangers hanging over us from this are clearly evident. To produce and export the equivalent quantity without proper environmental safeguards, designed to minimise the further potential risk from proliferation, is not acceptable to the Australian people. Australia does not need uranium for electricity for the next 25 years. In providing 250,000 tonnes of uranium to the world countries it is recognised that Australia will be providing electricity, an essential requirement for living. 
By the year 2000 it is estimated that electricity will comprise about 50 per cent of the total world energy supply. The quantities required are estimated in millions of gigawatts. To many countries of the world there is no alternative choice but uranium as a fuel for generating electricity essential to their needs. We ought to remember that 1 oz of enriched uranium releases about the same energy burning as 100 tonnes of coal or 168,000 gallons of crude oil. It is often said that coal will meet the shortfall in the world's dwindling liquid hydrocarbons. In the last speech I made to this House I referred to chapter 9 of the Fox report and said: 
Chapter nine investigates the benefits and costs of exporting and not exporting Australian uranium. It goes so far as to advocate: . . . exports of steaming coal by Australia could minimise any fuel shortage which would otherwise arise if other countries decide to reduce their reliance on nuclear power below present expectations. 
The concept of Australia becoming the quarry of the world is thus promoted by the report. 
Australia needs to consider the ramifications of the policy of steaming coal exports replacing uranium exports. By the year 1985 Australia will easily be able to export 1 5,000 tonnes of uranium oxide a year. The equivalent in black steaming coal amounts to 200 million tonnes. We ought to remember that in 1 976 exports of black steaming coal amounted to 3.5 million tonnes. 
Already Australia is suffering from the environmental effects of a fossil fuel powered economy. Environmentalists ought to cogitate upon that problem. The nature of coal places limits not only on how much can be recovered but also on how much can be burnt. The energy policy which appears to be emerging in the United States is much more a strategy of hard saving in oil and gas and general energy conservation than one of burning coal as a substitute. The United States has recoverable reserves of about 256 billion tonnes. Coal is to have its role gaining some 400 million tons a year, or 40 per cent, above the current extraction rate of 665 million tons. By 1990 

<graphic href="106131197709073_49_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="106131197709073_49_1.jpg"></graphic>

under Carter's scenario a total of 1,000 million tons of coal a year will be extracted but under rigid environmental strictures. The reasons for this are plain. Uncontrolled coal mining has wrought environmental havoc in the United States. Never again is government likely to permit the rape, ruin and run strategy of strip or surface mining for coal. Strip mining has grown so much since the 1950s that today half the 665 million tons of coal produced in a year is mined by moving the earth from the top of the seam rather than by burrowing the coal from within the earth. 
In the Appalachian Mountains, from Pennsylvania to Alabama, strip miners have left more than 20,000 linear miles of scars. Carter's energy policy calls for a large amount of strip mining on a huge scale. There has already been an outcry in that country following a spate of mine disasters. It is a startling fact that the United States is still a long way from stamping out black lung disease caused by inhalation of coal dust. Death and sickness benefits have been as high as billions of dollars a year for this disease. Having decreed that a billion tons of coal a year will be burnt by 1985 or 1990, Carter's difficulty unquestionably is how it can be done. The answer is not a simple one. A billion tons of coal a year can be burnt if some of it is uranium. Carter himself used coal as a surrogate for uranium in his energy statement. He said: 
We must be sure that oil and natural gas are not wasted by industries and utilities that could use coal instead. Our strategy will be conversion from scarce fuels to coal where possible. Although coal now provides only 18 per cent of our energy needs it makes up 90 per cent of our energy reserves. 
As far as the electric utilities are concerned, Carter's policy could just as logically be called a nuclear policy. It could be summed up quite succinctly. For these two fuels- coal and uranium- in a head to head competition for the electric utility market governmental power is critical. Carter has gone a far way towards providing an answer to the dilemma in energy planning raised in the following terms by the Federal Energy Administration: 
Costs of nuclear and coal electric power generation are close enough and uncertain enough that they might be considered substantially the same. It appears that there is a nuclear coal trade off where the economics may make little difference where the decision between the two and the proper mix of the two may depend therefore on an assessment of the environmental and social costs and risks associated with them. 

 Mr Murphy, the Director of the Federal Bureau of Mines, had this to say: 
Estimates of the US coal production must increase 7.S a year to meet Carter's 1983 goals. Already in areas where coal reserves are held local people are raising a hue and cry. 
A principal worry among mining companies is that the requirement to treat vast amounts of ash and noxious gases can add up to 25 per cent to capital costs of new power plants. The costs involved are seen as probably the main barrier to Carter's plan. The  President  of the National Coal Association said: 
I have warned Carter that he is sailing on a collision course if he wants more production, more environmental purity and more safety regulations. It just won 't work. 
When we come to make decisions on uranium we have to consider what are the alternatives. We can be very self-righteous in Australia but other countries are not in our fortunate position. I am reminded of the situation facing Nigeria. We want a reasonable standard of living and we expect to maintain it. Nigeria has but one export. Ninety-four percent of its income comes from the export of its crude oil. So are we to make a moral judgment and say to Nigeria when all its liquid hydrocarbons have been depleted: 'Bad luck. You can go back to what is fashionably called a camel dung economy'. We ought to reflect upon that point. As I understand it Nigeria is already on the way to developing a nuclear capacity because at this time it has no alternative. 
Some 500 nuclear electricity power stations are now operating. It is estimated that by the year 2000 there could be 2,000 such power stations. Australia would be providing one-tenth of them with their uranium supplies. Whether one welcomes or deplores the fact, electricity generation will become more and more dependent on uranium over the next 50 years, or at least until a further abundant source of energy without radioactive or otherwise dangerous environmental waste is available. Australia, in choosing to supply uranium to the extent of about one-tenth of world requirements for electricity, has to accept terrific responsibilities in making sure that it progresses human existence and does not destroy human existence. The whole question of supply arrangements has not been satisfactorily stated by the Government. Information has not been detailed on the supposedly proven methods of handling waste. Above all, the non-proliferation proposals are vague and far from convincing on this most vital matter of safeguarding human existence. 
Australia has to put its house in order with much more definitive decisions. Australia has to treat uranium as the most important global commodity that man has been challenged to handle and use. I have been pleading with the Government ever since it initiated this debate and I want to put forward a number of cogent points. Uranium has to become a commodity to be  handled only by the Government, supplied only by the Government and priced only by the Government. These three criteria are essential. Mining companies can work within government controls and produce yellowcake. Thereafter it becomes a government-owned commodity to be used for electricity generation only by world governments so disposed to accept the uranium on terms that will meet all government safeguards. 
The Fox report made particular reference to the need for the findings and questions involved to be resolved by this Parliament. This prime recommendation cannot be ignored. In my view it has been completely ignored. The Government has not given the public or parliamentary representatives the information for this further study on the issues involved. White Papers are badly needed to be tabled in this House so that we can make a balanced evaluation. The time is long overdue for the public to be fully informed by the authorities advising the Government and not by ministerial statements- I emphasise thatand vague documentation of procedures which are premature until the full policy issues have been explained in a much more detailed, methodical and rational way. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
Has the Broken Hill Pry Co. Ltd made representations to the Government for amendments to the Income Tax Assessment Act to allow investments by one of its subsidiary companies in the North West Shelf development to be offset against the profits from its subsidiary operating the Bass Strait oil field. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
Has his attention been drawn to a report appearing in the  Australian Financial Review  of 6 January 1977 to the effect that the Government is unable to reimpose quotas on motor vehicle imports until it receives a new report on this matter from the Industries Assistance Commission; if so, is the report accurate 
How many motor vehicles were imported into Australia in each calendar month of 1976 in (a) built-up and (b) knocked-down form, and into what category of vehicle did each import fall. 
What was the gross amount spent on (a) imported motor vehicles and (b) imported parts for motor vehicles in each calendar month of 1 976. 
asked the Minister for National Resources, upon notice, on 3 1 May 1 977: 
Has the Government taken any action to diversify future sources of imported crude oil for Australia, or has this matter been left to the discretion of oil companies. 
Has he discussed this matter with any overseas governments. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 16 August 1977: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the proposed multinational Kenana sugar project in the Sudan which aims to produce 350,000 tonnes of refined sugar by 1981, which will become the largest sugar factory in the world, and which has a consortium of backers including Japanese private companies. 
If so, what long term effects does he expect that this development will have on the Australian sugar industry, and particularly on sales of sugar to Japan. 
I support the matter of public importance raised by the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating).  The Treasurer  (Mr Lynch),  despite his verbiage, cannot evade the very simple fact that tax receipts are up 17 per cent this year. However, we have heard hardly a word about a resource tax or a secondary tax. Let us look at the rake-off, the rip-off, or the plunder, by the major oil companies, by this sell-out Government, as a result of their proposed petrol increase. Additional returns to producers for 1977-78 would be slightly more than $150m. This figure does not take into account company tax. So it is not a windfall profit but a windfall return. The net return after 47W per cent company tax is about $81m. I now turn to uranium. Using a price of $30 per lb U.0., the Ranger Commission estimated a gross profit before tax and royalties of $ 15,864m, This return was based on the capital expenditure, believe it or not, of $ 1 .5 billion. 
I will not traverse the same ground as that covered by the honourable member for Blaxland. I will not add to what was in fact an excellent speech. But, of course, there must be a resource tax and it must be structured to apply to situations where the rake-off of people's assets reaches mammoth proportions. Let me make four quick observations. As far as Shell, BP, Esso and BHP are concerned, investment in coal projects is much more profitable than investment in oil exploration in Australia, whether oil is priced at the world parity price or not. The profits from any oil price may be invested in oil exploration but not in Australia. The scramble by major oil companies for coal over recent years clearly underwrites the corporate policy in Australian investments. I warn the people just how crucial is the need for a national government to retain control over non-renewable resources, particularly energy resources, and how crucial it is to ensure that those resources are exploited in the interests of our people and that the mammoth economic returns are ploughed back for the benefit of our people. 
A resource tax must be structured. It must be structured now. Why has coal in fact become an integral part of what has become the energy industry? The reason goes beyond the ending of cheap oil with the oil price hike in 1973 by the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries, and the consequent revaluing of coal, gas and uranium in a world that is now energy conscious. For a number of years the world 's major oil companies had been diversifying their interests into other energy sources. In the 1950s international oil companies began expansion in the petrochemical industry. By 1962 the oil corporations  controlled more than one-third of the petrochemical industry in the United States of America and the proportion is far higher in this country. Oil companies realised that the greatest advantage was to be gained from becoming monopolistic suppliers of raw materials. Our control of raw materials was a bar to new entry into an industry and in such industries monopolistic profits can be obtained. If other sources of energy were to gain a competitive advantage over oil, monopolistic control over oil would not be enough to maintain the enormous profits of the oil majors. Economics suggest that the companies retain a monopolistic position if they gain control over all energy sources. There is an awareness that oil supplies will fall behind demand and this has hastened the oil companies into alternative sources. We overlook this simple fact; and this is what the scramble is all about today. 
The result is that the major oil companies have now become energy corporations and are attempting to monopolise control over all sources of energy. Australia's massive coal reserves are at present a target for these corporations. This is not necessarily a conspiracy but collusion certainly exists. It is not a necessary element of a strategy which leads towards monopoly control over all energy sources. Gaining such control provides a number of major benefits. Those major benefits are, firstly, that these companies can make monopolistic profits by driving up prices. Secondly, coal is a likely source of oil or gas in the future and would give the companies even greater marketing flexibility. Thirdly, it would tend to guarantee the stability of the companies as coal and uranium would be used more than oil in the fastest growing yet most stable market- electric utilities. 
The major oil companies have rapidly cornered large quantities of non-oil reserves, both in the United States of America and in this country. There are moves already in the United States to curb the growing power of this corporation and this Government will have to face up to the issue very shortly. The increased profits coming from coal production have only served to increase the rush of foreign oil corporations into coal in this country. The Government's petrol price decision has effectively placed millions of dollars in the hands of oil companies to finance monopolisation of Australia's coal reserves. 
Foreign ownership of Australia's coal affects both the rate of extraction and the export price of coal. Foreign companies usually have other overseas projects and are anxious to generate big cash inflows from existing investments so as to finance the next project. Their interests are best served by exploiting the earliest, the easiest and the richest energy resource that is possible, I suggest with no regard, or very Utile regard, for the future coal demand or the adverse effects on the local energy market as a whole. 
The case of Utah illustrates the hazards to Australia of foreign ownership of a key energy source. In 1976 Utah sent to the United States $90.8m, and in the previous year the amount was $63m. This year it will return $130m to General Electric. The latest figures suggest that Utah is paying out more than 90 per cent of its net profits in dividends. This is by far the highest pay out in this nation's history. The massive profit boost to United States shareholders in Utah was assisted by this Government's devaluation in 1976. In spite of its large profits Utah's basic philosophy is to undercut competition in coal sales. One has to think only of the exercise that the Premier of New South Wales was forced into because of this singular fact. It is not surprising that local companies resent Utah's approach which amounts to contempt of Australia's interests. Let us have these few simple facts on the record. The situation will deteriorate further if the foreign ownership bids by CRA and Shell which are now frozen are ultimately allowed to proceed. That will leave only 3 local export ventures which will not have significant levels other than overseas ownership. The Japanese steel mills - 
-Perhaps the honourable member for Holt will take note of this statement. Australia's largest coal customers have also voiced their concern at the fact that the ownership of Australia's coal reserves is largely passing to aggressive multinationals which regard coal as a diversification area rather than one intrinsically connected with their operations. That is the view of the Japanese firms. This view has also been expressed with good effect over the last fortnight by the Japanese Government. 
The only benefit which Australia stands to derive as compensation for the millions of dollars lost to general revenue in the forgone coal duty is the quarter of a million dollars hand-out by Utah to the Australian Opera Company, and I suppose we can expect a repeat performance this year after the further cut in coal excise. 
I conclude by making one constructive aphorism that I made in 1973. It is still apposite today. There are some startling lessons to be learnedin Australia. We are one of the few highly industrialised nearly self-sufficient countries. If we follow countries we have endeavoured to copy in the past, such as Great Britain and the United 
States, in mindlessly plundering our raw materials, or worse, allowing others to do it for us, we deserve to sink to the wretched position in which those other countries now find themselves. A majority of highly industrialised countries have little more than their technology to trade and the raw materials that are needed is all we know. Technology no longer recognises national boundaries and normally goes to the highest bidder. We have a sacred duty to see that the patrimony is not taken from us by handing over exploitation to others. Once natural gas, iron ore and bauxite are gone to fuel the economies of others, does anyone think that our erstwhile friends will give us a second thought? I doubt it. There must be no confusion, no inconsistency, in safeguarding and ensuring that any return on the exploitation of the people' s assets of this country is maximised to the full. I support my colleague, the honourable member for Blaxland. 
-As each day passes, this Budget is being seen throughout this country for what it is. It is a fraud; it is a sham; it is inequitable; it is unjust; and it is totally deceptive. It is sometimes said that in the execution of the law it fawns upon the rich and spurns the poor. One can with some accuracy apply that dictum to this year's tory budget. It certainly heaps rewards upon the rich and heaps burdens upon the poor. It is a Budget for the rich and not for the poor. Traditionally tories have always applied two simple cardinal economic criteria to economic crises. It is axiomatic when they are in government in these circumstances that the first one is a high unemployment rate and the second one is recessive economic policies or excessive cuts, particularly in the public sector. 
Since 1975 the people have witnessed and have constantly been forced to expect the quality of life to improve commensurate with burgeoning profits. Profits are up and correspondinglywhy should it be odd- unemployment is up. The people demand that their increased standard of living will be reflected in those areas which are a physical testimony to their improved quality of life. They expect better education, hospitals, roads, highways, water, sewerage and medical facilities. These are the things, particularly in the poorer class areas, that compensate in some form in the quality of life. At long last people now know and have been made brutally aware of this Government's economic philosophies and their downstream effects. Without responsible injections of federal funds people cannot possibly expect to maintain those facilities which determine the level of a continued high standard of living. I remember last year attending a convention in the United States of America at Lexington, Kentucky, called the Council of State Governments. It was federally funded. I think that they flew people from all over the country to attend it. They were going to tell us the problems they had with the Federal and State systems and the apportionment of federal finance. It did not take very long to figure out that unless the Federal Government puts funds into the States the quality of life, particularly for the underprivileged and the poor, becomes almost depressed. 
This Government is fully conscious- its policies are deliberate and it is totally unashamedthat its cuts are selective and discriminatory. When cuts are made in education, health services, hospitals and medical facilities who suffers the most and where do they suffer? It is the poor, the underprivileged, the aged and the sick who suffer most. Honourable members opposite know well that most of those people whom the cuts are affecting live in Labor held electorates. This Government's cuts are callous and, as I said, they are deliberately calculated to fawn upon the rich and to spurn the poor. It is a rich man's Budget. It is a Budget for big corporations. It does nothing for the poor. It does absolutely nothing for the small businessman. In these last two areas the Budget is a disaster. John Maynard Keynes pronounced a true economic dictum when he said that capitalism is the extraordinary belief that the nastiest of men work for the nastiest of motives but for all that will somehow work for the benefit of all. Anyone who reflects upon the Budget will realise how true that is. 
Let us apply that dictum to education. As I recall vividly, in the run-up to the 1975 election honourable members opposite said that they would maintain the standard of education and expenditure that we fixed from 1972 to 1975. Let us have a look at the Government's disastrous record. The Government's education budget, presented in the papers as a 10 per cent increase, is in fact a 4 per cent cut disguised by a transfer of funds from the poor to the rich. The Opposition always accepted the criterion to allocate funds according to need. At school level this meant increased allocations to the neediest schools regardless of sect. The Opposition never interfered with the need based funding arrangements except to set a responsible upper limit on funds and to strike a balance between capital and recurrent expenditure. The tory Government has extended this interference to the ridiculous extreme of specifying amounts of $2m here and cuts of $4m elsewhere. Broad principle has been dispensed with in favour of particular directions to a Schools Commission which could once boast independence and needs based allocation. At least the Opposition set about its changes after receiving Commission reports. It never ordered the Commission to make changes before reporting to the Parliament. 
What about the independence of the Schools Commission? We have already seen how its independence has been reduced to an administrative wing of the conservatives by guidelines, thinly disguised directions to assist the richest schools in the land. We know too and people ought to be aware that the nominated representatives of teachers were not included on the tertiary commissions. Will the Liberal-National Country Party Government now set about destroying the independence of the Schools Commission by hand-picking the teacher and parent representatives on that Commission? It is a strange coincidence that under the idea of staggered 3-year terms both the part time parent and teacher commissions received one-year appointments. Honourable members should reflect upon that. What arrangements has the Government made to have their replacements made in consultation with the Australian Council of State School Organisations and the Australian Teachers Federation? So far as I know, it has made none and it probably will not make any, such is its cynical attitude to independence and need. 
Let us return to the Budget. We know that part of it is based on salary increases of 10.5 per cent. With partial indexation in operation, this means that a total inflation figure of 14 per cent to 17 per cent is expected. A 10 per cent increase is then less than that needed to keep up with inflation. That is not a freeze; it is a cut. This cut is exacerbated by the loss of full cost supplementation, which will hit the capital works program extremely severely. The Government seems hell bent on destroying the building industry. The loss to South Australia caused by the loss of cost supplementation in the capital works area reduces funds by $1.4m nationally. That is what the Government has done. 
South Australian Liberal members opposite know this and the Minister knows it. They know very well that school enrolments are increasing, for instance, in the Adelaide hills suburban fringe zone. This is because there is a growth in the student populations in fringe areas and a decline in the inner areas. It is most unfortunate that it is not possible to transport brick buildings to Birdwood or Mount Barker some 25 miles from Adelaide. It is more unfortunate too for the students. The honourable member for Kingston  (Mr Chapman)  ought to know of another side effect of the cut in capital. The Kingscote Area School in his electorate has for years been trying to get some upgrading carried out. Each year has seen a deferral. Meanwhile dry rot continues to attack the aged wooden shell of the building, and parents continue to express concern. This is just one example of the 4,000 unsatisfactory classrooms which the South Australian Education Department estimates that it has. 
Surely it is time the Federal Government accepted its responsibilities and began to provide funds to allow upgrading. The incidental boost to the building industry would be a welcome change in hard times, but it is not welcome, apparently, for this Federal Government. All that the uneconomic philosophies are going to apply is further cuts. Let us take another area- recurrent funds. The honourable member for Kingston is seen in the South Australian media as a man concerned for the youth of Australia. What rot, when he sits on the back benches supporting a government that has presented guidelines which propose to transfer $ 13.8m from government to non-government schools. 
There is nothing wrong with that at all. I concede that, provided it is done on a needs basis. In fact, given that the promise of a 2 per cent real growth was honoured- and that, is what the Government has committed itself to- the Schools Commission proposed to allocate an additional $5m to non-government schools in 1978. But the promise of a 2 per cent growth was not honoured. A cut of 4 per cent was made and presented as a fictitious figure. Just look at nongovernment schools. The great majority of nongovernment schools have fewer resources and probably worse pupil-teacher ratios than average government primary and secondary schools. 
Non-government schools. I trust that the honourable member has been listening to the debate. Non-government schools are grouped by the Commission into six categories of resource, use and need. We set that Commission up; the Government has not, at least, dismantled it. Schools in categories or levels one and two have far more resources than non-government schools in categories three to six and more resources than normal government schools. Yet category one and two nongovernment schools are to be the principal beneficiaries of the Government's new funding policy for non-government schools. Have a look at pages 36 and 37 of the Schools Commission report for 1978. Government supporters ought to read these reports. 
Government school students face an unemployment rate of one in every six when they leave school. More than that, if they come from the country or are a migrant or of Aboriginal extraction or regrettably are born female they face a higher unemployment rate. The  Chairman  of David Jones is reported in a Diners' Club advertisement as advising young people with high aspirations to 'choose your parents carefully*. Research supports that conclusion. But most Australian students have not chosen their parents and must make the best of what they ave. They have now a government which ignores their needs and directs a previously independent Schools Commission to do likewise. 

 Dr Tonkin, the Leader of the Liberal Party in South Australia, has gone to the polls- and Liberal Party supporters are great with cliches- saying that he will 'increase work experience programs in schools'. What with? It takes real money to get country students to city work sites where some of them may find employment. It takes money to educate teachers in work experience. Funds for this purpose have been cut in the guidelines on service and development. Again,  Dr Tonkin  is about as serious as his counterpart the shadow Minister,  Mr Allison,  who recently went to air and said that he will 'put walls back in classrooms'. This. is another nice clean cliche. About one third of students and teachers alike would do better in walled classrooms. However,  Mr Allison  has obviously overlooked the fact that these walls cost money and the Federal Government is cutting funds. It is a pity  Mr Allison  never thought it through. By contrast, the Minister in South Australia,  Dr Hopgood,  has the record for the most economical use of capital funds in new schools in this country. He gives the lie to the Federal Minister for Education,  Senator Carrick,  who blandly states in his guidelines that it is hoped that savings can be made in the capital works area. I suppose this means no walls at all. 
The Federal Government is certainly doing its best to enhance the unemployment prospects of young Australians. The cuts in pre-school funds show this. The report on Poverty and Education in Australia by  Dr Ron  Fitzgerald of the Commission of Inquiry into Poverty indicates that it is at this level that education funding can first assist students who did not choose their parents carefully. But there are again cuts in this area. Mind you, the Federal Minister will maintain that the States have the funds to compensate for the cuts. That is what is euphemistically called the new federalism. The trouble is that State Ministers do not agree with that dictum. Someone is lying, and on numbers alone the State Ministers are agreed about the source of this untruth. Let the Federal Government fund schools realistically and honour its responsibility first recognised in the Sputnik era. 
-The present Government parties said many things in 1975. But they have now completely lost any credibility they had in 1975. Teachers, parents, students, employers and unionists are united in their call to improve literacy, numeracy and job prospects for the young. The Government should allocate the funds which on a needs basis are required to improve the literacy skills of 4 per cent of young Australians who 'cannot read or write effectively enough to get through life'. Four per cent is the lowest for 20 years but those students still need additional assistance to get a fair go. The Government should allocate the funds needed to introduce teachers and students to work experience programs, in an attempt to increase their employability. A whole generation of students depends on such programs if the report of the Organisations for Economic Co-operation and Development entitled 'Review of Australian Education Policy' dated November 1976 is correct. In short, there is something for the poor as well as the rich. The Government should make a per capita allocation for all, not just the lucky few. That is the Government's philosophy; it has always been its dictum. Better still, the Government should let an independent Schools Commission allocate its meagre funds on a needs basis without political interference from this Government. I conclude where I started by saying that his Budget is a complete and utter disaster. 

 Mr CHAPMAN (Kingston)-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I address a question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It relates to child abductions. The Minister will recall that I raised this matter with him last May and he undertook to set up an interdepartmental committee of inquiry. He will further recall my lengthy submissions urging a number of recommendations on legislative reforms. Can the Minister now advise the House whether the committee has completed its findings? If so, what are its recommendations? When can we expect them to be implemented? Finally, he will recall that last month I requested an urgent investigation by himself and the Attorney-General into the alleged illegal activities of an organisation with the title Fathers Organisation for Revolutionary Custody Entitlement. Can he advise the House of the results of his investigations and the activities of this organisation? 
I support the Bill with some pleasure. I welcome the proposed appointment of additional judges. As the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  said, there are considerable, regrettable delays in the execution of the law. Throughout the community these delays have led to widespread disquiet, discontent and frustration. I have had deputations in my office during the last month comprised of a number of people who are extremely concerned at the application and implementation of the law. I support strongly the proposition put forward constructively by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith for a committee of inquiry to be set up as quickly as possible to study the means by which the Family Court can be made more efficient and more effective. Undoubtedly it needs some cross-fertilisation of ideas from people who have been affected by or can make a constructive contribution to this arm of the law which is extremely difficult to administer. 
I suggest that the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock)  attempt to become a member of the Constitutional Convention delegation. It would be an extremely interesting exercise for him if he became a member. I listened to 20 minutes of a reasonable speech from him. If one tears away all the fat and gets down to the meat, undoubtedly the problem is the necessity in Australia for uniform law in this area. I presume that he wants to persist with the current fragmentation. That is the disaster inflicted on the area at the moment. I have attended Constitutional Convention meetings since their resumption in 1973. 1 know how difficult it is to get some uniformity among the States. I commend the former Attorney-General and his predecessor for their efforts in this regard. It is very difficult to get uniformity. 
I think the honourable member for Parramatta should acknowledge that one of the frustrating difficulties in this country at the moment is not only in the area of family law but is equally in the area of corporate law. The fragmentation is a shambles. People can do all sorts of things, can be charged under company law in a State and can reregister over the border. Does the honourable member want that sort of thing to persist? Does he want the hardship which is inflicted on thousands of couples in this country because of the lack of uniformity of law? The problem is this lack of uniformity. This is the heart of the problem. 
While one acknowledges the regrettable number of deficiencies in the Family Court- they are deficiencies which I would strongly point out- they cannot be attributable to the Family Court. If there are any deficiencies, the reason for them lies either with the politicians who instituted the law or, more importantly, at the door of this Government because it has failed to provide sufficient funds to the Court. Those funds would inevitably have given the Court the additional staff it needs and the additional infrastructure it needs to become as efficient as it ought to be. 
I want to make what I consider to be a constructive contribution to the debate in a very important and very human area. It deals with custody. I refer to an extract by Richard Chisholm, Senior Lecturer in the Faculty of Law at the University of New South Wales. It sets out concisely the problems in relation to custody under the Family Law Act. I quote: 
When parents separate and cannot agree about the care of their children, the law usually refers to the problem as a dispute about 'custody', a word which has overtones of the prison rather than the family. Actually, a number of legal terms must be distinguished: A child's guardian is the person who is responsible for him- he has the right (and the duty) to make such decisions as where the child will live and go to school, whether he will undergo serious medical treatment, and so on. Formerly, the father was the child's guardian, but since the Family Law Act, which came into force on 5 January 1976, both parents are guardians. They have equal rights, and equal duties. The word custody usually refers to the situation after a court has determined a dispute: The parent having custody is the one who lives with and looks after the child from day to day, and makes most of the decisions affecting his life. The other parent usually has access, which amounts to the right to visit the child or have him stay with that parent at certain times. 
One of the very onerous difficulties facing the Family Court- we have often overlooked this in Australia, particularly since the Second World War- is that one third of all marriages in Australia during the last  2Vi  decades have been between people born in Australia and people bom outside of this country. The majority of those people would be from Great Britain, France, Greece, Italy and other Western European countries. They are dual nationalists. Some Family Court officers estimate that SO per cent of their inquiries are from Australian couples with different ethnic backgrounds. Their marriages are in jeopardy and they are seeking advice. It does not take much to envisage the immense problems this creates for the Family Court. These tug-of-love situations, if I can call them that, place great pressures not only on the Family Court but also on the Foreign Affairs Department. The House will recall that last May I raised with the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  the matter of the appalling level of child abductions in Australia in recent years. The Minister said that the Department of Foreign Affairs handled approximately 200 applications per month in this connection. As a result, an interdepartmental committee of inquiry was set up. I believe that the Committee has completed its findings. 
Because of my concern about child abductions and the difficulties that the Family Court faces I wrote a lengthy submission to the former Attorney-General and I shall make some reference to it. First of all, there is the problem that a number of forgeries occur when applications for passports have been endorsed. Australian passports are valid for a period of five years. One area which has frequently been exploited relates to a passport under which a child or children may be lawfully taken out of the country on a passport that may have been obtained by one or other of the parents some time before proceedings in the Family Court commenced. In those circumstances the Foreign Affairs Department is unable to act. I suggested to the former Attorney-General that in all cases where proceedings involving custody had been commenced, the parties to such proceedings should be obliged to surrender passports. Australian passports should not be reissued in their existing form without the renewed consent of either spouse or the consent of the court. In fairness, the court has the power to enforce that at present. It may ask the parties to agree to this being done but there is no obligation to do so. In situations where the custody of the child is paramount I think the passports ought to be surrendered. If neither party wants the child 's name presently on the passport to be changed during the proceedings the court need not intervene. However, if the court decides to give custody to one spouse or the other it should instruct that the passport be altered accordingly. 
Regrettably, most child abductions from this country affect people who are dual nationals holding dual passports. I do not know whether the Family Court has the power to request the surrender of foreign passports. I think it has. One of the difficulties is that the Australian Government has no jurisdiction on overseas citizens or people who travel on foreign passports. However, if a foreign passport was surrendered that would overcome this problem. It would not prevent a person going to a foreign embassy in Australia and obtaining what can be termed a replacement passport'. However, in the intervening period the Family Court could notify the foreign embassy or consular office of the court order. Regrettably, when court orders are made in relation to custody or access there is no transmission of this information from the Family Court to the Foreign Affairs Department or appropriate consular office. There has to be a greater notification of decisions made in the Family Court to the Australian Foreign Affairs Department which issues passports and is responsible for them. Equally, this information ought to be transmitted to foreign embassies and consular offices throughout Australia. If my suggestions are adopted by the Foreign Affairs Department, the same procedures should be adopted by overseas embassies and consular offices in Australia or, at least, a request should be made for them to do so. 
I acknowledge that we cannot do much about foreign citizens in Australia. However, as I said earlier, I think there has to be a greater exchange of information between the Family Court and the Foreign Affairs Department when court orders are issued particularly when they affect foreign nationals or rather those who have dual citizenship. The other thing I suggested to the former Attorney-General was that there ought to be as quickly as possible reciprocity with foreign governments overseas for the enforcement of custodial orders made in this country. This might be more the responsibility of the Minister for Foreign Affairs although it stems from the Family Law Act. An international convention for the enforcement overseas of maintenance orders is badly needed. As I recall, that undertaking was given by the former Attorney-General. This also stems directly from the Family Law Act. 
The final matter to which I draw the attention of the House is that of interstate abductions and the execution of warrants under section 64 (9) of the Family Law Act which states: 
Where an order made by a court (including a court of a prescribed overseas country) with respect to the custody of a child is in force, a court having jurisdiction under this Act may issue a warrant authorising or directing the person, or any of the persons, to whom it is addressed to take possession of the child and to deliver the child to the person entitled to custody or to some other person or authority (including a person or authority in or from a prescribed overseas country) named in the order on behalf of the person entitled to custody. 
I raised this point with the former AttorneyGeneral. Regrettably, it appears that in the case of interstate or intrastate abductions the obligation is on the parent to trace the abducting parent and then notify the police so that the warrant can be served. I urgently request that departmental investigations be initiated to find a more effective and efficient system for serving and executing warrants. I appreciate the fact that recognition of these contingencies is a civil matter and that the responsibility is on the person concerned to locate the abducting parent. When that is done the police will execute the warrant. I suggest to the Minister for Special Trade Negotiations who represents the Attorney-General, to the House and to the Government that there must be a far more effective and efficient method for parents to have a warrant executed and the child returned to them when a court order has been defied. 
Another ludicrous anomaly to which my attention was drawn-this is one of the strictures on the Family Court- is the confidentiality provmons which apply, certainly in the Social Security Act and, as I understand it, in the Repatriation Act. I have had two cases drawn to my attention in which a parent obtained through the Social Security Department the address of a spouse who had defied the Family Court order for custody and abducted the child. The name in turn was transmitted to the Department of Social Security through the Family Court, but the Department of Social Security refused to furnish the Family Court with the address of the offending parent so that the warrant could be executed. I suggest that this is another factor that must be extremely frustrating to the Family Court and to the people in these situations. I have written to the five Ministers concerned. In those two cases I have written to Ministers, asking that if the Act needs to be amended it be amended so that the Court can execute its warrants effectively and efficiently. 
Let me sum up by saying this: Undoubtedly, in this area, along with many others- particularly in this area in which so much human distress and tragedy is involved- there is an urgent need for the States to realise that if the Family Court is to remain effective and efficient there must be urgently a rationalisation and unification of laws. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 7 September 1977: 
Has he considered the recommendation in the report from the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence entitled "The Middle East-Focal Point of Conflict' that Australian Armed Services Attaches be posted to some Middle East countries; if so, what does he propose to do to ensure that Australia can independently assess the latest military technology for which the Middle East has unfortunately become the main proving ground. 
-I rise to oppose the Customs Tariff (Coal Export Duty) Amendment Bill 1977 and the Excise Tariff Amendment Bill 1977. I say to the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  that one of the most pressing issues that face this country at a national level is the crucial need to evaluate the national control, the rate of exploitation and the volume of export of perhaps the two most important hydrocarbons- coal and natural gas. I think the exploitation of both coal and natural gas, in particular, on the North West Shelf ought to be the subject of an inquiry by a joint parliamentary committee. We ought to act upon that now. I suppose that 10 years ago it would have been possible to discuss the coal industry- that is what we are doing tonight- in isolation from other sections of the mining industry. Today that is no longer possible because the coal industry is an integral part of the energy picture; it cannot be divorced from it. 
I have said previously that for a number of years prior to the establishment of the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries in 1973 all major energy companies had been diversifying their interests. One must examine this problem and the reasons for it and the consequences of it in order to understand the present situation pertaining to the Australian coal industry and the merits of the export levy. We imposed the levy at the rate of $6 a tonne; in last year's Budget it was cut to $4.50 a tonne; this year it is reduced to $3.50 a tonne; and the Government is committed to abolishing it in next year's Budget. The Government says that the levy is misconceived. I ask the honourable member for Lilley: What are the real facts behind this issue? I think we realise that the greatest advantage to be gained by oil companies, as I have said before, is to become monopolistic as far as the supply of raw materials is concerned. The control of raw materials bars new entry into the industry and allows monopolistic profits to be obtained. It is economic sense, I suggest, that those companies must gain control over all energy sources if in fact they are to retain their monopolistic position. I thought that was rather self-evident. 
Yes, because that is crucial, and that is what the ball game is all about. 
The necessity for the large oil corporations quickly to gain control of other energy sources was hastened by three major events. I suggest that the honourable member for Lilley cogitate on this. Firstly, oil company profits began to decline in the 1960s, partly due to increased competition. What was the competition at that stage? It consisted of independent companies. Secondly, the growth of environmental problems in the United States, Japan and Western Europe challenged the supremacy of oil so that oil was not in fact going to be the foremost source of energy. Thirdly, there was the problem in North Africa and the Middle East, which one could refer to as nationalism. Fourthly, and most importantly, I think, was the awareness that oil supplies would fall behind demand in the last quarter of the century. That only hastened the large companies to move into alternative sources. 
I suggest to the honourable member and I suggest to the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  who is at the table that Australia's massive coal reserves are the present target for the large corporations. We have watched that for the last five years. The Minister at the table is perhaps more aware of that than anybody else is, since he is a former New South Wales Minister for Mines. What amazes me in relation to this measure is that the large reputable corporations throughout the world foresaw this problem five, six or ten years ago. They realised that coal would become the important energy source in the world energy picture. They predicated their policies on that basis. We failed to do so. 
In the last week the results of a number of studies on the world energy outlook have been published. What do those studies forecast in regard to the demand for fossil fuels? They clearly indicate that the demand for coal is expected to increase quickly after the middle 1980s. I suggest to the honourable member for Lilley that the people who made that forecast have done their homework; he has failed to do so. A good example of that sort of forecasting is to be found in the report of the World Energy Conference which was released only a week ago. That could be coupled with the Cavendish Laboratory report. What do we find? We find that coal will be required in industry both for direct use and for making synthetic fuels, which is what I have said on many occasions. Also it will be required to balance the nuclear component in electricity generation. Those reports estimate that world coal demand in the year 2020 will be four to six times its present level. Does that indicate that there will be a decrease in coal prices? Do honourable members opposite believe that? 
In that situation, the move into coal by the large energy corporations is perfectly obvious. I have said before- I will repeat it- that there is a deliberate strategy towards monopolistic control and that such control provides a number of benefits. We sought to structure that in advance in 1974. The first benefit is that these corporations can make profits by driving up prices. As the price of other energy sources rose they would be able to maximise their profits. Secondly, as coal is a likely source of oil or gas in the future, it would give the companies marketing flexibility. I would have thought that that was obvious. That is one of the reasons for the large corporations making Australian coal their target at the present time. Thirdly, it would tend to guarantee the stability of the companies as far as coal and uranium were concerned. 
If the honourable member is not aware of it, let me point out that what obviously has happened is that both in the United States and in this country there has been a cornering of the large quantities of non-oil reserves. As I said before, we will be forced to follow these moves that have been made in the United States unless steps are taken immediately to prevent this country from losing control of its energy resources. I suggest that such American words as 'divestiture' and anti-trust', which I can claim some credit for using in this House, will soon become household words in this country unless action is taken immediately. 
I suggest that the case against foreign monopolisation of Australia's coal industry is more than just nationalistic sentiment. In the case of export prices of Australian coal, foreign ownership has tended to undermine the traditional bargaining tactics of the New South Wales coal companies which have usually co-operated in negotiating the best possible price. If any man in this chamber knows what that means it is the Minister at the table. At least when we were in government we did what we could to rationalise the bargaining position of Australian coal companies in their dealings with Japan. Even the huge repatriation of funds could be small compared with future pay-outs after the removal of the coal levy. The honourable member for Lilley overlooked that point very conveniently. The case of the Utah company illustrates the hazards to Australia of foreign ownership of key energy resources. Why did not the honourable member tell the House that when Utah was first established in this country there had to be a hue and cry in Queensland before one cent of Austraiian equity was obtained in that company? If that public outcry in Queensland had not occurred, there would not have been one cent of Australian equity in that company. 
In 1976 Utah sent back to the United States $90m; in the previous year it sent back $63m. This year it will be returning well over $ 100m to General Electric. Utah hopes to export, as I understand the situation, twenty million tonnes of coal when Norwich Park comes on stream. The saving of the $6 a tonne coal levy will then be worth a massive $126m a year to Utah. That is what this means. Is the Government seriously suggesting that we have no right to devise a mechanism by which the people get a fair return on their national asset? I have too much respect for the honourable member for Lilley to say that he does not consider that we should do something about that. 
The rate and size of the transfer of funds to Utah shareholders has increased since General Electric took over the assets of the company. The latest figure which is the result of this levy on the Utah Milling Company suggests that Utah is paying out 90 per cent of its net profits in dividends which have jumped by 2,000 per cent since 1972. That company is already making 36 per cent on money invested. It is sitting on enough coal to more than maintain its coal export levels for 100 years. That is the minimum period. In spite of its huge profits, Utah's basic philosophy is to undercut competition in coal sales. For example, its latest contracts with the Japanese steel nulls set a price of between $47.20 and slightly less than $49.00 a tonne for different types of coal. Two New South Wales South Coast producers, Bellambi and Kembla Coal and Coke, have recently negotiated prices of $52 a tonne for slightly inferior coal. It is not surprising that local companies resent Utah's approach which amounts to contempt for Australia's interests. There is no doubt about that. It is true. 
We ought to realise that fact and acknowledge it. As long as the monopoly and control in this country escalate it will exacerbate the situation. 
The situation has further deteriorated since foreign ownership bids by Esso and Shell were allowed to proceed. I repeat that only three local coal export ventures will not have significant levels of overseas ownership if the Conzinc RioTinto of Australia bid is also allowed to proceed. I repeat what I said in the House previously. The Japanese steel mills, Australia s largest customers, have also voiced their concern at the growing foreign ownership of Austraiian coal reserves. They know what will happen if it reaches the same proportion as it has in the United States and Canada. At least those countries have some foresight. We have very little. There are considerable disadvantages in Australia allowing its coal reserves to be dominated by foreign interests. This situation is being actively encouraged by this Government's policy, including its reduction of the coal levy. 
I have stated before and I forcefully repeat that the present Austraiian Government and particularly the Queensland Government have failed to recognise the real worth of our coal reserves, especially from the viewpoint of large corporations. Unless the Austraiian Government quickly comes to the realisation that our coal reserves are among the world's significant energy sources and unless it prepares a national policy for Australia's domestic energy requirements, the wealth of our natural resources will be of little consequence to this country's needs both at a national and international level. We will have written off our options. If the national Government fails to regulate the use of minerals and energy in the national interest- at least this is what it is doing with this levy- multinational corporations will use them in the interests of their world wide, vertical and horizontal conglomerate structures. 
Already in Canada and in the United States foreign investment in oil and gas has reached 90 per cent. Let us have a look at the level of foreign ownership. Twenty of the biggest oil companies control 94 per cent of the United States oil reserves. Eighteen of the largest oil companies produce 60 per cent of the natural gas. Sixteen of the 18 companies own oil shale reserves. Eleven companies own huge coal reserves. Sixteen have bought into uranium. I have repeatedly asked the Government and the people to recognise before it is too late- regrettably I think it is- that while we fiddle to try to balance the petty cash side of the national balance sheet, and at least this is one constructive attempt to do that, large energy conglomerates have deciphered the combination to the national bank vault; that is our rich national resources. That combination consists of a number of complex sequences which involve the rate of exploration, the level of exploitation, the degree of ownership and control and the volume of exports. 
On that combination rests in no small measure this country's continued economic standard and the continuity of people's wealth and their standards of living. Whatever may be said by the honourable member for Lilley, this country's future progress will be determined on how it evaluates and exploits its resources. There is no question in my mind of what the election in 1975 was about. The machinations over the last 18 months have only confirmed that. What has happened and what has continued to escalate over the last 6 months have put it beyond any doubt at all. This Government's policy, this action and this commitment to eliminate a levy which is one mechanism by which people can at least capitalise on the exploitation of what is, in fact, their asset can only escalate and strengthen the already high degree of foreign monopoly over this most important national and natural resource. 
If honourable members want confirmation of that they should look at the penetration by companies such as Shell, Esso and British Petroleum. An odd statement was made in the House the other day by the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  welcoming foreign governments which formulate subsidiaries to come in and take up rnining leases in this country. He applauds that but then condemns any government in this country, national or State, which seeks to do exactly the same thing. I find that odd, to say the least. I warn the Government now that it should take action urgently on two crucial issues- the level of control of coal reserves and the control of exploitation of natural gas deposits. These issues ought to be the subject of a joint parliamentary committee of inquiry. They ought to be acted upon now. I oppose the measure. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 6 September 1977: 
Can he say whether in some overseas countries, in what is known as the Lethal Dose SO per cent test, the following substances have been forced down live animals' throats to ascertain what amounts will kill SO percent of the animals so treated: weed killers, packaging materials, toiletries, detergents, floor polishes and anti-freeze liquids. 
If so, have any of these or similar materials been Lethal Dose SO per cent tested in Australia. 
Is the Lethal Dose SO per cent test performed in Australia for non-medical research. 
If so, are any of the laboratory animals force fed by means of a tube into the stomach, with the substance being tested. 
If the Lethal Dose SO per cent test is performed in Australia, is the person conducting the experiment obliged to publish, or otherwise make known, whether the deaths of the 50 per cent of live animals used was due to the toxicity of the substance tested, or due to the rupture of the stomach or other organ malfunction. 
What alternatives are there to the use of live animals for toxicological experiments. 
Can he say whether in the United Kingdom in 1972, less than one-third of the experiments conducted on live animals were for medical research; if so, what is the corresponding proportion in Australia. 
Is Australia amongst the few places on earth where it is Still possible for a person to experiment on live animals held under the influence of curare. 
What tests have been carried out in Australia on live animals for the benefit of research in other countries. 
10) Will the Government take steps to control legally Lethal Dose SO per cent testing of non-medical products and ensure that this practice is subject to adequate inspection. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 24 May 1977: 
1 ) Further to the answer to question No. 162, is it important that statistics should be kept on the import and domestic production of 8-cylinder engines, in view of recent moves in the United States to phase out 8-cylinder engine productions, and in view of Australia's diminishing petroleum reserves. 
Will he take up this matter with the Bureau of Statistics and the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 17 August 1977: 
1 ) Does he recall my persistent questions on the need for adequate national legislation for the supervision of insurance brokers. 
Did his Assistant Minister announce on 11 March 1977 that following a lengthy investigation it had been resolved to leave this area to self-regulation. 
Has his attention been drawn to Press reports in March 1977 indicating that a round-up of five insurance companies produced three who had suffered problems from broker failures and that known losses suffered by these companies, and other companies they were aware of, totalled about $750,000. 
If so, did the reports indicate that (a) Company one had suffered a loss of $250,000 through the collapse of a broker, in which a total of seven companies lost $500,000, (b) Company two lost $50,000 through the collapse of a different broker and (c) Company three estimated losses of between $100,000 and $250,000 because of the collapse of various brokers during the last five years. 
5 ) Are there 1 80 general insurers in Australia whose total losses calculated on the same basis would run into millions of dollars. 
Has his attention also been drawn to the Insurance Brokers' Registration Bill which was introduced as a private Member's Bill in the United Kingdom Parliament, with Government support, early in 1977. 
If so, is he able to say whether the Bill has now become law and that, as a consequence, the pattern of activities of the British insurance brokers is now subject to close scrutiny and control. 
Can he say whether the British insurance brokers would have preferred self-regulation but that such a course had been found to be both ineffective and deficient by the United Kingdom Parliament. 
Can he also say whether the United Kingdom legislation provides (a) for the establishment of an Insurance Brokers' Registration Council which decides whether or not applicants should be registered, (b) that the Council will consist of 17 members, 12 of whom will be nominated by the insurance broking industry and five, one of whom shall be a lawyer and one an accountant, to be nominated by the Government, (c) that the Council will evaluate applicants' qualifications, experience, their financial backing and their independence from insurance underwriters and (d) that the Council will require members to submit to a code of ethical behaviour to be set down and to maintain proper accounting and financial reporting standards. 
10) In view of the alarming number of brokerage firms in Australia which have passed into liquidation because of either mismanagement or incompetence or both, and left many members of the public with the burden of financial risk, is it considered proper that anyone is free to set up as an insurance broker without qualifications, without restrictions and with no funds to indemnify clients. 
1 1 ) As the United Kingdom has considered it necessary to introduce legislation and as the general insurance legislation is largely patterned on the United Kingdom Insurance Act, will he initiate an immediate investigation and evaluation of the new United Kingdom brokers legislation with a view to introducing national legislation for the supervision of insurance brokers as speedily as possible. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 18 August 1977: 
1 ) With reference to my question without notice to the Minister representing the Attorney-General on 4 April 1973  (Hansard,  page 1041) asking (a) whether the Minister's attention had been drawn to a reported financial loss totalling $ 1 7m incurred by member companies of the Alexander Barton group, (b) if the money raised to finance the activities of the group drew benefits under the Commonwealth taxation law and (c) if, in view of the Commonwealth's interest in the matter, the Minister would take immediate steps to have the matter referred for full inquiry by the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange, has his attention been drawn to the statement of  Mr Berman,  S.M., at the first committal proceedings of Alexander and Thomas Barton on charges of making false and misleading statements, that the question of the liability of the Barton company in question to taxation was relevant to the issue of whether Alexander and Thomas Barton had made a false statement in relation to the profits of the company. 
Did the Commissioner of Taxation obtain a sequestration order against the estate of Thomas Barton; if so, what has been the outcome in relation to enforcing it. 
As the Minister responsible for foreign exchange control, will he state whether any charge has been laid against Alexander or Thomas Barton or any of their companies involving breaches of the Banking (Foreign Exchange) Regulations; if so, what was the outcome of the charge. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 13 September 1977: 
As the proportion of life insurance statutory funds total assets invested in equity shares has increased from 1 1.3 per cent in 1966 to 16.5 per cent in 1976 and now amounts to over $ 1,500m, will he provide details of which companies and in which industries these ordinary shares are held. 
-During the taking of evidence by the sub-committee on the Middle East of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, of which I was a member, I pressed the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock),  because of the huge military arsenals in some Middle East countries, for an answer as to why we had not one military attache assigned to any Australian embassy throughout the Middle East. On 7 September I put the very same matter to the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  and the reply I received from both Ministers was that the matter was being considered. The subcommittee received extremely important evidence in relation both to weaponry and its strategic and technical applications. Let me quote from the sub-committee's evaluation. The subcommittee in its report stated: 
The committee commenced in some detail on the immense arsenals of modern weapons in the Middle East. The truth is that there are as many combat aircraft and tanks in the troubled region as there are in the possession of NATO forces. Furthermore, the fact is that the weapons are periodically tested in short but fierce Middle East wars . . . Australia must comprehend the military facts of the region and this calls for the presence of Armed Services Attaches in Israel and some of the Arab countries- preferably Egypt and Syria- 
These countries are the largest recipients of Soviet military assistance outside of the communist bloc- in order to assess not only equipment and tactical doctrine at first hand, but the strategic realities. 
While acknowledging that the region is an important source of military information, the Committee received counter-arguments that such information has been obtained from the regular exchange of information with friendly countries, from which Australian ambassadors have compiled reports. Furthermore, it was argued that the appointment of Australian Armed Services Attaches could arouse suspicions about our interests in the area and would perhaps provide false hopes for Australian assistance in military training and supplies, without providing compensation benefits. 
The report went on to state: 
Dependence on derived military information or misinformation, however, can be disastrous. 
To appreciate the urgent need for Australia to be self sufficient in the evaluation of the most rapid modern advances in military hardware and its implications and why the Middle East is so important in the evaluation, let me briefly draw the attention of the Minister for Foreign Affairs to the problem currently facing the United States of America. The United States Administration has blocked plans to sell FI 8 fighters to Iran on the grounds that the plane had not been deployed by United States forces, but seeks to sell the airborne warning system which is not under deployment either. It is seeking to sell FISs-the most advanced fighter in the United States inventory-to Saudi Arabia which has also bought Sidewinder missiles. The planes and missiles are capable of destroying planes the United States has sold to Israel and Iran, a rival of Saudi Arabia. I state that only to indicate the type of weaponry being injected into the Middle East area. 
Let me give just a few examples of the information it might be possible for Australian military attaches to acquire were they situated on the ground in the confrontation states of the Middle East. First, in the area, of equipment and technologies, all branches of Australia's defence forces could learn much from the deployment and use in the Middle East of conventional weapons which are not only the most sophisticated now in existence but which are also directly related to Australia's defence. For example, in 1973 when Australia was deliberating on a choice between the American M60 and German Leopard tanks, an Australian military attache could have gained first hand information about the operational problems and design advantages, or faults, of the M60 which was used by the Israelis during the Yom Kippur war. We could hardly expect the Americans to pass on information to us about the M60 which might have helped us to decide on the German tank. 
However, the Israelis are now deploying a revolutionary tank known as the 'Chariot', which incorporates the valuable, if unfortunate, combat experiences of the most recent war. Among its interesting features, the 'Chariot' has shell-resistant armour and an infantry carrying capacity. We need to be able to talk first hand to the people involved in designing the tank. We need actually to see it in operation and we need to absorb the ideas incorporated in the tank which are relevant to Australian conditions. 
The Israelis also deploy the American Ml 13 armoured personnel carrier. Australia has over 700 of them. They have modified their Ml 13s according to the lessons learned from combat experience. They discovered that by seating the troops in the centre of the vehicle rather than on the sides, as we do, they were better protected from land mines. This is a simple modification, but one which could save Australian lives should we ever have to fight again. Surely we have a responsibility to acquire and evaluate this type of assessment. 
On the other side of the conflict, Syria and Egypt deploy Soviet tanks which could quite conceivably be supplied, even if it is in the far distant future, to countries hostile to this country. An Australian military attache in these countries could acquire important information about the capabilities and problems of these tanks and about Soviet methods of deployment. I might suggest to the Minister that one could imagine that the Egyptians would be more willing to discuss the problems associated with Soviet equipment now that there is a rift between this protege and its former patron. The same arguments apply to aircraft and naval vessels. The Israelis now have deployed the FIS Eagle together with the E2c Hawkeye early warning and control system. They are negotiating to acquire the F 16 and to produce some of its components. The Saudi Arabians are purchasing FISs and the Omanis are purchasing the British Jaguar. Australia is in the process, as I understand it, of taking a costly decision as to the most appropriate replacement aircraft for the Mirage. We could clearly acquire important information from independent sources which do not have a vested interest in our decision if we had military attaches on the ground in the Middle East. This information could extend beyond the operational capabilities of the aircraft and early warning systems to the important issue of co-production arrangements. I would like to conclude my remarks by quoting again from the sub-committee's assessment. The sub-committee stated: 
Further, the Committee feels that objections to appointing Australian Armed Services Attaches in the Middle East are outweighed by the fact that it would be unlikely that our allies would be assessing the military situation in Israel and the Arab countries in terms of the lessons that need to be drawn from an Australian perspective- the perspective of a comparatively small power with a potential military manpower shortage as is the case with Israel. In conflict, or in a precarious military balance in peace, the valid assessment of strategic and military factors is one key to understanding the politics, the policies and the potential dangers in a region. 
During the Yom Kippur war in 1973, for instance, Australia would have had an excellent opportunity to obtain independently up to date information on some of the world 's most sophisticated weapons and their tactical employment, including information on Western equipment which might be under consideration for Australian purchase. The only persons who can perform a thorough evaluation are those who possess the relevant expertise; Australia would be unwise to rely completely on the assessment of our potential arms donors as it would be unrealistic to expect them to stress the shortcomings of any of their equipment that Australia may wish to purchase. 
I inform the Minister that it seems quite odd to me that although one of the biggest arsenals and weaponry in the world is established in the Middle East we as a nation have to rely on foreign embassies with military attaches to give us advice. To say the least, I think that is a ludicrous situation. 
To sum up: There were very good reasons for the sub-committee of the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence to recommend that Australian ambassadors in Israel, Egypt and Syria should have available to them Australian armed services attaches. Those reasons remain valid today. I trust they will not only be taken into consideration by the Department of Defence and the Department of Foreign Affairs but also will lead to action in conformity with the considered opinions of the Committee. 
Progress reported. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 16 August 1977: 
Will he inform the House of any specific proposals the Government has to stimulate the interest of small investors in the Australian securities market, and, in particular, will it be suggesting any changes to existing companies and securities legislation for the purpose of encouraging the smaller investor to participate in the stock market. 
I address my remarks to the estimates for the Department of National Resources. Last September the Minister for National Resources  (Mr Anthony)  tabled the report of the National Energy Advisory Committee on proposals for an Australian energy conservation program. In my view it was a waste of both print and utterance. There is little or nothing in the report that has not already been more lucidly and cogently stated. Most of the recommendations of the Committee concerning conservation, which is by far the most important aspect of energy conservation, were covered in far greater detail by the Royal Commission on Petroleum particularly in its fourth report which was handed to the Government last year. In fact the key recommendation of the report only recently rejected by this Government was the establishment of an industry agency to reform the current shambles which purports to be a petroleum marketing system and to prepare an energy conservation program. 
The first recommendation of NEAC, if I can refer to it as such, is that the Government in collaboration with the States, institute a conservation program and that a special group within the Department of National Resources be established to oversee its implementation. That recommendation is made 18 months after the recommendations of the Royal Commission. We are back to square one. NEAC lists as one of its topics for investigation the review of the motor vehicle exhaust emission standards. Marvellous! The 900-page fifth report of the Royal Commission on Petroleum in October last year devoted a large section to this question. The partial replacement of motor spirit by liquefied petroleum gas gets a one paragraph notation in the report. It was the subject of 250 pages in the sixth report presented last year. 
Now a number of State governments have prepared reports on energy needs. The report of the South Australian Committee on Energy was presented last year. The Victorian Green Paper was presented in March this year. Both are much more comprehensive in the surveys on energy and conservation than the NEAC report. It is the Government which is responsible for the lack of action on energy conservation. It has ample information from local and overseas sources to inform it on what is required on any energy conservation program, but it has used NEAC as an instrument to delay any forms of effective action. The reasons are obvious. An energy policy will be expensive; it will mean an increase in staff; it will mean that some measures taken within Federal Government departments will be unpopular. The Government is not willing to take effective action for those three basic reasons. 
Let me expose some of the glaring anomalies. One has only to turn to the thorny question of allocation. The system of allocation of Australian crude was devised when there was no energy crisis. Indeed there was a penalty associated with its use. The original price was a bit over $2 a barrel above world parity. The system was devoted so as not to penalise any one company heavily for its absorption of indigenous crude oil. Nowadays the price is only one-third of world parity price so a huge advantage falls to each company to which crude is allocated. The allocation to any oil company is determined by the levels of sales of certain petroleum products, called Category A products, during a stipulated period. 
Whilst there appears to be substantial benefit to Australia through lower than world average prices, there are anomalies which are not, I declare, in the national interest. Let us look at some. Firstly, Category A products- which are almost exclusively produced from imported crude- include at least one anomaly. Secondly, there are not specific incentives for an oil company to produce the nationally much needed transport fuels rather than the substitutable fuel oil. Thirdly, products imported in their finished state may qualify for an allocation of Australian crude oil. Fourthly, some fuels, for example inland sales, may in metropolitan areas qualify for an allocation whilst other fuel oils, that is OF sales usually made in remote mining areas, do not. The advantage to companies of about $40 per tonne from making inland sales rather than CIF sales means that they are reluctant to move fuel out of metropolitan sales where strong competition exists, especially for natural gas, into CIF sales where the demand is met entirely by imported products. This has led to a situation in which, in order to retain a strong hold in metropolitan markets, companies have reduced fuel oil prices to as low as $35 per tonne compared with the maximum Prices Justification Tribunal approved price of $74 per tonne. We ought to look at that. As a consequence of the failure of companies to balance national supply and demand by shipping fuel oil which is surplus in metropolitan areas to remote areas where it is in short supply, the Australian coastal fleet is under-utilised while ships used for imports fly flags of convenience. It is a disgrace. 
The sixth anomaly is that companies attempt to base their pricing decisions on faulty economics. Prices for instrumental parcels of allocation products are often determined as though incremental indigenous crude oil was available as a result of their sales. With indigenous crude oil production finite and supplying less than 70 per cent of Australian needs, this clearly is not correct. The National Country Party ought to make some observations and listen to this: Repeatedly representations have been made to the Department of National Resources to have the allocation formula changed. The split nature of fuel oil, where some fuel oil qualifies for an allocaton and some does not as mentioned before, is not in the national interest for the following reasons: Consumers in remote areas of Australia are paying $70 to $80 per tonne for fuel oil whilst their counterparts in the city are paying less than half this figure due to the allocation formula. 
In Sydney alone there is developed a surplus of some 500,000 to 1,000,000 tonnes per annum of fuel oil which the oil companies claim cannot be processed into transportation fuel because of the limitation of refinery capacity. The lead time for a correction of the situation would be some three to four year and, to my knowledge, no oil company has yet committed itself to this further expenditure. This surplus, which is causing a price depression, could be eliminated completely by a program of trans-shipping fuel oil from metropolitan to remote areas. This could be encouraged immediately by a change to the allocation formula. 
As a consequence of what I have mentioned, Australia is paying out perhaps $100m per annum unnecessarily in foreign exchange and consumers of fuel oil in the country's remote areas are paying about $20m more than they ought to pay. It ought to be noted that in 1976, if my recollection is correct, about 2 million tonnes of fuel oil were imported into Australia as a finished product. The allocation formula was struck in the energy-wise days of 2968 to solve the national problem of spreading more equitably over all oil companies a small penalty involved in the above world average price of Aus.tralian crude oil. I submit that the scene in 1977 is vastly different from that in 1968. There is an energy crisis. Energy prices have risen dramatically. Australian energy resources are being misallocated and manipulated. I strongly recommend to the House that it closely examine the serious anomalies of national resource usage which has been generated in a way intended by the architects of the allocation system and more rapidly than intended to achieve the elimination of these obvious and glaring anomalies 
I have not time to deal with the Industries Assistance Commission report on diesel fuel except to say that it states, in part, that the situation results in a serious misallocation of resources but that changes in the allocation formula have not been made by the Government because they 'would introduce anomalies and distortions which would upset the established market patterns of the industry'. Who fixes, who manipulates, who distorts the established market patterns? The answer to that is not hard to find. It is the comanies that dominate and control them. I suggest to the Minister for National Resources that it is about time he required his Department to look at what is in fact causing the distortion, which is the marketing pattern of the allocation in this country. 
My question is directed to the Minister for National Resources. In view of the national importance of the vast energy reserves locked into the North West Shelf and adjacent areas, will the Minister table the heads of agreement and other relevant documents giving the North West Shelf consortium the right to export natural gas and condensate subject to the results of a feasibility study? Has the Government the right to alter any forms of agreement if it can be demonstrated that the markets for the gas can be better supplied through export from Sydney? Finally, will the Government agree to a select committee conducting a parallel study on marketing the gas through Sydney to determine whether Australian development needs can be better served by a trans-continental pipeline? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science, upon notice, on 17 August 1977: 
1 ) Has the Minister's attention been drawn to reports that several countries, especially the United States of America, have, for some years, been investigating the feasibility of using Antarctic icebergs as a source of fresh water. 
In view of the need for high grade fresh water in Australia, and this country's favourable geographical position for the possible exploitation of the new technique, would it be wise for the Government to encourage the development of skills and knowledge about the exploitation of this important resource, so that in future years we will be able to take immediate advantage of technical advances which may be made. 
Will the Government consider the advisability of (a) inviting the Australian Academy of Science to report, within a year, on the present state of technology in this area, and (b) offering the necessary financial support needed for the preparation of the report. 

 -Mr Deputy Chairman, I must confess that I cannot be as complimentary to the Government as the previous  speaker  was. This year's Budget paints a very bleak picture for transport in South Australia. The allocation this year for roads is $40.4m, despite a recommendation from the Bureau of Roads that the State should receive $58.6m. This allocation represents only a 4 per cent increase over last year's allocation, at a time when construction and maintenance costs have increased by 14 per cent. This is a significant reduction in the effective value of road funds. South Australia will receive less for roads in 1977- 78 than it did two years ago. It is the only State in this position. Furthermore, the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  said that funds for 1978- 79 and 1979-80 will not increase in real terms over this year's allocation. Totally inadequate road funding is to be this Government's policy for the remainder of the decade. 
The Government's policies are blatantly discriminatory against South Australia. South Australia is receiving proportionately less of the total Commonwealth road grant each year. The sum has fallen from 1 1.5 per cent in 1967-68 to 8.5 per cent in 1977-78 despite the fact that South Australia has 9.1 per cent of the population of Australia, according to 1976 figures, and 12.8 per cent of the land area. Worse, South Australia is required by the Federal Government to contribute an increasing percentage of the Commonwealth grant to qualify for its Commonwealth allocation. In 1973-74 the State's quota was 54 per cent of the Commonwealth grant whereas the quota for 1977-78 is 92 per cent. For this year South Australia must increase its own contribution by almost 9 per cent- more than double the size of the Commonwealth's increase. 
At a meeting of the Australian Transport Advisory Council in Hobart in February this year all 
State Ministers argued strongly that the present system of road categories was a burden on the States and ought to be reduced. After some debate the Federal Minister for Transport handed out a statement to each State showing the Commonwealth allocations which already had been approved by the Commonwealth Government for 1977-78 and which perpetuated the system of road categorisation. It was discovered later that the Minister had issued a Press statement on the allocations before the meeting had assembled. The Minister's arrogant and ill-mannered behaviour reached a new low at the ATAC meeting in Perth. At the last moment he informed the State Ministers who had already assembled that he was unable to attend the meeting at the instruction of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  On the following day he attended a national meeting of the Country Party in Perth. We assume from that that in the opinion of the Minister a national meeting of the Country Party in Perth has priority over consideration of road grants. It was an act of gross discourtesy and every State Minister knows this. We can clearly see the level to which transport policy has fallen in Australia. 
I turn now to the Adelaide to Crystal Brook standard gauge project. It provides another example of this Government's shabby treatment to South Australia. Not a cent was provided in this Budget for that project. In 1970 the present Federal Minister for Transport- he was Federal Minister for Transport at that time also- discussed the proposals with the State Minister. One of the matters discussed was the possibility of converting the existing broad gauge line to standard gauge, a proposition actively promoted by the then South Australian Railways Commissioner. The Federal Minister rejected out of hand any suggestion that the work should be undertaken in any way other than that recommended in the Maunsell report. The Minister who said that is in the chamber tonight. He repeated his stand on no fewer than six occasions. What is the sum total of all these discussions? This vital project was deferred and deferred and deferred again. It was not until the Labor Party was elected to Government in 1972 that the two Ministers concerned got together and quickly reached agreement. 
In 1974 the Adelaide-Crystal Brook Standard Gauge Railway Agreement Act was ratified by the South Australian Parliament and the Federal Parliament. When the Liberal-National Country Party Government was returned to power in 1975 the delay commenced again. In February 1976 the South Australian Minister of Transport discussed finance for the project with the current Federal Minister. He received an unqualified assurance - 
-Yes, the Minister gave that assurance. He said that the project would proceed along the lines contained in the Maunsell report but in May the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  announced that a committee was to be established to review the project. The Fraser Government had already shown its predilection for committees of inquiry to be used as instruments to delay and destroy projects begun by the Labor Government and this committee was to prove no exception. 
In the first place the committee was not established for months after the Treasurer's announcement. When the committee finally presented its report on 24 December 1976 it found, not surprisingly, that there was no economic justification for implementation of the Maunsell plan. There was a complete volte-face. There certainly were some changes. The Minister must get lost. The committee was established to reach precisely this conclusion. What the committee also found, however, was that there were no economic reasons for provision of the standard gauge link to Adelaide and the report presented an alternative plan which involved converting 1S4 kilometres of the existing line to standard gauge, thereby considerably reducing the cost of the project. This alternative basically was accepted by the South Australian Government. We went back to the late 1960s. The committee of inquiry also made another important recommendation, recommendation D, which was as follows: 
It is essential that decisions on the future of the line be reached and announced quickly. The Government and people of South Australia have a right to know. In addition railway and industry planning is affected by persistent doubt. 
Nine months later the doubts still exist. The Government and the people of South Australia still do not know the Commonwealth Government's intentions towards the standardisation project. I ask the Minister: What are his intentions? Is he going to give an indication of them at the end of this debate? I doubt it. The Minister's Press release on the Budget allocations for transport contained only the following statement: 

 Mr Nixon said the Government had also decided  . . because of the difficult economic situation not to provide funds in 1977-78 for the construction of the standard gauge railway connection to Adelaide. 
There is no doubt about that. Another consideration applicable to any aspect of transport policy for the future is Australia's energy situation. The 
National Energy Advisory Committee noted in its recent proposals for an Australian conservation of energy program: 
Rail transport of freight is generally much more economic in the use of fuel than road transport, and surface transport is similarly preferred to air transport. The relative amounts and types of fuel used in these various forms of transport should be taken into account in planning changes to the transportation systems. 
The Minister for Transport is in this chamber and the allocation of fuel comes within the responsibilities of a portfolio held by his compatriot. What is the Minister for Transport going to do about this? He did nothing for 23 years so we cannot expect him to do much in two years. The Adelaide-Crystal Brook standardisation project would provide Adelaide with an efficient economical link with the eastern States where over 85 per cent of the white goods manufactured in South Australia are sold. Under the Fraser Government, transport policy has gone backwards. The Federal Minister for Transport has behaved repeatedly in an arrogant and deceitful manner and I regret to have to say it. His policies have discriminated against South Australia in a very despicable way. The Government and the Minister should be condemned for their failure to implement a rational national and contractive policy. 
-I am delighted to hear the honourable member for Cook say so. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 16 August 1977: 
1 ) Were there 30 applicants outstanding for authorisation under the authorisation provisions of the Insurance Act 1973 as at 30 June 1976. 
Which companies received authorisation during 1976-77. 
Has his attention been drawn to recently published reports expressing concern by both the Victorian Government and the Insurance Industry that three or four insurance companies are on the verge of collapse, and are operating without authorisation. 
If so, will he refer this matter to the Commissioner for Insurance for urgent investigation and report, to ensure that policy holders ' rights to cover are secure. 
-In speaking to the estimates for the Attorney-General's Department, may I say that it is sometimes alleged that laws fawn upon the rich and spurn the poor. As my very good friend, the Leader of the Opposition in the Victorian Upper House, is wont to put it, for the administration of justice poverty is a crime and wealth is a virtue. To put it in another way, steal a loaf of bread, as the British were wont to say in the 19th century, and go to gaol. However, if you steal a railway you can be assured of a seat in the House of Lords. Regrettably, rarely, if ever, do rich men go to gaol. Gaols are full of people who have not got a cent. What greater proof of this is there than in our present laws relating to corporate crime and the treatment of what is termed white collar crime. 
-Let us look at that. The evidence to support this claim appears daily on the front pages of our newspapers. As the  Australian Financial Review  put it a brief period ago: 
Are all these, at worst, just a clutch of rotten apples- or is much of the business barrel rotten? The presumption is strong that these illegal practices are common. 
It is ironic to see the great hullabaloo raised in reaction to the current spate of bank holdups with some governments making all sorts of noises about getting tough with bandits. Yet they sit on their hands when confronted with what is at least as big a problem- corporate and white collar crime. Is it because those bandits wear white collars and may be the Government's political supporters? Of all the Medibank frauds involving doctors- amounts have totalled hundreds of thousands of dollars- to my knowledge only one doctor has been sent to gaol. Yet, a 21 -year-old cleaner from Darlinghurst was sentenced to 12 months gaol for defrauding the Department of Social Security of a little more than $1,100. This type of discrimination should not exist in our society. One wonders how true is the saying: 'You are guilty until proven rich'. Is the law at fault or is it that we take a different view of white collar criminals who fleece the public of millions of dollars each year with their only crime being to be caught? 
I remind the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  that corporate collapses over the last seven years have cost investors and lenders more than one billion dollars. Why is it that armed holdups can stimulate immediate action by governments while the thief with the pen rather than the pistol can continue his depredations? This question has important ramifications for the health of society. It breeds disrespect for law in general, and it emphasises social and economic divisions for white collar crooks to be seen to be getting away with fraudulent practices. The succession of acquittals of white collar crooks accused of wrongdoings completely negates any deterrent effect that the criminal provisions of our laws might have. In a recent case in Melbourne a married couple with a six-year old daughter were both sentenced to three months gaol for attempting to obtain a little over $31,000 from the tertiary education allowance scheme by making false claims. The magistrate said that he was embarrassed by the penalties that other magistrates had handed down to doctors on fraud charges. Cheating on Medibank, I suggest, is no less a crime than petty thieving or dole cheating. Surely doctors should have no special rights to exemption because of their social or professional status. 
The dismissal of charges against Alexander and Thomas Barton on 27 June this year for alleged breaches of the New South Wales Securities Industry Act and the Crimes Act vividly illustrates a problem which I have spoken about in this House on numerous occasions, namely, the problem of convicting corporate criminals. I raised that issue in 1973. The Bartons ought to have been indicted under the provisions of the taxation evasion legislation. I cannot get the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  to answer the question why proceedings have not been taken on those grounds. Again, it seems that corporate wrongdoers, with expensive lawyers as their hired guns, have been able to escape liability for their actions which have cost the ordinary investor millions of dollars. Defence lawyers usually ensure that cases of this nature are tried by jury. The jury more often than not is comprised of laymen and due to the complexity of the issues involved it is impossible for them to comprehend the legal technicalities. This is an anomaly, I suggest, in the law which must certainly be looked Unto if justice is to be carried out. 
In many cases, corporate criminals tend to be the most respectable and powerful men in the community. Many, of course, have titles, the right school tie and obviously the right connections. These people who should be setting an example of honesty for the rest of the community are instead often stealing the life savings of those less fortunate. I think we ought to appreciate, with all due respect to the honourable member for St George, the two special qualities applicable to corporate crime. Firstly, corporate criminals are sophisticated and deliberative businessmen who engage in crime only after carefully calculating the benefits and the costs. Secondly, as Professor of Law, Christopher Stone, has written in  Where the Law Ends: 
. we have arranged things so that the people who call the shots do not have to bear the full risks; 
If the likelihood of getting caught and the penalties for getting caught are sufficiently great,otential business law violators should be able to iterally calculate that crime does not pay. We fail in fact to do that. Looking at the question of inadequate laws, the previous Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  stressed that legislation envisaged would basically be the same as existing State legislation in the member States of the Interstate Corporate Affairs Commission. What does that mean? It means law by the lowest common denominator. By the time the six States get around to drafting laws, criminals will be about six steps ahead of them. Honourable members should look at the sympathetic attitude of conservative States. Consider the controversy in Victoria relating to the Victorian Government's Housing Commission land deals with Lensworth Finance. In less than a month $1.5m was taken from the public. One wonders whether the members of that Government collaborate with the crooks. I ask the honourable member for St George: Can he justify it? Can he apologise for it? Or would he be kind enough to explain it to me? Can we expect the usual dearth of convictions and the usual crop of knighthoods? That is what we can expect. 
I want to make these observations quickly. It is my belief that the current ramshackle company law system in Australia is structured to protect the criminal to the detriment of the honest. If the States had any semblance of political honesty they would retitle their Companies Acts and call them 'Company Directors Protection Acts'. How long will it be before this Government will grasp the nettle and introduce comprehensive national legislation to control public companies and the securities industry? It nas a responsibility to the public as a whole to clean up this mess. This Government is very swift to bring in legislation to shackle the trade union movement, but it has a total reluctance to bring in legislation to straighten up corporate crime or white collar crime. I suppose it is because there are so many lawyers on the other side. It does not want a sense of nationality or rational and constructive legislation because this area represents a harvest for them. 
In terms of company and securities law, I believe that it is investment in the broad sense, both public and private, that has to be protected. Honourable members on the Government side believe that private investment is the life blood of prosperity in all countries. Until this Government sets down reasonable laws and regulations to control the stock exchange it will do nothing to induce investment in this area, which is so important. I conclude with one truism. My father was wont to say: 'You will find as you go through life, son, that there are plenty of sheriffs of Nottingham and few Robin Hoods. To the former you give knighthoods and the latter you hang'. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Dr Jenkins)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice, on 6 September 1977: 
1 ) Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a meeting of 152 unsecured creditors of AUS Travel, at which the creditors were informed that recorded losses total over $ 100,000 mostly relating to charterflights at the end of 1 977 and that these losses may be significantly higher than $100,000. 
If so, can the Minister supply any information concerning (a) the total number of creditors of the Company and (b) the order of the potential loss to be borne by student members of the company. 
Is the Minister able to say whether students were encouraged to pay several months in advance the total amount of their air fares because of the explicit statement in the AUS Travel brochure that all flights are subject to Government approval and that conditions of carriage are subject to change by Government decision. 
If so, does the licensing of charter flight operations to do business in this way commit the Government to act as guarantor of AUS Travel flights; if not, why not. 
Should uniform legislation apply in respect of the reimbursing of persons who suffer loss from the failure of travel companies; if so, what action does the Minister intend to take to implement this. 
Was the Prime Minister reported in  Hansard,  16 August 1977, pages 1 and 15, as saying that the Commonwealth has responsibilities for students throughout the whole of Australia and that it is concerned to see that the arrangements that they might want to make in this area are appropriate and that student interests are properly safeguarded. 
If so, what does the Government see as its responsibilities to student creditors of AUS Travel. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 16 August 1977: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the report in the  Australian Financial Review  of 14 April 1977 that an American manufacturer of off-shore oil and gas drilling equipment, J. Ray McDermott and Company of New Orleans, Louisiana, had disclosed in a report to the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, that it had paid more than $US 1 m in bribes to officials of foreign governments, including Australia. 
If so, has this company or any subsidiary or affiliate been registered in any jurisdiction in Australia. 
If the answer to part (2) is in the affirmative, (a) under what names was the Company or were its associates registered and in which jurisdictions, (b) what are the names, addresses and occupations of the past and present directors, (c) have the accounts of the companies been lodged as required by the companies legislation and (d) do the accounts disclose the making of questionable payments and the recipients of them. 
Will he arrange for the inspection by an Australian Government representative of the public records of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission relating to this company and release any information about bribes to Australian officials as is revealed in those documents. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1977: 
1 ) Does the Government support the recommendations of the National Energy Advisory Committee that rail transport of freight is generally much more economical in the use of fuel than road transport, and that the relative amounts and types of fuel used in these various forms of transport should be taken into account in planning changes to the transportation systems. 
If so, will the Government reconsider its decision to cut off funds for the Crystal Brook-Adelaide standardisation project, a project which would improve the competitiveness of rail transport from Adelaide to the Eastern States. 
asked the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 18 October 1977: 
1 ) Is it intended to review the cases of all ex-service pensioners receiving tuberculosis pensions. 
If not, which tuberculosis pensioners will be entitled to retain their pensions without review. 
If pensions for pulmonary tuberculosis are to be withdrawn from ex-service personnel, will they retain these pensions while trying to establish a right to other disability allowances. 
Does the Government intend to adopt the recommendation of  Mr Justice  Toose to define 'suffering from pulmonary tuberculosis' in the Act. 
How much does the Government expect to save annually by these changes. 
Under what circumstances will Vietnam veterans qualify for a pension for pulmonary tuberculosis. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 8 September 1977: 
1 ) In view of the Prime Minister's recent commitment to support small business, does he endorse the views expressed by bis predecessor in a Press statement on 31 May 1977 relating to the retail side of the oil industry. 
Does he also endorse his predecessor's commitment that, while rejecting the establishment of an oil industry agency recommended by the Royal Commission on Petroleum, it was basic to the philosophy of the Government that as far as possible the economy operated according to market forces. 
Has his attention been drawn to an article in the Adelaide  Advertiser  of 27 June 1977 regarding Adelaide petrol resellers. If so, does it accurately summarise the abuses and injustices currently pervading the industry. 
Is it considered by the Government that there is a need for urgent action in this area. 
Does the Government recognise the apparent need for such companies as Southern Cross Petroleum Pty Ltd which offers some protection to these dealers. 
With reference to the ruling by the Trade Practices Commission that tenant dealers have the right to buy 50 per cent of their supplies from other than the company to which they are tied, will he provide legal protection to tenant dealers, by way of access to arbitration, in respect of disputes with the oil companies. 
What action has been taken on these matters raised in my question No. 152 of9 March 1977. 
Do current industry statistics show that average service station volumes have not altered during the last 3 years. 
Has every independent review of the oil industry shown, that the ownership, control and operation of retail petrol outlets have been manipulated to maximise benefits to the oil majors at the expense of consumers, lessee dealers and independent dealers. 
10) If so, and if the oil companies rationalise their selling outlets as they desire, will this end price cutting and thus place the motorist at the mercy of the oil companies. 
Does the Government intend to re-introduce the Rural Price Equalisation Scheme or will this area be left to market forces. 
Does his Department have information on how many of the recently closed petrol outlets sold less than 5,000 gallons a month and conformed to the Royal Commission on Petroleum's description of many previously closed outlets as pumps of convenience in yards, factories and business sites, where economics in terms of distribution costs, pump utilisation and maintenance became too unfavourable to  De  persisted in. If so, what are the details. 
Can he supply the following for each State: (a) what Federal Government departments, authorities or commissions buy bulk supplies of petroleum, (b) what price do they pay, (c) from which oil company or companies do they purchase petrol, (d) what is the wholesale price of petrol as charged to lessee petrol resellers by lack of these companies in the States concerned and, do these figures reveal any evidence of price discrimination. 
14) What action does he propose to ensure that the price discrimination practised by oil companies is prohibited in accordance with the price discrimination provisions in the Trade Practices Act 
1 5 ) In view of the Government 's decision not to establish an oil industry agency, what action does the Government propose in the following areas where the Royal Commission suggested that attention was required: (a) the monitoring of landed costs and transfer prices, (b) the establishment of a program of crude oil conservation, (c) a restructuring of the pricing system, (d) regulation of dealer-company relationships, (e) the standardisation of lease agreements between oil companies and their dealers, and the establishment of a suitable degree of contractural independence for dealers and ( f) the determination of prices of all petroleum products. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1977: 
Further to his statement on 31 May 1977, what other decisions has the Government taken on recommendations of the 4th Report of the Royal Commission on Petroleum. 
In particular, will he now provide answers to question No. 162, parts (4) and (5). 
Are major oil companies extending their control over all marketing operations as illustrated by the fact that all major Shelll outlets that have been convened to self-serve are now operated by commissioned agents and through this system the company controls the entire trading arrangements; if so, what does the Government intend to do about this vertical integration of oil company operations. 
asked the Minister for National Resources, upon notice, on 19 October 1977: 
1 ) Is the transcontinental natural gas pipeline proposal a viable option to the development of the North West Shelf gas field on an export basis. 
Does the pipeline proposal better serve Australia's interest in terms of the projected shortfall of natural gas in the eastern States around 1 990, than does the export option. 
Will he make available a cost benefit analysis that examines these two options. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 12 October 1977: 
1 ) Has the Attorney-General's attention been drawn to a statement made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs on 19 September 1977 in relation to child abductions. 
Because of the continuing frequency of abductions is it most undesirable to have further delay before action is taken in this area. 
Will the Attorney-General urgently recommend a system of children's visas, whereby no child could leave Australia without the consent of any person with custody or guardianship of, or access to, that child. 
In addition to the proposal in part (3), what legislative changes does the Attorney-General propose to make to the Family Law Act to prevent children being taken out of jurisdiction. 
Does the Government intend to set up a joint parliamentary committee to inquire into and report upon the effectiveness and the deficiencies of the Family Law Act. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 13 October 1977: 
1 ) How many enforcement officers have been appointed to the Family Court 
Will the Attorney-General give consideration to instructing the Commonwealth and/or State Police to locate actively children abducted by a spouse during the course of hearings associated with family break-down or in defiance of custody orders granted by a Court 
Is it a fact that administrative arrangements at present are such that the Commonwealth Police will not actively move to trace children even when custody orders are violated by a spouse unless an order is made for the arrest of the offending parent. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 16 August 1977: 
With reference to his answer to question No. 145  (Hansard,  5 May 1977, page 1675) can he say what progress has been made on the matter of natural disaster mitigation and the establishment of a natural disaster insurance scheme. 
Has his attention been drawn to the symposium on natural hazards held in Canberra from 26 to 29 May 1976, at which the most authoritative papers on this subject were considered and discussed. 
If so, (a) did a Minister of the present Government officiate at the symposium, (b) did any officers of his Department attend the symposium, (c) what Departments were represented at the symposium and (d) was an evaluation of the symposium compiled by officers of his Department or officers of other departments; if so, will he table their findings; if not, why not 
In particular, was his attention drawn to question 3 (c) for consideration by the working groups of experts at the symposium, namely, how can any insurance scheme discourage unwarranted exposure to risk. 
In view of his reply to question No. 145 that careful planning and research is necessary to identify the expertise required from within government and elsewhere to provide advice on the subject of disaster mitigation, in so far as it is of relevance to the development of a natural disaster insurance scheme, did the symposium fail to provide sufficient expertise. 
Did the volume  Report on Cyclone Tracy- Effect on Buildings  by G. R. Walker to the then Department of Housing and Construction in December 1974, provide sufficient technical information for the Government to relate cyclone mitigation to a natural disaster insurance scheme. 
Does the Government agree with A. Askew and D. Pilgrim in a paper presented to the symposium entitled 'Identifying Flood Plain Hazards- A National Program of Flood Plain Mapping' that one piece of information basic to all measures for alleviating the effects of floodings is a map showing areas which will be inundated with various frequencies. 
8 ) If so, will he take steps perhaps through the Australian Water Resources Council as suggested in the paper, to produce flood plain maps, as a preliminary measure to the establishment of effective natural disaster mitigation measures. 
Will the Government also take steps to evaluate the probability of earthquake risk, particularly in the Sydney area, as has been evaluated and reported upon in so far as the Adelaide area is concerned. 
10) When is the flood mitigation Wivenhoe Dam on the Brisbane River due for completion. 
Will the Government provide extra assistance to expedite construction of the dam as another flood in Brisbane of 1 974 magnitude would cause more than $200m damage. 
When will he table the Government's proposed natural disaster insurance scheme. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 20 September 1977: 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 1 3 October 1977: 
Will he arrange, in conjunction with his colleagues, for the withdrawal of the passports of any citizen or citizens who appear before the Family Court in relation to child custody matters to ensure that children are not removed from jurisdiction. 
My question, which is addressed to the Treasurer, deals with dividend stripping. Is it a fact that  Mr Justice  Mason of the High Court of Australia recently remarked that the defects and deficiencies of section 260 of the Income Tax Assessment Act had been apparent for a long time and yet the Government has made no move to plug the loopholes? Can the Treasurer make an estimate of the millions of dollars of revenue lost through arrangements and agreements devised by lawyers and accountants under that section for their clients to dodge paying their fair share of tax? When does the 
Minister expect to introduce legislation to close these loopholes and to amend the section to overcome what is an obvious anomaly? 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 22 February 1978: 
1 ) Has an interdepartmental committee been established to review the procedure for the issue of passports taking into account the danger of child abduction  (Hansard,  8 November 1977,page3133). 
If so, (a) when was it established, (b) which departments are members of it, (c) what are its terms of reference and (d) when is it expected or required to report. 
I rise to speak to what is, in fact, a manifesto of this Government's achievements and commitments. Its achievements are very few. Firstly, from a commitment in 1975 to provide jobs for all, its policies have put almost half a million people to the torch of unemployment, the highest number since the Depression. Secondly, it ought to be proud of achieving, within the small business sector, a record level of bankruptcy, again the highest since the Depression. The commitments give no comfort to anybody. This Government will relentlessly persist with the policy that has led to the callous abandonment of the unemployed and the small businessman. What is painfully obvious is that unemployment queues are getting longer and corporations are getting biggerand so are corporation profits. 
One of the most disturbing factors in recent years is the alarming rate- I could say that the practice is rife- of company takeovers. In the businessman's jargon, it is called asset stripping. It has reached alarming proportions in the United States of America. It has reached alarming proportions in Australia. Regrettably, because of the fragmentation and non-uniformity of laws in this country, by the time the State and Federal governments get around to doing something to obtain uniform laws to govern such conduct it will be too late. No greater test can be applied to measure this Government's lack of concern than its attitude to the need for reform, for the implementation of the recommendations of the Asprey report, for instance, the Swanson Committee report, and amendments which are badly needed to the Trade Practices Act in order to protect the small businessman. In addition, there is a crucial need for a uniform companies and security law. The Government's culpable failure to act has one inevitable result: Big business waxes fat because of this Government's ineptitude. 
A great deal has been said about tax. Who in the community is carrying the greatest share of the income tax burden? It is certainly not the rich or the well-off. We ought to ask a very simple question: Are the commitments of. this Government structured to redress this imbalance? They are not, according to the report of the Taxation Commissioner for the last financial year, 1976-77. If we take income as a percentage of the tax return, we find that net group tax instalments by wage and salary earners and company directors totalled 60 per cent while companies paid 20 per cent in tax. Trusts- we hear a lot about them lately- professionals, partners, small business and property owners paid around 19 per cent tax, and withholding tax represented one per cent. It is obvious that wage and salary earners have practically no avenue to evade their share of the tax burden but the same cannot be said of people who are well off. At present, tax avoidance is rife in the business community. There is a rich field available for investigation. 
It has been estimated that each investigation officer in the Taxation Office produces an income, if you like to put it that way, to the tax revenue amounting to $100,000 per annum. I suggest that this Government has adopted a very short-sighted policy in regard to staff ceilings. As a result of that policy the profitable investigation work of the Taxation Office is being slashed. This has flowed from the lack of increased investigation staff and partly from the need for investigators to assist in other areas. I find it rather an ironic twist that this Government can ensure that there are no cuts in staff in the Industrial Relations Bureau; but it does not provide for any additional staff in the taxation assessment office to get at people who really ought to pay their fair share of tax. 
Let us look at the dividends stripping. I raised this matter with the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  yesterday. The Government has made quite a commitment in this area. It states that in this Budget it will amend the law. I trust it will do so in a substantial way and not in a fiddling way. Large family companies which are pregnant with profits are obliged by law to distribute these profits as dividends to shareholders or bear tax on undistributed profits at the rate of 50 per cent. If dividends are declared, shareholders are taxed at a high rate of tax, as dividends are aggregated with other income in order to determine the total tax payable. Over the years- nearly 30 yearsastute taxation advisers have devised plans to take advantage of chronic loopholes in the Act. These schemes normally involve the use of professional dividend-stripping companies which use complex schemes to create the impression that receipts of profits from private companies are of a capital rather than an income nature. In the past, the Commissioner of Taxation was able to fight these schemes by the use of section 260 of the Income Tax Assessment Act. It provides that schemes for the avoidance of tax will be void as against the Commissioner. As a result of a High Court decision in a recent case between Slutzkim and the Federal Commissioner of Taxation there is now practically no barrier to the well-advised tax dodger engaging in dividend-stripping transactions to his heart's content. There is nothing to stop this type of action. Surely, millions of dollars have been lost to revenue because of the gaps in the Act. 
For many years the High Court interpreted this section in a reasonable manner and the Commissioner had a fair amount of success. Since the Chief Justice of the High Court has been changed this has not been the case. Last Tuesday I raised with the Treasurer what had been said recently by Judge Mason of the High Court. He said that the defects and deficiencies of section 260 of the Act have been apparent for a long time. He said that they go back to the days of Judge Kitto. Yet the Government has made no move to plug the loopholes engineered by the decisions, if we like, of the High Court. Why has the Government done nothing to rectify the position? Obviously, from this side of the fence, it has no wish to offend its wealthy friends who take advantage of every loophole in the law. As a consequence, again the honest taxpayer is carrying an ever increasing burden of the tax impost. 
I turn now to trusts. Family trusts have been used for many years by wealthy taxpayers to avoid their tax liability. If income can be split several ways, particularly amongst children who have little or no income, the tax effect is obvious. Until recently, the use of trusts was usually confined to property income. As a result of higher rates of company tax, it has now become fashionable for businesses to be transferred from companies to family trusts. This change of ownership inevitably must have a substantial effect on taxation revenue as the rates of tax paid by trustees or trust beneficiaries are much less than those paid by companies. The Government evidently is aware of this problem. The recent Budget made some minor adjustments. I repeat that they were minor adjustments. But, regrettably they are insignificant. The changes, as I said before, are simply fiddling. The whole area cries out for a full scale reform. I suggest to honourable members on my side of the House who have knowledge of this area that it is about time we got our noses buried deep into the Asprey report and attacked the Government day after day for reforms in this area so as to make the tax burden more equitable. Most of these trusts are carried on in exactly the same way as companies and there is no good reason why they should be able to exploit the trust loophole. Probably it is asking too much to expect the Government to take effective action against family trusts in order to minimise tax avoidance. I do not expect that to happen. 
The initiative will have to come from this side of the House. The Government has already made its move and it was ineffective. Honourable members opposite make full use of the family trust to conduct business on land speculation. A Minister exercised that right, executed it and then enjoyed the benefits of it. One can only wonder how many other members of the Government have family trusts to avoid taxation and have a vested interest in seeing that any legislation to rectify the rip-off is obstructed or that it is toothless. This type of discrimination should not exist in our society. However, one wonders how true is this old saying: 'You are guilty until proven rich'. Professor Stone put it so aptly when he said that things had been arranged so that the people who call the shots do not have to bear the full risks. How true that is. 
Let me turn to another area in which this Government has both abandoned its responsibility and is bankrupt of any ideas. I refer to the oil industry. Repeatedly I have raised in this House the problems facing the marketing side of petroleum and the failure of the Government to correct the problems. Let us have a look at a few of them. They include the exploitation of service station proprietors by greedy oil companies, the chaotic state of petroleum pricing by which motorists in some parts of Australia subsidise others and petrol sales subsidise the prices of other types of petroleum products. I refer also to the over-capitalisation in the petrol market which results in excessive retailing costs. This Government's response to all the problems of the industry has been to leave it to the oil companies to solve the very problems that it has created. People on the other side call this 'leaving it to market forces'. That has become a farce, and honourable members know it. 
The basic problems confronting Australia is that international oil companies will control their industry to maximise their world-wide profits. If their profit motive conflicts with Australia's national interest it is Australia's interests which inevitably will suffer. I have repeatedly asked the Minister for Trade and Resources questions on this matter. In answer to a question I asked him last year he stated that the future sources of Australia's oil supply at a time when Australia will be importing most of its oil will be left, regrettably, to the oil companies to decide. The need for refining capacity to be maintained in Australia and for more secondary refining capacity to treat heavier crude oil are not matters with which the Government will concern itself. Regrettably this Government will sit by while petroleum station proprietors are being pushed around by oil companies. The Government will do nothing to stop oil companies overcharging motorists to pay for their inefficient distribution systems and their over-capitalised marketing network. The Government will not supervise the wholesale price of imported crude oil and refined products to ensure that overseas oil companies have not overcharged their local subsidiaries for transport costs and technical fees. This practice is termed 'transfer pricing'. The Government will not tackle that question. , The Government is now set to introduce a rural price equalisation scheme- I look forward to the debate on that with relish- in a form which will give oil companies the right to exploit the Australian taxpayer. While the need to compensate people living in remote areas of Australia for high petrol prices is desirable we can expect that the Government would prevent oil companies from exploiting such a subsidy scheme. This will not be the case if the subsidy scheme is the same as the previous scheme. Regrettably, I suspect that it will be. 
The anomalies that exist in the marketing side of the petroleum industry were first publicised in the fourth report of the Royal Comission on Petroleum published in April 1976- two years ago. The Government's inaction since then is worth recalling. The Government acted to terminate the Commission's investigation into what one may call transfer pricing. It was an essential investigation necessary to the work of the fourth report which condemned the activities of the oil companies. The Government acted to defuse the fourth report by passing it over to an interdepartmental committee. When the report of that committee was completed the Government refused to release it. Now we ought to ask why. Finally, more than a year after the Royal Commission's report was completed the Government again bowed to oil industry pressure and announced that it would reject the major findings of the Commission. 
-No, it did not, and it is not likely to. I wonder how many people in this House have read the fourth report- or the fifth, or the third, or the second. 
-I have too. The Government has dodged the report ever since it has been tabled. Without necesary reforms in the industry, the exploitation of petrol resellers and the motoring public marches on its merry way. The Government will do nothing about it. To sidestep the criticism of thousands of small businessmen involved in the industry- that is laid out in the Royal Commission report- the Government announced that it would form yet another committee comprising dealers and oil company representatives. The proposal to establish the committee was announced in May last year. Yet the second meeting of the committee was held only a few weeks ago. That does not represent much progress after two years. The only way by which the injustice in the oil industry can be corrected is if the major oil companies concede to some form of control, and they are not likely to do that. As the whole history of the oil industry in Australia or throughout the world has shown, it is clear that these companies will not concede to any form of voluntary control. 
The tactics that they will adopt are becoming abundantly clear. All major companies are increasing the number of self-service stations which are staffed by company employees. The people who are put out of work I assume will be called dole bludgers by those on the other side of the House. But I assume that the oil companies' profits will increase because of that move. But does it trickle back to the consumer? The answer is obviously no. I repeat that by the time the Government gets around to reforming the company-dealer relationship within the industry there will be no more dealers left so there will not be a problem. 
Finally I turn to the question which has concerned me very deeply for a long period and that is the failure of this Government to develop a national energy policy. This problem can also be put in the same bracket. The Government is well aware that securing Australia's energy future in the crucial area of liquid fuels must involve, somewhere along the line, control of the oil industry if it is in fact to comply with national criteria. Surely the national interest must be placed above that of oil companies. All the suggestions that have been made by the Royal Commission on Petroleum, the National Energy Advisory Committee, and recently by the Institute of Engineers, plus the energy policy of overseas countries, all involve- whether honourable members like it or not- government planning and control over much of the oil industry. The consequences of ignoring this basic fact of life, as this Government has done and will persist in doing, inevitably will lead to disastrous results in Australia. 
-Never mind about Solo. The Government has to look at a thing that it is not prepared to tackle, and it will have to tackle it before long. The Government is not prepared to do that. The honourable member understands as well as I do the whole structure of the oil industry. Its marketing- its refining- is in a shambles. It is a mess. 
At least we tried by setting up the Royal Commission to make the reports which have now been tabled and published and which ought to be acted upon. The Government is not prepared to do that. I conclude by saying that we ought to note the report of the Institute of Engineers which only last week stated that Australia will be forced to adopt a drastic energy conservation policy as oil supplies dwindle because this Government has left it too late to adopt the necessary policy. The Government should act immediately before this situation gets too bad. 
I support the amendment which concisely sets out the pitfalls and deficiencies in this legislation. I take this opportunity to restate them. The amendment states that the legislation 'fails to implement the election promise of the Government to equalise the price of petroleum products between city and country'. 
It is. The amendment goes on to state that the Bill 'fails to improve the adequacy of existing petroleum marketing and distribution system in country areas'. The Bill does not tackle that problem at all. Finally it states that the Bill is 'silent on the defects in the system outlined in the fourth report of the Royal Commission on Petroleum', which this Government has chosen to ignore. 
At the end of his second reading speech on this Bill, the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  stated: 
The proposed subsidy scheme will substantially benefit large numbers of Australia's rural citizens whose economic activities and general wellbeing are so heavily dependent on the availability of reasonably priced transport and machinery fuels. 
Let me make some constructive criticisms on that claim. Few Australians would object to the scheme. The Opposition will not oppose it. The question that must be asked, however, is whether the objective is achieved in the best and most economical way by this legislation. That is the important question. Unfortunately, the answer is no. The system of petrol freight subsidy chosen by the Government is riddled with anomalies, as was the old scheme. The anomalies were obvious in the previous scheme so the Government has no excuse for not rectifying them. It appears that the only substantial change to the old scheme is that the termination of the scheme must now be approved by both Houses of the Parliamentpresumably for the benefit of a future Labor Government! 
Any government should be wary of taking action which affects the structure of petroleum pricing. The Royal Commission on Petroleum in its fourth report detailed the problems of cross subsidisation, price discrimination and over capitalisation which plague the petrol market. The Commission concluded that the 'structure of pricing is just a mess'. In fact, it is a chaotic hotch-potch. It is regrettably on this foundation that the rural subsidy scheme is to be built. So, another complication is to be added to an already irrational petrol market. 
After the refusal of the Government to come to grips with any of the general problems of petrol pricing, it is not surprising that the Government also has refused to tackle the anomalies of rural petrol pricing. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony),  I regret to say, instead have blamed ACTU-Solo and other small city-based discounters for high rural petrol prices. That has been their thesis. In the light of these allegations which foreshadowed the introduction of this Bill, it is worth recalling the comments of the Royal Commission on city versus country pricing. I suggested in a previous debate that very few honourable members in this House have taken the liberty of studying relevant reports. The fourth report of the Royal Commission quoted evidence which was given by  Mr J.  B. Leslie, the managing director of Mobil Oil Australia Ltd. The report quotes  Mr Leslie  as saying: 
The historic wholesale pricing structure understates country selling costs versus capital city areas. This is because some country selling expenses, such as agents' commissions and coastal transportation expenses to outports such as Townsville, are averaged with capital city costs when determining prices. 
The report then stated: 

 Mr Leslie considered that this situation gave a distorted incentive to invest in metropolitan motor spirit retail outlets. Data provided by Shell indicates the country 'subsidy' in the metropolitan price is about lc a gallon. 
The Commission has recognised that the distorted wholesale pricing structure for petroleum, which was in existence long before ACTU-Solo began operations, is the root cause of excessive petrol prices and the city consumer also is paying more than the justified cost. The Government has had this information in its possession for two years. It has chosen to ignore it. If country consumers already are being subsidised by city motorists to the tune of lc a gallon, how can the Prime Minister and his  Deputy  blame city-based retailers- discounters- without tackling the more fundamental problems of over capitalisation and cross subsidisation which are the real causes of expensive petrol throughout Australia? This failure will result only in dearer petrol for city motorists. I would have thought that was logical. This proposal can do nothing to bring cheaper petrol to the country or to reduce the cost of the petrol subsidy scheme. 
If the Government were genuine in its desire to reduce the cost of petrol marketing it would establish an independent agency to resolve the deep-seated problems of the petrol industry, as was recommended by the Royal Commission. However, honourable members opposite choose not to do that. They believe in the old Tory cliche: 'Leave it to the market forces and it will resolve itself- in other words, self regulation. I suggest to honourable members opposite that in the fields of insurance, brokerage, corporations and securities, self regulation has proved an irreversible disaster. It is completely hypocritical of the Prime Minister and his  Deputy  to accuse, as they have done in the last fortnight against all the evidence, oil companies of conspiring against country motorists. They have ignored the many substantiated allegations of oil companies conspiring against their own employees and motorists at large. The Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs knows as well as I do that the oil industry from refining to output is totally controlled by oil companies. This is the area which the Government has to tackle but it is not prepared to do so. It is a tragedy for Australia that the present leadership is either completely ignorant of the circumstances of the oil industry or is completely subservient to it. The details of the Bill now under discussion suggests that it is both. 
The petrol price subsidy raises the fundamental problem of any tariff protection or subsidy measure. Distortions to the economics of rural industry based on an artificial cost for petroleum will inevitably result from the subsidy. It is the Government's duty to ensure that undesirable structural changes within rural industry and rural transport do not occur as a result of these distortions. We have seen enough of these problems in highly protected manufacturing industries. The existence of a subsidy for rural petrol needs can perhaps be justified in view of the large subsidy to the cities of Australia for public transport. However, there is no justification anywhere for the misplaced use of such a valuable energy source as petroleum. At a time when Australia is facing an ever-increasing petroleum import bill, any measure which could increase the nation's petrol consumption must be thoroughly examined first. The subsidisation of the motor spirit requirements of essential primary production and for people living in rural-based towns is not a concern for conservation. In fact, one would assume that the subsidy will reduce the costs of farm production which should ultimately benefit all Australians through lower prices or a more stabilised rural industry. 
As the subsidy scheme is very broad in its application there will be some encouragement to waste petrol. Firstly, the largest payout of the subsidy scheme when it comes into full operation will not go the rural industries but the large inland cities such as Canberra, Broken Hill and Toowoomba. That is as I understand it and I assume that it is correct. If that is the case the Government ought to look at it and study it. While subsidies to cities such as these may be desirable, the petrol subsidy scheme is not an efficient and economical means of achieving it. Secondly, the scheme also will subsidise leisure activities and this is another aspect which the Government has failed to look at. The previous scheme also failed to take it into account. The Eyre Highway from Adelaide to Perth provides a good case study of the side effects of the petrol subsidy scheme. Between Ceduna, and Norseman, a distance of about 800 miles, there is very little rural industry- practically none at all - which would benefit from the petrol subsidy. In the area between those two towns, however, petrol costs 26c to 28c a litre; that is, $1.18 to $1.27 a gallon. The freight differential is approximately 9c to 16.5c a gallon under the subsidy scheme. In the case of an average leisure vehicle which returns 1 5 miles per gallon, the subsidy for a one way trip from Norseman to Ceduna would be between $5 to $10. 
Obviously heavy vehicles operating between Adelaide and Perth would be subsidised to a much greater extent than that. Clearly subsidies of that extent would have an effect on transport economics across the Nullabor. With the sealing of the Eyre Highway, the volume of heavy traffic on that road has increased already by almost 100 per cent. Frankly, I think the Government ought to indicate whether it believes that heavy fuel subsidisation for road freight on that route, in competition with the Australian National Railways, is in the best interests of the country. We ought to ponder on that question. Is it in our best interests? 
No, it is not a question of running railways; it is a question of the conservation of fuel and the best use of it. The granting of the subsidy in that area of Australia certainly does not achieve that end. We should be pleased that increasing numbers of Australians are taking advantage of their leisure time to travel across Australia but we may well ask whether the taxpayer should heavily subsidise such travel. That is a reasonable question to ask. Is that the right way to go about applying a petrol subsidy? I suggest it is not. The matter deserves further consideration. 
A general and undesirable effect of the fuel subsidy is the reduced incentive to rationalise transport costs. That subject obviously was not given detailed analysis by the Government. I assume it was given no consideration at all. That aspect of reduced incentive does not apply to rural production where there is no reasonable alternative to the use of fuel. In the transport area, however, the greatest benefit will go to people in the most remote locations. The fuel subsidy will hide the real cost involved but that cost will still have to be met. It may be desirable to encourage decentralisation in some very remote areas but in other areas there may be little logic in encouraging settlement. The general effect that any subsidy has in hiding real costs is largely unavoidable. 
The particular form of this subsidy scheme has its anomalies. Honourable members should cast their minds back to the time when the old subsidy scheme was in operation. At that time these matters were of less consequence because Australia was producing most of its own crude oil needs and the world crude oil was a plentiful and cheap commodity. Whether we like it or not, that era of cheap oil has gone. The burden of that changed situation will have to be carried by the city and country consumers. Automotive distillate is included under the scheme whilst fuel oils are excluded. The figures in relation to the previous rural subsidy scheme for 1972-73, which was the last full year of operation of the scheme, show that about half of the subsidy was spent on distillate. 
It is apparent that many of the mining companies in remote areas have converted their operations from heavy fuels to distillate. The inclusion of distillate in the list of products which qualify for an allocation of indigenous crude oil is another factor which could encourage that change. I suggest it is a serious misallocation of resources, however, to use refined products in cases where fuel oils may be suitable. The Government ought to look at that aspect very seriously, critically and urgently. The Industries Assistance Commission made note of that point in its comments on the allocation formula. The Government should indicate what action it will take to prevent this misallocation of resources which will be reinforced by this subsidy scheme. 
Perhaps the main criticism which can be aimed against the Government's approach to price equalisation concerns the way in which it has abdicated its responsibilities in administering the scheme in favour of the oil companies. Under the scheme the transportation costs on which subsidies are based are supplied by the oil companies concerned. Independent cartage contractors and fuel agents are able to transport fuel for less than the amount of the freight differentials currently applied by oil companies. Oil companies are also using contractors in order to lower freight costs but they are not passing on those savings. The Minister has said that the Prices Justification Tribunal will scrutinise transport costs but that it will do so only on the basis of submissions from the oil companies. 
I ask the Minister: Will the Tribunal take the lowest cost quoted by an oil company or will it determine transport costs independently? Do I take it that additional submissions to the Prices Justification Tribunal will be permitted? For instance, will such an assessment or analysis be restricted only to submissions received from oil companies, or will the Automotive Chamber of Commerce be permitted to make submissions to the Prices Justification Tribunal on that aspect? Will the Prices Justification Tribunal take independent submissions before it makes its analysis and judgment? 
I also ask the Minister this question: What monitoring mechanism is to be structured in the calculations made by the Prices Justification Tribunal or the Department? How will the situation of a service station on the border of South Australia and Western Australia be monitored, for instance? Who will account for the number of litres it claims to have sold each month? How is it proposed to ensure that there is no fiddling of the books, as it were, by a firm, located in a remote country area and which qualifies for the subsidy, which claims an exaggerated number of litres sold? How is it proposed to reduce the subsidy paid to that same firm operating in the metropolitan area which does not qualify? What mechanism has the Minister provided to meet that situation? In addition, will the Minister say whether the Prices Justification Tribunal will periodically review costs, apart from increases in subsidy, as requested by the oil companies? 
Another difficulty encountered with the administration of the subsidy scheme is the fact that it is based on inland transportation costs rather than on total costs. That has been a thorn in the side of those involved ever since the scheme was created. There are about 40 bulk storage facilities on the Australian coast but the cost of transport to those facilities is not to be subject to subsidy because the prices charged by oil companies at those storage facilities are the same as those charged at capital city ports. That situation, which also applied under the previous scheme, is clearly anomalous. Obviously major costs are involved in transporting fuel from capital city refineries to depots such as those to be found in Cairns and Townsville in Queensland and Broome and Geraldton in Western Australia. Because those costs will not be subsidisedthat is not the situation pertaining to inland delivery costs- oil companies may find economic advantage in using less efficient inland modes of transport rather than coastal shipping. What has the Government done to meet that contingency? I assume it has done nothing. 
Anomalies such as that again highlight the chaotic state of petrol pricing. Numerous examples from the old subsidy scheme could be cited to illustrate the anomalous basis on which transport costs are determined. This is one example from Western Australia and where are the elected representatives from Western Australia: Yalgoo, Mt Magnet, Cue and Meekatharra are on the same rail link and each centre is a little further distant than the other from Geraldton. Yet the transportation cost to Meekatharra is, for some reason, less than that to the other three towns. Perhaps that could be explained to me. Even if transportation costs could be regulated by the Government- there is nothing to suggest that the Government would take that action- other cost components are not considered by the subsidy scheme. The existence of higher transportation costs by itself does not justify the price differential because higher transportation costs might be offset by lower retail costs. That might depend on the volume of petrol involved, for instance. It invariably does. 
We come back again to the fact that until the Government ensures that economic marketing and distribution of fuel takes place in Australia, the Australian public will continue to pay excessive prices for petrol. There is no question at all about that. That is what lies at the heart of the problem. The freight subsidy will merely redistribute part of that burden. It cannot reduce the overall cost of petrol marketing. In fact it may increase it. The Government can achieve a cost reduction only by reform of the petroleum industry and by the rationalisation of petrol reselling. The Government's price equalisation scheme will bring some benefit to people living in rural Australia but it will impose a corresponding cost on the taxpayer. 
It is my contention that a more important task for the Government is to reform the entire Australian petrol market, thereby bringing benefits to all Australians and savings to the taxpayers. 
In conclusion let me say with all the sincerity that I have that this nation is rapidly reaching a crisis state in terms of its hydrocarbons, and particularly oil. There is an urgent need for this Parliament to set up a joint select committee. It is the only committee that this Parliament can form which has the statutory power to obtain the commercial facts, statistics and data that are needed so that a balanced evaluation can be made. As long as the Government relies- it is perfectly entitled to do so- on committees outside this Parliament it will never obtain the information it wants. I urge the Minister to give this matter urgent consideration. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 1 March 1978: 
1 ) Did the Attorney-General state in a Press statement 5 months ago that he proposed that possibly this year a party committee should review the Family Law Act to determine whether any changes to the broad principles of the Act should be made. 
Did the Governor-General's Opening Speech outlining the Government's program for the new Parliament mention amendments to the Family Law Act or the appointment of any committee to review the Act. 
If not, has the Attorney-General abandoned his proposals. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 28 February 1978: 
Does he recall my question No. 1395 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 7 September 1977 relating to the recommendation in the report from the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence entitled  The Middle East- Focal Point of Conflict,  that Australian Armed Services Attaches be posted to some Middle East countries. 
If so, and as the matter has been the subject of study by his Department since September 1977, when does he expect to be in a position to announce a decision. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 2 March 1 978: 
1 ) Did he suggest that the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence should undertake an inquiry into the Middle East. 
What action has been taken, or will be taken, in respect of recommendation IS of the Committee's report tabled in June 1977, that Australia should encourage long term productive investment in this country from Middle East oil exporting States. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 8 March 1978: 
1 ) How much of the $70m provided for upgrading inter capital rail links in Australia is to be used in upgrading the Adelaide to Serviceton line. 
When will work on the upgrading of this line (a) commence and (b) be completed. 
I ask the Minister for National Development whether the taxation incentives for oil exploration announced in last year's Budget will apply only to expenditures made by Australian companies. In the case of partnerships between Australian and overseas companies, will only the expenditure incurred by the Australian partners be eligible for deduction from taxable income? Will exploration funds 'loaned' by an overseas partner to an Australian partner in a joint venture be eligible for deduction from the taxable income of the Australian partner? Is the Minister aware of a report in the  Australian  of 9 March last that a local company, Cultus Pacific NL, intends to use this means of minimising its taxable income in a 40 per cent joint venture with three Canadian companies? Finally, does the Minister agree that such methods of subsidising foreign exploration for oil in Australian waters are at the expense of the Australian taxpayer? 
-This Bill is modelled closely upon the provisions of the New South Wales Evidence (Amendment) Act 1976 which had the effect of repealing Part IIb of the Evidence Act 1898.I want to make some suggestions, for what they are worth, in relation to the proposed amendments to the Act by the insertion of a new Part IIIA- Admissibility of Business Records. At this stage I shall direct some questions to the Minister, as did the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman),  on a number of provisions contained in the Bill. I ask: Is it the definition of 'document' in proposed section 7a ( 1 ) intended to include Bankcard, credit account and statement of account? I assume that it is. Does the definition of qualified person' include an executive director, that is, a director who either by himself or with other directors administers the business? I suggest that the inclusion of those items would make the definitions more succinct. 
The definition of 'statement' does not include a misrepresentation or a falsehood. It seems necessary to expand that definition. Would it be advisable, as the previous  speaker  suggested, to include in proposed sub-section 7a (2) films taken by a person, tape recordings made by him or telegraphic or telex messages that he has despatched? In that proposed section there is no provision for these items. In proposed section 7b ( 1 ) (c) might it be better to use the words 'or was reproduced from' after the words 'or reproduces'? That would make the proposed paragraph more succinct. 
Proposed section 7N deals with the withdrawing of a statement from the jury. I have been asked to mention the following matter: Since a statement in document form which is presented to a jury is evidence which may be taken into the jury room, it seems better to require the judge to caution the jury about the probative value of the document rather than to hold it from them. I regard the amendments that have been proposed as representing a substantial advance on the law as it stands today. In fact this view is supported by the opinion expressed on page 173 of the third report of the South Australian Criminal Law and Penal Methods Reform Committee of July 1975 which recommended the adoption of the safeguards proposed by the New South Wales Law Reform Commission. These safeguards are substantially reflected in proposed new section 7D of the Bill. 
I refer now to a matter that was raised by the honourable member for Denison. I do not know whether there is a definition of computer. If there is not, I offer this definition: A device that is by electronic, electro-mechanical, mechanical or other means capable of recording and processing data according to methodical and logical rules and of reproducing that data or mechanical or logical consequences in some form of representation corresponding to those referred to in the definition of 'document'. I suggest it would be necessary also to define output from a computer as a statement or representation with a written, pictorial, graphical or other form which is a statement or representation of fact which is produced by a computer or has been accurately translated from a statement of representation of a computer. Sooner or later that problem has to be grappled with; it cannot be avoided much longer. Regrettably the Bill does not make any provision to define those things. 
In general terms I make the observation that the form of legislation is preferable to that adopted in other jurisdictions governing the admissibility of business records. In Victoria and Queensland the Evidence Acts of 1958 and 1977 respectively set out provisions rendering documentary hearsay more readily admissible than was formerly the case. The form which the Victorian legislation takes was introduced by the Evidence (Documents) Act of 1971. It is an improvement on the 1938 Evidence Act of the United Kingdom which was the model, I understand, for all Australian legislation regarding documentary hearsay. Regrettably the legislation retains many defects. For example, the Victorian provisions contain a ' person interested ' exclusion in one of its sections which has the effect of preventing much reliable documentary hearsay from being admitted. There are difficulties in Victoria with the concepts of 'supplying information' and the 'maker of the statement'. On the other hand, the Victorian and Queensland provisions dealing specifically with computer printouts, are well drafted and are unlikely to cause many problems. I do not know whether those matters were examined in the drafting stage of the Bill. I assume they were. 
The New South Wales Law Reform Commission studied the Victorian provisions closely before drafting its legislation on business records. It rejected the need for separate legislation governing computer printouts and it rejected the need for such legislation specifically governing bankers' books and books of account as is done in Victoria and Queensland. I assume I am correct in saying that: I think that is the position. The New South Wales Act covers the whole field of business records and ensures that, for example, hospital records and credit bureau records will be admissible whereas in Victoria they might be admissible only if on computer tape or if it can be shown that the supplier of the information had personal knowledge and was unavailable as a witness. 
Other States have also enacted business record exceptions to the hearsay rule. However none is as comprehensive or practical as those of New South Wales. In Tasmania in 1966 section 40a was inserted into the Evidence Act of 1904. It was modelled on the United States uniform rules of evidence. Further amendments were made in 1974 along the lines of the disallowed Australian Capital Territory ordinance of 1971. These provisions, as I understand them, work along the same lines as the Victorian and Queensland Acts and share many of their defects. In my own State of South Australia business records exemption is contained in section 45a of the Evidence Act of 1929. This provision was inserted in 1972. It is different in form in that it is vaguely worded and relies heavily upon the discretion of the trial judge. This renders it difficult to predict with certainty whether or not a business record will in fact be admitted. 
I think that the New South Wales legislation is far and away the best and most carefully thought out governing the admissibility of business records. I agree with the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  that it is about time we achieved some sense of uniformity in this country. This is another fragmented area which badly needs uniformity. The New South Wales legislation has the effect of rendering business records more readily admissible than any other version of legislation dealing with this area. It is reasonably clear in scope and operation and does not rely heavily upon uncertain discretion, a matter which the honourable member for Denison raised. 
One should note, as the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith stated, the recommendations of the Law Reform Commission of New South Wales concerning oral hearsay which were outlined in its working paper on the rule against hearsay in 1976. If implemented, these recommendations will have the effect of virtually eliminating the hearsay rule in respect of much oral evidence as well as documentary hearsay. No doubt there will be some considerable practitioner resistance to reforms of this magnitude. Nonetheless, I recommend that this working party be studied by all members as it also casts significant light upon the ad hoc reforms which have been implemented in order to render documentary hearsay and in particular business records admissible. I support the Bill and indicate that in the Committee stages I will support the amendments foreshadowed by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
Clauses 1 and 2- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 3. 
After Part III of the  Evidence Act  1 905*  the following Part is inserted: 
PART IIIA-ADMISSIBILITY OF BUSINESS RECORDS 
7a. (1)  In this Part, unless the contrary intention appears- proceeding' means a proceeding before the High Court or any court (other than a court of a Territory) created by the Parliament;  7d. (  I  )  This section applies in relation to a statement tendered in a criminal proceeding for admission under section  7b  where the statement- 
is a statement made by a person; or 
reproduces, or is derived from, information supplied by a person. 
In this section, "criminal proceeding" includes a proceeding under section  77  of the  Trade Practices Act  1974. 7q.  This Part does not affect the power of a court in a criminal proceeding to reject evidence which, if admitted, would operate unfairly against the defendant. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 8 March 1978: 
Has the Australian National Railways Commission embarked on a promotional campaign for its east-west and west-east passenger rail services. 
If so, (a) what is the cost of this campaign, (b) when did it commence and (c) when will it terminate. 
By which media outlets does the ANR propose to promote its services. 
What sum does the ANR intend allocating to each media outlet for the campaign. 
asked the Minister for Transport upon notice, on 8 March 1978: 
Does he envisage the Austraiian National Railways Commission introducing a new multi-tariff fare strategy for the Indian-Pacific and Trans-Australian routes. 
If not, what other methods are being considered to improve profitability on the east-west rail routes. 
If new fare structures are to be introduced, what are the details of tariffs on each of the routes for both east bound and west bound passengers. 
When will even pricing strategy be implemented by ANR for its Trans-Australian and Indian-Pacific rail passenger services. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 2 March 1 978: 
What action has been taken, or will be taken, on recommendation 26 of the report on the Middle East tabled in June 1977 by the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence which urges that Australia, as a member of the world community, should participate fully in the development of international measures to counter terrorism. 
In particular, has Australia always given the most vigorous support to resolutions in the appropriate world organisations to curb international terrorism. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 8 March 1978: 
1 ) Does the Australian Natonal Railways Commission monitor the profitability of its long distance rail services; if not, why not. 
If this policy is not already in operation, will he ensure that it is adopted; if so, from what date. 
-As a member of the Committee on Privileges I share the same views as my fellow committee members. The Committee, as it has done traditionally, has dealt with this reference quickly. We took evidence from the people involved. We considered their submissions. We have now made a report to this chamber. The House has to make a judgment on the Committee's recommendations. I shall not delay the House but I think it is wrong, it is deplorable, that a judgment upon the two people should be held in abeyance for a period of three weeks. I suggest to the House and the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  that the second question, the issue of the inadequacies of the privileges of this Parliament, is surely a separate one. It could be dealt with separately by the chamber at a later date. I strongly suggest to the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  that on this occasion we ought to act as promptly as the Committee has done. These people are entitled to know what is the judgment of the House. It ought to be determined tonight. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 22 February 1978: 
Did he say on 24 August 1977, with reference to the development of the North West Shelf gas field, that exports of condensate will be permitted subject to satisfactory evidence that every reasonable effort has been made to market the product in Australia; if so, what action does the Government expect the consortium to take to encourage the marketing of LPG in Australia. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 4 April 1978: 
Can he give an assurance that an employee transferring from the South Australian Railways will be entitled to recover from the Australian National Railways Commission, all reasonable legal costs relating to any workers' compensation claim made under the provisions of the modified Compensation (Australian Government Employees) Act (l)and(2)- 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 28 February 1978: 
1 ) Did the Standing Committee of Attorneys-General decide on 30 June 1977 that draft Bills would be prepared on consumer credit, with a view to their introduction into the Parliaments of 2 States before the end of the year. 
If so, were the 3 Bills proposed (a) Credit Bill, replacing the hire purchase and money lending legislation, and making wide-ranging reforms to credit law, (b) Chattel Securities Bill, making general provisions relating to goods mortgages and (c) Goods (Consumer Sales and Leases) Bill, amending the sale of goods legislation in relation to terms and conditions of sales, whether by cash or on credit, of goods or services and leases of goods. 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the recent decision of the Victorian Government to strengthen the money lending legislation and to amend hire purchase legislation. 
If so, does the decision of the Victorian Government contradict the decision of the Standing Committee. 
On what dates and by what States does he expect that these urgent Bills will be enacted. 
-Has the Prime Minister noted an announcement this morning by Chrysler of South Australia, one of Australia's largest motor vehicle manufacturers, that it would be retrenching 1,100 employees? What urgent action will the Government take to prevent this from happening? 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 16 March 1978: 
1 ) What progress has been made by the Standing Committee of Attorneys-General on the abolition of appeals to the Privy Council. 
ls the Committee considering the implications and relevance of the power in placitum 51 (xxxviii) of the Constitution; if so, what action has been taken. 
What efforts has the Attorney-General made to persuade the States to take this action since January 1977. 
Have any States intimated to the Attorney-General a determination to preserve Privy Council appeals. 
Does this matter have any greater urgency in view of the widely criticised decision of the Privy Council in Oteri v. R. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 8 March 1978: 
1 ) How many appeals has the Commissioner of Taxation made to (a) the High Court of Australia, (b) the Federal Court of Australia and (c) the State Supreme Courts during the years (i) 1975, (ii) 1976 and (iii) 1977. 
How many of these appeals in each category has the Commissioner of Taxation lost. 
What is the average cost to the Commissioner of an appeal to the High Court 
I address my question to the Treasurer. Following the collapse of VIP Insurances Ltd in which  Mr Makler  syphoned off some $2m, leaving 60,000 policy holders without coverage, to safeguard the interests of policy holders, shareholders and creditors in the future, will he take appropriate action to prevent directors or other officers of companies leaving Australia when such action is recommended as a result of inquiries by either corporate or insurance affairs commissioners? Is it a fact that there are similarities between the collapse of VIP in New South Wales and V and G in the United Kingdom? As with V and G, will the Minister set up a wide ranging inquiry headed by an actuary to investigate and report upon the methods by which accounting procedures for general insurance companies may be tightened up to avoid situations leading to insolvency? Finally, is the Minister aware that very liberal exchange control procedures exist relating to reinsurance transactions? In view of the exploitation of these procedures in two areas, first the syphoning off of profits to overseas parent companies, and secondly, as is highly probable with the VTP company, the transfer of reinsurance funds outside Australia, will he take immediate steps to instruct the Reserve Bank to close those loopholes? 
I rise to support the Bill in principle. I am happy that at least the Government has taken some positive steps to discourage tax dodging by the wealthy which is endemic throughout the community. In the application of income tax law one could be forgiven for passing the aphorism, that 'you are guilty until proven rich' or, as Professor Stone was want to put it: 'It seems to be arranged so that people who call the shots do not have to bear the full risks'. There is a lot of talk about the Curran case but I suggest that we ought to devote a little time to the recent High Court case of Slutzkin v. the Federal Commissioner of Taxation which means now that there is practically no barrier to the well-advised tax dodger against dividend stripping. I have raised this matter on a number of occasions in the House. 
The people concerned in the celebrated Curran case are, in fact, share brokers and share traders. I will give a simple example so that people can understand it. Let us suppose that Curran purchased 100,000 shares of a company at $1 each. That is $100,000. Subsequently a revaluation of assets was made and Curran received, say, 100,000 bonus shares from the revaluation assets reserve. He then proceeded to sell 200,000 shares for $100,000. In his return of income he claimed a $100,000 loss on the basis that the bonus shares had lost their face value. That is simply put. The Commissioner of Taxation refused to allow this loss as he considered, quite rightly, that the cost of the bonus shares was nil. The High Court accepted Curran 's argument, despite previous decisions to the contrary. This left it wide open for tax dodgers to obtain the benefit of fictitious share losses. It is an outrage. 
Section 260 provided broadly that all schemes or arrangements for the avoidance of tax shall be void against the Commissioner of Taxation, although legal for all other purposes. For years this was interpreted on a reasonable basis by the High Court and in effect section 260 was designed- and obviously did so for some 40 years- to block access to tax avoidance schemes. However, I regret to say that since the elevation of  Sir Garfield  Barwick the High Court's interpretation has changed. Perhaps I could put it more succinctly. This provision is being viewed in a narrow, legalistic and technical sense and with an interpretation quite contrary to the spirit of the legislators when the legislation was first enacted, and certainly to the spirit in this House at the moment. At present it would seem that the court works upon the principles- if I may be forgiven for saying so- that if there is a loophole in any section of the Act it offers the taxpayers a choice of taking advantage of the loophole and section 260 has no effect. 
I support the retrospective application of the provisions which will attempt to remedy the mischief created by the majority decision of the High Court in Curran 's case. However, I deplore the efforts made by some of the conservative members opposite. As I recall only too vividly, they were extremely vociferous when it came to dealing with dole bludgers. They seem to have a total reluctance to deal with their wealthy clients who seem to be very concerned about facing up to the reasonable level of taxation imposed upon them. The portion of the Bill that deals with retrospectivity has received general acceptance from more responsible taxation experts. I quote from a report in the  Australian  of the statement of  Mr Eric  Risstrom, the federal secretary of the Australian Taxpayers Association and a responsible critic of taxation law. He said: 
The big income earners had a pretty good time, for a long time. People who undertook the scheme were lucky that closure was not back dated further to 1974 when  Mr Crean  first announced that the loophole would be closed. 
I am pleased to say that a leading newspaper in my State- the  Advertiser-  also supported, in its edition of 1 1 April 1978, retrospectivity. Some of the schemes are so blatant and unreal that they constitute, obviously, a fraud on the revenue. I feel it is about time that some thought was given to taking actions against the nefarious characters who sell the schemes and against the participants in the schemes, on the grounds that they are conspiring to defraud the revenue. Possibly, action of this type could be taken under the Crimes Act. 
At the moment the Government is taking strong action against a section of the migrant community which is accused of defrauding- that is the word used- the sickness benefits and invalid pension provisions of the Social Services Act. However, this fraud is minimal compared with that being perpetrated by tax dodgers. On the one hand the loss to revenue admittedly would amount to tens of millions of dollars, but on the other hand the fraud implemented by scheming lawyers and nefarious accountants amounts to hundreds of thousands of millions of dollars. Frankly, I cannot see why equally strong action should not be taken against the millionaires as is being taken against the poor migrant. Probably it is the usual case of one law for the rich and one for the poor. It is an outrage to the millions of our people who with a sense of conscience, a sense of decency and a sense of honesty are willing to meet their fair share of the cost of keeping the country going, only to find that they are being battened upon by the unscrupulous who wish to keep their gains, many of which have been ill-gotten in the first place. 
The Curran decision was a majority decision, with the Chief Justice,  Sir Garfield  Barwick, and  Mr Justice  Menzies constituting the majority, and with  Mr Justice  Stephen dissenting. We ought to recall that the majority judgments completely ignored previous decisions in the High Court cases of Bjelke-Petersen- a name with which we are all familiar- v. the Federal Commissioner of Taxation and McRae v. the Federal Commissioner of Taxation. In these cases it was unequivocally found that in essence the cost of a bonus share was nil. Honourable members will appreciate the conflict between those decisions and the decision in Curran 's case where the majority found that the cost of a bonus share was its face value. 
It would seem to me that the approach by the Chief Justice is not unusual, as he appears to put to one side all High Court precedents in tax cases, particularly those relating to section 260. It would seem to me- I am only a layman- that in his view the only valid precedents are those that he has created. He has consistently ignored cases which come under section 260- for instance, Newton's case, Hancock's case, Peate's case and others. If I may be forgiven for saying so, his attitude to section 260 may be tempered by the Newton case in which he appeared before the Privy Council as counsel for a taxpayer and, regrettably for him, he was completely rebuffed by the Privy Council. 
Judges of the High Court are fully entitled to refuse to follow the decisions of their predecessors. As I understand the position- I could be proved wrong- legislators have not altered or sought to alter in any way at all for the past 40 years the regulations. Apparently the Court previously endorsed its decision- we would expect it- that the intention of the legislation would be given the force of law. However, it is customary to give reason for dissent and not to disagree by inference, as the High Court is presently doing under the leadership of  Sir Garfield  Barwick. Great former Judges of the High Court- their Honours Dixon, Kitto and Fullagar- are being ignored and, if I might say so, their judgments are being thrown on the scrapheap. This situation and the complete abnegation of section 260 by the present High Court has resulted in the loss of thousands of millions of dollars of revenue and the need to close the loopholes on a piecemeal basis as is being done in this Bill. I have previously pointed out in this House that the wage and salary earners and the company directors are paying the far greater proportion of income tax. If we look at the report of the Australian Taxation Commissioner last year, we see that 60 per cent of income tax revenue comes from wage and salary earners and company directors. They have no way of avoiding their level of tax. 
I draw the attention of honourable members to an article published on 4 April by Edward Nash, the economics writer for the Adelaide  Advertiser  in which he dealt with the Curran loophole. If ever the situation was put succinctly it was in this very short aphorism which stated: 
These days, paying tax is optional. 
If this statement is correct it is an indictment of our whole taxation system. It seems that those who cannot, because of the law, or will not, because of conscience, dodge tax, must bear the whole burden of tax while those most able to afford to pay the tax go free. I remind honourable members that the genesis of some of the most bitter and bloody revolutions in history stemmed directly from the opposition of the wealthy to meet their fair share of the tax burden. The classic example is the French Revolution. The first and second estate, the glorious clergy and aristocracy, refused to accept any income tax impost at all. They were happy so long as it was imposed on the third estate- the peasants. Their attitude was: 'Do not inflict it on the wealthy'. 
The estimate of tax lost so far in the 1 977-78 year varies from $500m to $ 1 billion as a result of the use of the Curran tax scheme. If the former figure is correct this represents an approximate loss to each individual taxpayer of about $65. However, if we take the total as being $ 1,000m the loss would represent $150 or $130 to each taxpayer. I am certain that honest taxpayers would be more than happy if their tax was reduced by about $130. As a layman, I feel that the amending provisions are certainly complex. It seems to me that they could be much simpler. I suggest to the Minister by way of example that it might have been possible to amend section 44(2) of the Income Tax Assessment Act to something simple, as follows: 'For the purpose of this section, the cost of a bonus share shall be deemed to be nil.' Probably this would be too simple as it might catch some of the tax dodgers whom the Government wishes should escape the net. 
-I do not think it is. The gift scheme seems to be even more blatant than the Curran scheme. I cannot see how any responsible court apart from the High Court could accept this scheme as legal. It seems to me that this is a case of looking at the substance rather than at the form. In my view, a genuine gift is one in which the charity gets into its funds precisely the same amount as the donor takes out of his pocket. In other words, we ought to look at the actual cost to the donor, ignoring any payment to the entrepreneur who has instigated the scheme. Surely it is incumbent on any court to look behind the facade which disguises the transaction, to discover the facts. However, knowing the reluctance of the High Court to look at substance rather than form and knowing its preoccupation with choice- that is, permitting the taxpayer a personal choice as to whether or not he pays tax- I accept that the law has to be amended to ensure that fraud does not continue. 
I wonder v hat action, if any, is being taken against those charities which have conspired with tax dodgers and their fraudulent advisers to defeat the revenue. I appreciate that this is a difficult problem, as the Taxation Commissioner would be prevented by the secrecy provisions of the law from advising the Treasurer of the names of the charities. Notwithstanding that problem, I feel that, if it is at all possible, the relevant charities should be made to pay some penalty. It appears to me that the views on tax matters of many of the present members of the High Court have been coloured by their experiences prior to joining the Bench. Most of the present members of the High Court had flourishing private practices which included a substantial amount of tax work. I suggest that having worked in this environment for a great part of their lives, their approach in appeals on tax questions has tended to favour the tax dodgers with whom they have been in contact for so long. As I understand it, it is a well known phenomenon amongst lawyers who work in the field of criminal law that they develop a persecution or defence mentality. Some members of the High Court have developed a tax dodge mentality. Despite the neutrality and impartiality that they are expected to display, they simply cannot help themselves in giving judicial approval to some artificial scheme to defraud the public purse. 
It is interesting to note how the High Court, under the leadership of  Sir Garfield  Barwick, has been prone to accept the arguments of people who feel that they have found loopholes in taxation laws to lessen their taxation liability. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table comparing decisions of the High Court and decisions of the State Supreme Courts in taxation cases. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="109131197805055_43_0.jpg"></graphic>

In summary, the table shows that the Commissioner of Taxation has a 42 per cent success rate in appeals to the High Court of Australia and a success rate of over 70 per cent in appeals to other courts. When we take that fact together with the High Court's failure in recent years even to recognise the existence of precedent, unless it suits its view, I think that we must ask whether the High Court is a suitable court to be hearing taxation appeals. As  Mr Justice  Isaacs once said, it is better that the High Court be ultimately right than consistently wrong. It only confuses the law. If the court believes that previous decisions are wrong, it should overrule them. It should not ignore them. 
Let me make one constructive observation for the benefit of the Minister. It relates to the need for effective legal proceedings against decisions of the Taxation Commissioner. I suggest that because of the narrow, legalistic and technical interpretation of the Act one way to overcome this bottleneck could be to remove the High Court's tax jurisdiction. As I understand it, the taxpayer has a fair opportunity to have his day in court. He can go first to the Taxation Board of Review- I have appeared before the Taxation Boards of Review- then to the Supreme Court, from there to the Federal Court and finally to the High Court. This seems to be an unnecessary duplication of effort. If we must have an appeal to a court, why not limit the appeal to one avenue, say, direct to a special division of the Federal Court or Supreme Court, and that would be the end of the matter? Perhaps an even more progressive innovation would be to remove tax questions entirely from the judicial arena. 
There appears to me at any rate, and I am only a layman, that there is no legal reason why an appeal to a court from a decision of the Taxation Commissioner must necessarily be provided. It would probably lead to much simpler legislation, more efficient collection of tax and more equitable distribution of the tax burden if the Commissioner were to be granted much wider discretion. This would be subject to appeal to some expert appeal tribunal such as the Taxation Board of Review. This Board should be raised to a completely independent judicial status and be kept at arm's length from the Taxation Commissioner. It would surely lead to a decline in the excessive legalism shown in the recent decisions of the High Court, whose only beneficiaries, I regret to say, are nefarious lawyers and accountants and wealthy tax dodgers who devise schemes to avoid the proper contribution to the revenue according to the spirit and intent of the tax legislation. I support the legislation but, more importantly, I support the attitude taken by the former Australian Labor Party Government that it is necessary constantly to update and enact legislation to ensure that tax dodgers do not have a field day. 
I rise to support the matter of public importance raised by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford).  I want to deal exclusively with Chrysler Australia Ltd. The decision that the company took last week to retrench some 1,100 employees under the guise of a rationalisation program is too serious, I suggest, for this House to resort to political point scoring. We have a responsibility to analyse what has happened and to look to the wide implications of this shock decision. I assure the honourable member for Kingston  (Mr Chapman)  who apparently has the ear of the bosses, that if he had any credibility with the workers he destroyed it last week. At the same time, we cannot ignore the way in which this company has consistently treated its work force. In 1 974, Chrysler launched a job recruitment campaign. It spent hundreds of thousands of dollars in getting people to take employment. The basis was that Chrysler's market research team had calculated the boom was on in the big car range. Will the people engaged at that time be kept in employment? Will they be among the 300 to be retrenched this Friday? 
Let us look at some Press headlines which point up the company's track record. The  Advertiser  of 3 1 October 1975 carried an article headed 'Minister reprimands Chrysler over 230 dismissals'; the  News  of 13 July last year had a headline 'Top talks at Chrysler to save jobs'; the  News  of 6 October 1977 had a headline '2,300 stood down at Chrysler'. In the  Advertiser  of 15 October 1977 an article was headed 'Chrysler puts off 130 staff'. The  Advertiser  of 19 January 1978 carried a headline '315 car workers dismissed: More Chrysler lay-offs tipped '. In the  News  of 15 March 1978 a headline read 'Chrysler new plant will give job boost'; and a fortnight later in the  News  of 3 1 March a headline was 'Chrysler sacks 86 more'. Last week it was reported that some 300 more were to be put off this Friday. Brett Bayly, in the  Advertiser  last Saturday under the headline 'Charade on Cars' wrote: 
If any of the 1 100 Chrysler workers who will lose their jobs by the end of next year looked to Canberra for any encouragement they must have been greatly disappointed. 
How true that is. The decline in employment in the industry is an inevitable consequence of this Government's antipathy towards the industry. The facts are that the Australian car industry has got itself into such a mess over the past decade and a half that drastic surgery is now the only way to restore a healthy car industry. Only this 
Government is in the position to lead the industry out of the wilderness. That is beyond question. 
It is unfortunate that the malaise of the car industry is understood by too few people inside or outside the Parliament. A disturbing element in public debate over the industry is the tendency of some to blame workers for problems in the industry. To do so is to be ignorant of the history and nature of the economic problems in the industry. Many people fail to realise that the high price of Australian cars is entirely due to the large number of producers fishing for a share of a very small market. Australian car workers are actually paid less than their Japanese counterparts. Working conditions in Australian vehicle factories are worse than those of overseas car workers. 
The economy of scale factor is the basic problem of the Australian industry. It can most clearly be seen in the design and production side of new motor vehicle components. A large number of engineers, draughtsmen, maintenance workers and production personnel are involved in this work. The testing of new design concepts also involves a large cost. These costs must, of course, be recovered from the sale of vehicles. Some five manufacturers in Australia produce a total of 400,000 cars a year. The costs of each company are spread over an average of only 80,000 cars. In Japan, where there are two main manufacturers producing five million cars, the costs are spread over two and a half million cars. However, the costs of designing a new car and fabricating the tools which produce body panels and components are essentially the same for any manufacturer. The large number of car builders in Australia for such a small market is the basic reason for expensive Australian cars. This factor is completely beyond the  control of  car workers. 
Another major factor in the high cost of Australian cars is the age of Australian car plants and the fact that many of them use outdated machinery. Japanese car manufacturers, on the other hand, are far more efficient. Australian producers are hardly likely to invest in new and expensive equipment in the present economic downturn. In any case, the economy of scale factor creates a vicious circle. The huge capital cost of new equipment must be recovered from a very small number of cars sold. Also the equipment is likely to become obsolete before it is worn out which is, of course, why outmoded equipment is still in use. It can be seen that the main problems of the car industry are beyond the control of workers or unions within the industry and even the companies are restricted in what action they can take. 
Only the Federal Government can provide the leadership that is necessary to solve the problems. Basically, the Government should be moving to reduce the multiplicity of production within the industry. This does not mean that the Government should wait for economic conditions to deteriorate to the extent that one or two car makers will be driven to the wall. Rather, the Government should be encouraging existing producers to rationalise their industry and to increase co-operation so that all Australian made vehicles would use common parts such as engines, transmission differentials, axles, et cetera. In this way an economy of scale situation could be approached, the cost of Australian vehicles would be reduced and jobs in the industry to some extent would be guaranteed. In addition, the consumer would benefit by having available cheaper cars, and the use of common parts- and I believe this is factual- would reduce the exorbitant cost of spare parts because motor repairers would be able to afford to carry a smaller range of spare pans in turn reducing the overhead costs which are at present passed on to consumers. 
The Government's present policy is to allow market forces to dictate the fortunes of the motor vehicle industry. What a disaster that has been in the fields of banking, insurance, and brokerage! It is an attitude which shows callous disregard, if honourable members like, to the thousands of Australian families which depend on the motor vehicle industry for their livelihood. The previous Labor Government had laid a foundation on which industry reorganisation could have taken place. The Leyland Motor Corporation of Australia Ltd was given assistance. To facilitate the growing demand for Japanese cars the two main manufacturers- Nissan and Toyota- were to be allowed to import body panels into Australia but they were required to use the fourcylinder engines produced by Chrysler at Lonsdale. In this way a reasonable economy of scale in engine production was to be achieved as only one plant would be allowed. Similarly, it was intended that other common components would be manufactured at one plant in Australia thus reducing the cost of vehicles and guaranteeing employment. The Liberal Government's approach on taking office in 1975 regrettably has been to shy away from that concept. 
The Government is not prepared to do anything about this whole situation. The result now is that we have a situation in which instead of rational production we have the fragmented production spoken of by the Government. The 
Government has endorsed fragmented production. The sheer irresponsibility of uneconomic and irrational development has been institutionalised by the Government. There is of course too much fragmentation. The 1978 April issue of  Rydge's  analyses the industry, The  Australian Stock Exchange Journal  of April 1978 analyses the industry. The  Australian Financial Review  of 5 May analyses Chrysler's survival strategy. The Industries Assistance Commission has analysed the situation. They all concluded that there are 'too many manufacturers and assemblers of cars for this country'. The Government cannot blithely go on ignoring the situation. It cannot put off the day of reckoning. 
The Government ought to take action now. It has the machinery available to it through the Automotive Industry Advisory Council of which, I understand, the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch)  is the  chairman.  On that Council there are representatives of the Government, the manufacturers, the components industry and the unions. It should be charged with the responsibility of determining the guidelines for the proper restructuring of the automobile industry in the interest of the Australian people. For too long, I regret to say, the automobile workers in this country have been sacrificed at the altar of corporate profitability. It is time that the Government insisted that community responsibility must take precedence over the financial aspirations of the large multinational corporations which dominate the automobile industry in this country. One aspect that will be highlighted in the next two or three years is that no longer will company directors be responsible simply to shareholders. They have a responsibility to the community as a whole. In this respect, I believe that Chrysler has a disastrous record over the last three to four years. It is up to the Government to set guidelines now to pull the vehicle industry out of the depths it is in at the moment. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 13 April 1978: 
Will he bring up to date the information he gave on 2 June 1977  (Hansard,  page 2S90) on the movement of naval ships in the Indian Ocean. 
-Does the Treasurer recall that, when delivering the Budget last year, the then Treasurer said: '. . . examining whether the levy should be replaced by a resources tax'? The then Treasurer was referring to a levy on crude oil production. Does he also recall the statement of the then Minister for National Resources in August 1977 that the Government was considering the application of a resources tax on profits to oil producers as a result of world parity pricing? In view of the statement by the Secretary of the Department of National Development in an address last week to an American Conference in Sydney that 'No in-principle decision to apply such a tax has yet been taken', can the Treasurer give an assurance that a resources tax will be introduced so that part of the windfall profits of $109m to Esso-BHP and $41m to other oil producers in Australia is returned to the Australian community? 
-I rise to support the Bill and also to support the amendments because I think they are constructive and logical amendments. I shall confine my remarks to the Fisheries Amendment Bill. With Australia's  20,000 kilometre coastline  being the second largest coastline of any country, the Australian fishing industry welcomes this amendment to the Fisheries Act to extend Australian jurisdiction over foreign fishermen to 200 nautical miles from the Australian coastline. It is a move which has been taken already by other nations and it could lead to the eventual declaration of a full resource zone giving Australia control of off-shore oil and natural gas reserves. It is a move which will highlight the appalling inadequacies of the Australian defence system and the inefficiency of the long-ignored Australian fishing industry. 
In spite of our immense coastline Australia does not rank among even the first SO fishing nations and its catch amounts to only about onethousandth of the total world catch. The Australian fishing industry employs about 18,000 fishermen which is about 0.4 per cent of the total work force. It is characterised by coastal and commonly localised operations. Development seems to be controlled by marketing and demand problems and, very noticeably, by the scarcity of large vessels capable of working on the high seas. Of the 9,000 commercial vessels in Australia, 70 per cent are less than 9 metres in length. Only 2 per cent are more than 2 1 metres in length. The greater part of the new region consists of deep oceanic waters. 
There are just over 150 registered land-based processing plants, 80 per cent of which have a throughput of less than 1,000 tonnes and employ basically or predominantly casual labour. In 1975-76 the Australian fisheries catch was valued at about $150m. It is estimated that the gross value of fisheries production for 1976-77 was in excess of $200m. Over the decade from 1965 to 1976 the value of fisheries production grew by 1 1 per cent annually, or twice the rate of the growth in the rural industries. Although nearly all 'swimming' fish caught by Australian fishermen are consumed domestically there is still a considerable gap between the Australian catch and domestic requirements and in 1976-77 fish imports were valued at $ 113m. The extension of the 200-mile zone is estimated to save Australia about $20m in fish imports and will substantially increase exports which in 1976-77 were valued at $144m. The current Australian catch is estimated at just over 1 10,000 tonnes live weight. It is calculated that foreign fishermen take off a further 50,000 tonnes in Australia's prospective 200-mile zone. However, if Australia's catch were to increase drastically, obviously the cost of production would have to be kept to a minimum if we were to effectively penetrate export markets. 
As the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  stated in his second reading speech, Australian coastal waters are not ideally suited for fishing. Nevertheless there are substantial new fish resources within the 200-mile zone. The existing in-shore fisheries are already almost fully exploited but the demersal fisheries of the shelf provide substantial opportunities for expansion, particularly in northern waters. In addition, the fisheries of the pelagic and mid-water species of the shelf seem capable of expansion. However, even in anticipating a doubling of the Australian fish catch, which is quite likely, once the 200-mile zone is introduced, the industry will still be unable to harvest the allowable catch. The United Nations Law of the Sea convention states: 
Where a coastal state does not have the capacity to harvest the entire allowable catch it shall through agreements or other arrangements, give other states access to the surplus of the allowable catch. 
This means that Australia will inevitably have to grant fishing rights to other nations, working under Australian control and conditions. Whether one regards this aspect as an opportunity for Australia to strengthen its trade bargaining power with other nations which rely heavily on their fishing industries and which will seek to fish in our waters or whether it is to be used as a source of revenue through the issuing of licences, the fact is that it creates a serious problem. In deciding conditions under which other nations should be permitted to fish within the zone, three main conditions are involved: Firstly, support for the Australian economy and assistance to the industry in developing the capability to utilise these resources; secondly, proper management of the resources; and thirdly, assistance in acquiring the knowledge necessary to establish good management practices. 
Perhaps the best solution would be for our fisheries to enter into joint ventures with those countries that can provide technology and expertise, which would in time enable our industry to take over the venture itself. An example of this is to be found in the northern prawn fishery which started in 1 968 as a number of joint ventures between Australia and Japane.se companies. The fishery is now wholly operated by Australians but the prawns continue to go to Japan. However there is a major problem in implementing any of the above considerations as our authorities possess very little knowledge of Australian fish resources. In fact other nations such as Taiwan, Japan and Soviet Russia have more accurate estimates of fish stocks within the Australian 200-mile zone than we have. I suggest that that places those countries in an advantageous position when negotiating with us over fishing rights. Furthermore, it would be difficult for us properly to manage fish resources if accurate information as to what resources exist were not available. 
At present about 100 scientists are engaged in fisheries research and investigation, of which about 75 per cen work with the management of inshore State fisheries. The total amount spent on fishing research by government and industry is only about $6m, or just over 3 per cent of the $200m catch landed in the year ended June last year. Obviously if Australia is to obtain the knowledge which will be needed for proper management of this extended zone it will be essential that the following steps are taken: Firstly, the number of scientists should be substantially increased; secondly, adequate and reliable catch and effort data, facilities for work, and technical staff on board should be required of vessels taking part in the fishery; thirdly, a properly planned program of exploratory fishing should be undertaken; and finally, the provision of one or more properly equipped fisheries research vessels capable of undertaking deep water cruises should be put in hand immediately. 
These provisions will require the additional expenditure of at least 50 per cent to 100 per cent of that already spent on fisheries research, but it is an expenditure that the Government must bear if we are to have the knowledge needed to provide a basis for the management of an extended zone. Unless proper controls can be imposed from the beginning, serious over-fishing could easily occur before sufficient knowledge has been built up to place the catch limits on a sound scientific basis. This is particularly so as since World War II there has been substantial overinvestment in the fishing industry on a world wide basis which has led to too many vessels chasing too few fish and fleets ranging far afield in an attempt to recoup investment. 
The Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations estimated in 1976 that the world harvest of aquatic animals and plants reached about 72 million tonnes with stocks, of some species of fish having been seriously depleted. One example of this is the North Sea herring which countries were warned to stop catching over two years ago because the research institutions feared stocks were at a state where they might not be able to recover from further depletions. This practice was not stopped, regrettably, and only a British ban in the United Kingdom 200-mile limit forced the European Economic Community herring fishers to follow. The warnings are now out that it may not be safe to resume fishing in that area before 1 979. 
Canada has also faced problems from foreign water fleets of large high capacity factory and freezer stern trawlers fishing into stocks of cod, haddock, redfish herrings and mackerel off its coast outside the 12-mile limit. To the Canadian fishing communities this was what they termed raid fishing'. Describing the pattern Le Blanc, the Canadian Minister of Fisheries and the Environment, said: 
In a consistent pattern one stock after another has been fished down. In each case the sequence began with an explosive increase in fishing effort by overseas fleets, resulting first in rapid increase in catch but followed invariably by a drastic decline. At this point the fleets shifted their attention to other fish working their way through the traditional species to less desirable and therefore previously untouched stocks. 
The Government should take any necessary action to ensure that a similar situation does not occur within our fishing waters. 
The Soviet Union is seeking a fishery agreement with us and has made specific overtures to participate, alone with Australian partners, in fishing within Australia's proposed 200-mile zone. The Soviet fishing fleet is by far the largest in the world. It is almost six times as large as the next biggest fishing fleet- the Japanese. Might I suggest to the Minister that my assessment is that the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics is probably interested more in obtaining access to Australian ports than in gaining the right to fish within our fishing zone. I believe there is a very good reason for that. Port facilities should enable the Soviet fleet to fish over an extensive area of southern waters by enabling vessels to be serviced and crews to be rested and rotated. It is highly possible that exploitation of krill by the Soviet fleet would be greatly facilitated by access to Australian ports. I believe it will become clear that they want to exploit krill in Antarctic waters. 
I now wish to turn to the problems associated with the surveillance of our 200-mile zone. Whilst the Minister reassures us in his second reading speech that the Government is currently developing proposals to upgrade our coastal surveillance and enforcement effort, I am not perhaps as confident as he is that this will be so. If surveillance is to be carried out thoroughly a major upgrading of Australian coastal defences obviously is required. The Minister has given no definite assurance in this matter.  His  statement that 'The Government is currently developing proposals to upgrade our coastal surveillance and enforcement effort' tells us nothing as to how this will be done, whether the proposals will be adequate and whether we can expect any such upgrading. At present Australia does not even possess the facilities to patrol adequately its 12-mile zone, and once this legislation is enacted there will be an extra area almost the size of Australia to be patrolled. 
It is all very well for this Government to talk about increased penalties for foreign boats caught poaching inside Australian waters, but there is little value in such penalties if we do not have the means by which to enforce such laws. I will not utilise my knowledge as a member of a sub-committee of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence which is looking at Australian territorial boundaries including Antarctica. I think it would be unfair of me to do so. Suffice to say, that the sub-committee went to Darwin to take evidence. We went on board some Taiwanese boats that had been impounded in Darwin. One thing struck me as being urgently needed. I believe the officer in charge of the Royal Australian Navy in Darwin would support my proposition. 
I regret to say that what I am concerned about is absent in this legislation which is concerned with the establishment of a 200-mile fishing zone. Under present procedures- this may not be known to many honourable members- more often than not the arrest of a foreign fishing boat takes the arresting Royal Australian Navy patrol boat out of patrol duty whilst it is escorting the fishing boat to the nearest port where there is a magistrate and in many cases, regrettably, it is out for the duration of the court proceedings. The commander of the patrol boat is required to give evidence in person in the Northern Territory and Western Australian courts, although in Queensland a written deposition is sufficient. Australia has only six patrol boats to cover the entire Australian coast from Geraldton to Townsville. So their detention in Port for lengthy court proceedings can reduce their patrol activity to almost nil. The Government ought to apply itself to that problem. Also, the practice of selling forfeited fishing boats back to Taiwanese owners at low prices lessens the deterrent effect of arrest. We badly need less cumbersome arrest and detention procedures if we are to have an effective surveillance system, particularly in our northern waters. 
The arrest on 6 February of this year of the Japanese squid trawler, the  Eikyu Maru,  for operating within the 12-mile limit off the northern coast of Tasmania indicates that surveillance must be maintained all round Australia. Obviously, the waters most vulnerable to foreign encroachment are those between Geraldton and Townsville. These areas are already being exploited by fishermen from Taiwan, South Korea, Indonesia, Japan and the maritime province of the Soviet Union, even in areas inside the 12-mile zone where the waters are generally less than 200 metres deep and contain the valuable demersal fisheries. Even after this legislation is passed, certain difficulties may be experienced with Taiwan in view of Australia's lack of diplomatic relations with that country. But I suppose that we could overcome that. 
Already Taiwanese fishing boats are responsible for most of the infringements of Australia's 12-mile fishing zone. They catch in excess of 80,000 tonnes per year in northern waters. As most foreign vessels operating in northern waters pass through either the Makassar or Manipa Straits, it would appear obvious that cooperation with Indonesian marine traffic authorities will be paramount. At present the equipment used by the defence forces for surveillance is designed primarily for other military purposes. The Defence Force personnel rightly regard such duties as a diversion from the role for which they were trained. The question of surveillance of the 200-mile zone surrounding Australian territories, particularly the Antarctic where surveillance presently is virtually non-existent, is also one which will have to be examined. We have yet to introduce enabling or proclaiming legislation concerning the Antarctic. 
Just what steps need to be taken to upgrade our surveillance and patrol methods is a matter which should be thoroughly investigated, and for which practical solutions ought to be implemented. With the passing of this legislation, this will be necessary not only to protect our fishing resources but also to control illegal immigration and smuggling. The development of the 200-mile fishing zone may not be costless, as many people seem to assume, but I believe that it will be of considerable national benefit, provided that the Government provides the necessary assistance for Australia to take full advantage over the area to which this Bill gives it jurisdiction. I support the legislation and I support the amendment. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 15 March 1978: 
In view of the fact that a Natural Disaster Insurance Scheme has been under intensive examination since February 1974, when can Australia expect concrete proposals relating to a viable Natural Disaster Insurance Scheme to be tabled in the Parliament. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 13 April 1 978: 
1 ) Did his predecessor say in answer to question No. 636  (Hansard,  2 June 1977, page 2535) that the Special Working Group of the River Murray Commission was proceeding to draft amendments to the River Murray Waters Agreement as a matter of urgency; if so, can he say when the amendments will be introduced into the Parliament. 
Have State Governments completed the Salinity Mitigation works recommended under sub-paragaphs 9. 1 (i) (a) and (b) of the River Murray Working Party report. 
Have State Governments upgraded their water quality monitoring programs along the lines recommended by the Water Quality Committee to the River Murray Working Party and have the recommendations contained in paragraphs 4 and 5 of the Committee's report been put into effect. 
Have improved extension and technical services, which were recommended in conclusion 8.2.3 by the Committee on Irrigation Farm Practices to the Working Party, been instituted by the Victorian and South Australian Governments. 
Which committees have been established by the River Murray Commission since the Working Party report was presented to the Government in October 1975 and what is the function of each committee. 
Are the committees referred to in pan (5) required to make reports; if so, what provision has been made to make their work public. 
What progress has been made in the control of water hyacinth on the tributaries of the River Murray. 
What funds have been provided by the Federal Government for administrative costs, capital works, maintenance operations and special projects on the River Murray system for each of the last 5 financial years. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science, upon notice, on 3 May 1978: 
1 ) Will the Minister ensure that comprehensive facilities for modern tissue culture techniques will be available at the Australian National Animal Health Laboratory being established at Geelong, Victoria. 
Is it a fact that these, and other similar techniques, can be used for maintaining infectious organisms, and are considerably cheaper than the traditional methods using live animals. 
It is also a fact that tissue culture, organ culture and bacteria are being increasingly used in the preliminary stages of much research, thus saving live animal suffering as well as unnecessary costs. 
Will the Minister give an assurance that staff to be employed at the ANAHL will be fully conversant with these new techniques. 
-I am grateful to the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  for giving me an opportunity to speak on this matter. I share with the shadow Minister for Foreign Affairs, the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  his sentiments on this matter. I compliment the Minister and his officers on the excellent job that has been done. I want to address myself briefly to the matter that the Minister raised on 1 1 May dealing with the question of sovereignty over the three islands of Kawa, Mata Kawa and Kussa. At the outset I should say that a sub-committee of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence presented a report to this Parliament in December 1 976. It was an all-party sub-committee. I furnished a minority report which differed from the opinions of  the other 20 members. I seek leave to have the minority report incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The report read as follows- 

STATEMENT OF RESERVATIONS BY MR JACOBI 
Whilst I endorse a number of findings in the 'SubCommittee's Report', I have found it necessary to express my own views in a separate report. I would summarise these views in the following way: 
negotiation is preferable to arbitration, and is in the best interests of both countries. 
Australia should acknowledge that the existing border is a legitimate grievance to Papua New Guinea, and that a delineation of the seabed boundary south of the existing boundary is a realignment that Papua New Guinea can reasonably expect. 
The resolution of such a question should not be allowed to be impeded by purely domestic constitutional difficulties in Australia, which have nothing to do with Papua New Guinea and which Papua New Guinea can legitimately claim should not adversely affect her interest. 
The Australian Government should make every effort to ensure that the inhabitants of the Torres Strait Islands are kept fully informed and are consulted in any settlement that is negotiated with the Government of Papua New Guinea. 
REASONS 
Under the Australian Constitution the National Government is responsible for the conduct of Australia's foreign relations including negotiations of any settlement with the Government of Papua New Guinea in regard to the boundary separating our two countries. 
To acknowledge this undoubted fact however, is not to deny the very real need on the part of the Australian Government to consult with and keep fully informed the inhabitants of the Torres Strait Islands. 
As long as Australia exercised external responsibilities for peace, order and good government' on behalf of the people of Papua New Guinea, the border issue was very largely academic. 
However, New Guinea, prior to independence, was a Trust Territory and as such was subject to scrutiny and report by a visiting UN Mission in 1971, which declared the desirability of a border change. In the run up to independence this matter was in fact raised in the Australian Parliament in 1971 and the Papua New Guinea Parliament in 1969 and 1971. 
Because of the very general nature of the description of the 1 879 line, it is almost impossible to use it to construct the border with the precision required for an international boundary. 
Since initial annexation in 1879, the border between both nations has been the subject of a number of exchanges, resulting in a number of recommended border realignments, but no change to the 1879 line has been made. The very fact that the 1879 line lacks the essential attribute of precision, and that this line lies only a few hundred metres from the coast of Papua New Guinea must necessarily be a source of grievance, if not even offence. That this is so was acknowledged long before Papua New Guinea became independent. Speaking in 1903, a former Premier of Queensland,  Sir Samual  Griffiths, first Chief Justice of the High Court, said: 
With regard to the boundary when it was fixed in 1 878, it was not unreasonable for Queensland to require to get all she could. She could not get New Guinea, but managed to get as near as possible. We followed round as close as we could get between the Islands and the coast of New Guinea, taking in practically everything at that time and those parts were equally unknown and unsettled; but later when New Guinea had what was after all a civilised Government . . ., it became extremely absurd that some of the islands should be governed by Queensland. 
In the words of a noted academic authority on the subject, the present maritime boundary between Queensland and Papua is an anachronism and contains the seeds of future conflict'.  (Mr P. W. van der Veur 'Search for New Guinea Boundary', p. 35(1966)). 
At independence, Papua New Guinea assumed the rights and obligations conferred upon it as a sovereign state. Of necessity, it had to assess the limits of its territory and territorial jurisdiction, the rights of freedom of movement of its people, their freedom of access for the purposes of trade and commerce, its requirements for defence, both national and international, and its freedom of access to the seas adjacent to its mainland for the purpose of exploiting the natural resources on or beneath the seabed. 
The evidence indicates an intention on the part of the government of Australia and Papua New Guinea to reach an acceptable settlement involving a re-alignment of present boundary. Because of certain Australian Constitutional difficulties (see clause 7) Australia may be restricted to a delineation of the maritime and seabed boundary. 
The proposed Une involves a delineation of the seabed boundary and would be drawn to the south of the present line subject to the following conditions: 
The three inhabited islands of Boigu, Saibai and Dauan (which may be left north of the new seabed boundary) remaining Australian and their people Australian citizens. 
Uninhabited islands remaining Australian territory. 
Such islands generating a three (3) mile territorial sea. 
The establishment of a protective zone in the Torres Strait to preserve the traditional way of life and livelihood of the islanders and the people of Papua New Guinea, to be administered by a Commission having representation from all parties. 
The resolution of outstanding issues: in particular, the need to define the geographical limits of both the 'protected zone' and the 'seabed boundary' and the matter of drilling within the protected zone. 
The failure to concede to Papua New Guinea the rights proposed by the two Governments could well lead to the following consequences: 
Papua New Guinea may pass its 'National Seas Bill'. This would create overlapping and conflict of claims between the Australian Government and the Papua New Guinea Government as to respective areas of influence and jurisdiction, both national and international. 
The issue may well then be referred to the International Court of Justice or some other international arbitral institution, as being used, for instance, to resolve the dispute between France and the United Kingdom over certain islands in the English Channel. 
This might result in a decision adverse to Australia, so we face the real dilemma of a conflict between 'international law' and Australian 'municipal law', with all the attendant difficulties of compliance with, and implementation of, the international decision. 
Strategic and Defence Considerations- The evidence indicates that in so far as our strategic interests are concerned the transfer of any other of the islands and islets north of 10S would not affect Australia's strategic interest in unimpeded navigation of the Strait. Naturally, it remains true that the more islands that might be occupied the more options for military exploitation would be available to the occupant, whoever that might be. However, the desirability of this option could be countervailed if transfer of the islands could guarantee a comprehensive and permanent resolution of differences with Papua New Guinea in the area. The Defence Department made quite clear in its submission to the Sub-Committee that the over-riding defence consideration in Torres Strait was to prevent an unresolved boundaries dispute becoming a source of friction in a general sense between Papua New Guinea and Australia. The two countries presently enjoy an unusually close identity of defence interests, and co-operate effectively in safeguarding those interests. Any final settlement of the boundaries issue must be made with reference to the wider concern of maintaining this commonality of interests and high level of co-operation. 
AUSTRALIAN CONSTITUTIONAL POSITION 
Finally it is necessary to discuss the legal and constitutional issues involved in the changes that are proposed regarding Australia 's boundary with Papua New Guinea. 
Three possible courses of action require discussion: 
I support what the Minister said in relation to the three islets on 1 1 May for the reasons that I shall give. The matter was dealt with by the sub-committee. The question turns on the definition of Talbot Islands.  Sir Samuel  Griffiths, Premier of Queensland, decided in 1879 that Kawa, Mata Kawa and Kussa were part of the group known as the Talbot Islands and were therefore included within the boundaries of Queensland by the Queensland Coastal Islands Act 1 879. However,  Sir Samuel  Griffiths' decision was at variance with the British Admiralty definition of the Talbot Islands. The official 
Admiralty chart was drawn in 1873 by Navigating Lieutenant Connor who, in that year, surveyed the Talbot Islands while under the command of Captain Moresby. The Admiralty chart referred to by the law officers who drafted the 1878 Letters Patent was drawn by Navigating Lieutenant Connor to show Kawa, Mata Kawa and Kussa as lying outside the Talbot Islands which included only Boigu, Moimi and Aubusi. 
Frederick James Evans, the Admiralty hydrographer referred to the Talbot Islands in a letter dated 16 September 1875 as being two to three miles from the New Guinea mainland. Kawa, Mata Kawa and Kussa are separated by only a few hundred yards from the mainland, whereas Boigu, Moimi and Aubusi are a little less than three miles from it. From the documents and correspondence relating to the alteration of the maritime boundary in Queensland in 1879 to incorporate certain islands in the Torres Strait it would appear that the Queensland Coastal Islands Act of 1879 was not drafted to include the three islets of Kawa, Mata Kawa and Kussa. Proof of this is contained in the documents printed on pages 1 16, 133 and 143 of the report on the Torres Strait Boundary by the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Subcommittee on Territorial Boundaries, 1976. 1 am amazed that some of my colleagues did not take the time to study the appendices to that report. I have the sneaking feeling that the Minister's Department might have had reference to that fact when it studied the matter. 
I shall take a few minutes to address myself to my attitude because I feel that I owe it to the House to do so. I furnished my report which disagreed with that of the Joint Committee for the reasons which appear on page 91 of the report. They are: 
negotiation is preferable to arbitration, and is in the best interests of both countries. 
Australia should acknowledge that the existing border is a legitimate grievance to Papua New Guinea, and that a delineation of the seabed boundary south of the existing boundary is a realignment that Papua New Guinea can reasonably expect. 
The resolution of such a question should not be allowed to be impeded by purely domestic constitutional difficulties in Australia, which have nothing to do with Papua New Guinea and which Papua New Guinea can legitimately claim should not adversely affect her interest. 
The Australian Government should make every effort to ensure that the inhabitants of the Torres Strait Islands are kept fully informed and are consulted in any settlement that is negotiated with the Government of Papua New Guinea. 
My reasons for doing so were as follows: 
Under the Australian Constitution the National Government is responsible for the conduct of Australia's foreign relations including negotiations of any settlement with the Government of Papua New Guinea in regard to the boundary separating our two countries. 
The second and important reason was: 
Because of the very general nature of the description of the 1 879 line, it is almost impossible to use it to construct the border with the precision required for an international boundary. 
I took that view for the reasons that I shall give. I think that it is a sound view, though my colleagues on both sides on the sub-committee disagreed. The reason is that the 1879 line is not a true boundary in either Australian or international law. The sole purpose of the line was to indicate which islands were to be annexed to the then colony of Queensland without in any way altering the status of the waters surrounding the island and the submerged land lying beneath the water. Those waters and the submerged land did not, in consequence, form part of Queensland. They did not then and they do not now. The other observation I made was: 
The failure to concede to Papua New Guinea the rights proposed by the two Governments could well lead to the following consequences: 
Papua New Guinea may pass its 'National Seas Bill'. This would create overlapping and conflict of claims between the Australian Government and the Papua New Guinea Government as to respective areas of influence and jurisdiction, both national and international. 
That took place. That observation continued: 
The issue may well then be referred to the International Court of Justice or some other international arbitral institution, as being used, for instance, to resolve the dispute between France and the UK over certain islands in the English Channel. 
On a negotiated basis at least, that possibility has in fact been avoided. Coming to the details of the accord, for obvious reasons one assumes that Australia has forsworn its right for a 12 -mile territorial waters area around its islands for obvious reasons. Equally, one assumes, reference to the map, that Papua New Guinea has exercised its right with the exception of the area encompassing the fishery resources delimitation zone. 
The other point is that undoubtedly Australia has not foregone any of its land territory or islands in the Torres Strait. To that extent it does not impinge at all upon the Australian Government's constitutional responsibility, it does not contravene Queensland's constitutional entitlement under the Constitution or under the Queensland Coastal Islands Act. I assume from the map that the seabed boundary is slightly north of the Ellicott Line. It serves as a seabed boundary and sea delimitation for the question of exploitation of resources. As I understand it the three islands of Saibai, Boigu and Dauan generate their own three-mile territorial waters, which gives Australia exclusive jurisdiction within those waters, I take it that waters north of the seabed boundaries, that is both for crustaceans and other fishing resources or exploitation generally, will be on a basis north of the Line in the ratio of 25 per cent to 75 per cent against Australia and, south of that Line, on the basis of 75 per cent to 25 per cent in Australia 's favour. 
The other important factor is the question of the protected zone. It seems that that will have to be administered by an intergovernmental committee of both governments to preserve resources, both living and non-living. That preserves the integrity of those who are now Australian citizens on its inhabited islands, giving them a full entitlement to the three miles of territorial waters. Another question I raise with the Minister, as did the shadow Minister is that of Turnagain and also the administration of the navigation of the Great North East Channel. The evidence received by the sub-committee was to the effect that for strategic and defence purposes there would be no problem, as it lies within the protected zone and therefore would be subject to joint administration. As I understand the situation, it is a matter of both countries paying regard to international criteria laid down for the free movement of shipping and for navigational purposes. I understand that it is Australia's responsibility to maintain the navigational aids sited along the channel. 
My summary of a very brief and cursory examination of both the Minister's statement and the maps affixed to it shows that this is a very reasonable and satisfactory accord. I again compliment the Minister and his officers. But there is one point I wish to make: This accord represents a vindication of the initiatives taken by the Labor Government. Those initiatives led to the independence of Papua New Guinea and the laying of the foundation for this agreement which I trust will be a lasting and very sound agreement between both countries. As anybody who has studied international boundary disputes will know, they are difficult and very complex. Regrettably they sometimes lead to protracted litigation. That could have happened in this case had it not been for a sense of understanding and balance on the part of both countries. One of the biggest problems facing the Greek Government and the Turkish Government is not Cyprus but the seabed boundaries in the Agean Sea because of the oil rights involved. 
I make this observation: As it would appear that to some degree there has been a bi-partisan approach on this matter, as there has been on the question of Antarctica, I would hope that in the intervening period between now and the drafting of the treaty- the period when discussions will take place- the Minister will at least extend to the Opposition the courtesy of keeping us informed of any changes to the material substance of the agreements tabled in the Parliament today. I hope, above all, that the Minister, between the present time and the time of the signing of the treaty, will do two things: I hope that he will keep the Torres Strait Islanders completely informed of all the negotiations and will explain to them the ramifications and meaning of what takes place. Equally, there is an obligation, constitutional at least, on the Minister to keep the Queensland Government fully informed of what may occur ultimately in this matter. 
Could the Minister clarify for me the question of fishing exploitation by Australians- Torres Strait Islanders or anybody else- within the 3-mile territorial waters adjacent to the inhabited islands within the delimited swimming fish resources zone? Is that to be an exclusive right for Australian fishing, both subsistence and commercial, or is it exclusive in terms of subsistence fishing for Australian inhabitants? Is fishing within that 3-mile territory limit on a commercial basis subject to the ratio of 75 per cent for Australia and 25 per cent for Papua New Guinea? 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 10 April 1978: 
1 ) Is it a fact that taxation incentives for oil exploration announced in the 1977-78 Budget will apply only to expenditure made by Australian companies; if so, in the case of partnerships between Australian and overseas companies, will only the expenditure incurred by the Australian partners be eligible for deduction from taxable income. 
) Will exploration funds lent by an overseas partner to an Australian partner in a joint venture be eligible for deduction from the taxable income of the Australian partner. 
Has his attention been drawn to a report in the  Australian  of 9 March 1978 that a local company, Cultus Pacific NL, intends to use this means of minimising its taxable income in a 40 per cent joint venture with 3 Canadian companies. 
Are these methods of subsidising foreign exploration for oil in Australian waters carried out at the expense of the Australian taxpayer. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 28 February 1978. 
Has he instructed his Department to inquire into the whole subject of animal experimentation, with particular reference to the LD 50 test. 
If so, when does he anticipate being able to inform the House of the conclusions of this inquiry. 
Is he able to say whether (a) in 1968, the Canadian Council on Animal Care was constituted as an independent body at the Federal level, financed by the National Research Council and the Medical Research Council, (b) the scientific community in Canada was totally in support of the establishment of this body, (c) 12 leading scientific organisations, including the Association of Universities and Colleges of Canada and also the Federation of Humane Societies are represented on that Council, (d) the Canadian Council on Animal Care had, by 1972, assessed laboratory animal care and facilities in all universities, colleges and government departments in Canada, making recommendations for improvements where these seemed advisable, and that this work was subsequently extended to commercial firms at thenrequest, (e) members of local or regional humane societies are invited to join each assessment panel thus assuring these bodies, and through them the general public, that their valid interests are protected and (0 scientific papers submitted for publication in Canadian journals must state clearly that all work was performed in compliance with the Canadian Council on Animal Care Guide. 
Can he also say whether this authoritative guidance at Federal level, extending through the scientific grants system of the Medical Research Council and the National Research Council, is responsible for the present high standards of laboratory animal care in Canada. 
In view of the present extreme public disquiet in Australia, will he instruct his Department, as a matter of urgency, to investigate fully what body or bodies should be set up in Australia to raise standards of laboratory animal care in this country. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 13 April 1978: 
1 ) What type of coal is considered most suitable for conversion to oil or gas. 
Where are reserves of this type of coal located in Australia, what is the quantity of coal in each reserve and who owns these reserves. 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 11 April 1978: 
1 ) Is it a fact that (a) unemployed persons are allowed to earn up to $6 per week in addition to their unemployment benefits before their benefits' are reduced and (b) that students in receipt of TEAS allowances are allowed to earn up to $25 per week in addition to their allowances. 
If so, will the Minister consider introducing legislation to ensure that the $6 per week limit on additional income earned by unemployment persons is increased to a figure comparable to the figure applying to TEAS students, bearing in mind that the former has not been reviewed and adjusted since 1969. 
-I prevail upon the House because the proposal affects my constituents. I would like to ask one question of both the Minister for Construction  (Mr McLeay)  and the honourable member for Canning  (Mr Bungey):  who is the  Chairman  of the Joint Committee on Public Works. When the Committee examined this matter did it consider the contingency of the extension of Adelaide airport? Is this matter under consideration, or has it now been rejected? 

 Mr BUNGEY (Canning)-by leave-The Joint Committee on Public Works did not consider this matter although it was told that there are plans to extend one of the runways across Tapleys Hill Road. We were advised that there is certainly no firm proposal at this stage for this to happen. We were also told that the advisory committee would make a report. The Public Works Committee made its recommendations on the basis of the current runways being used. 
When do they expect to report? 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 2 May 1978: 
1 ) Is it a fact that the recent amendment to the income tax averaging provisions for primary producers has the effect, in the years ending 30 June 1977 and 1978, of ensuring that a rate of tax applicable to a primary producer can be no more than that relating to a taxable income of $ 1 6,000. 
If so, would the so-called Pitt Street and Collins Street farmers and other wealthy persons, only pay a rate of tax approximating 32c in the dollar on their annual incomes which amount to, in some cases, hundreds of thousands of dollars. 
Is it a fact that the amendment in question confers a tremendous benefit on the Pitt Street and Collins Street primary producers, but little or no benefit to  bona fide  farmers without income from non-farming sources. 
I preface my question, which is addressed to the Minister for National Development, by saying that there are a million people who depend on the quality of River Murray water for their livelihood and that, frankly, they are sick to death of the Federal and State governments, since 1914, passing the buck. They want some action taken. 
I draw the attention of the House to what I consider is an excellent article in the  Bulletin  of 16 May 1978. It states: 
Leading Sydney company liquidator Roy Pegler . . . believes indeed that the growth of corporate crime is positively encouraged by the ineffectual attack mounted against it. . . . the attack on corporate crime is hopelessly inadequate . . . the lack of attack on corporate crime is not only inadequate but encourages its growth ... the pursuit of corporate crime through the equity division of the Supreme Court is not, except in very few cases, successfuland even if a conviction is obtained the penalties are not a deterrent to those who indulge in this conduct. 
A case involving a constituent in my area will highlight just how disastrous to the ordinary investor are those deficiencies- the absence of adequate corporate or securities legislation. The case concerns the collapse of Cambridge Credit Corporation in September 1974. It involves the total loss of the life savings of a 66-year-old man. He put $21,125 into Cambridge Credit. It had been this man's intention to be independent throughout his life and at least to retire reasonably well on the returns from his investments. How does a man feel when his hard-earned life savings and his independence suddenly disappear and there is nothing that he can do about it? He cannot comprehend how a company such as Cambridge Credit, claiming assets and goodwill in excess of $180m, could collapse over night, depriving 38,000 debenture holders of their investments without being answerable to the law. Certainly the present laws which allow gross mismanagement of funds to occur without any redress must and ought be changed. 
I believe it was remarked by  Mr Justice  Waddell that in view of the large sum of $1 10m involved in the Cambridge collapse, the Corporate Affairs Commission should take out proceedings against the directors and auditors of the company for misrepresentation. From the contents of the letter from my constituent, it would certainly appear that the auditors of Cambridge Credit Corporation should accept their responsibility in this matter. In early 1973 my constituent was informed by Fell and Starkey, the accountants for Cambridge Credit, that his investment with Cambridge Credit was $ 17,087 when in fact it was $2 1,200. The feeble excuses offered for the discrepancy of more than $4,000 make it obviously evident that a most reprehensible audit had been carried out. The collapse of Cambridge, along with many other companies that fall into receivership, is too often a case of incompetent mismanagement, even fraud, by those people managing the company. We often see the names of a number of those people in the Honours List on 1 January each year. It is time that the interests of ordinary people, such as my constituent,  Mr Ashbourne,  were protected and that our corporate laws were overhauled. In the matter of Cambridge Credit, I call on the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  to initiate an investigation into the company's affairs. 1 wish to mention one or two other points briefly. There is a critical need for uniform national law in company, corporate and securities law. Unquestionably, it hinges on the prices that governments are prepared to pay in achieving it. One can relate this matter to the indisputable philosophical differences between this side of the House and the other side. The position to which I strongly hold is that corporate operations ought to be monitored and to some extent regulated to protect the individual and the community. Honourable members on the other side of the House believe that private enterprise ought to make its own ground rules. The situation in Queensland is a classic example. It is a dog-eat-dog situation in the market place. The consumer is scarcely a bone of contention in the struggle. At least in South Australia consumer laws have been structured to protect the consumer, but in Queensland the situation is quite the reverse. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 9 March 1978: 
1 ) In view of the recent forecast by the National Energy Advisory Committee that natural gas usage in Australia is expected to increase from 8 to 1 6 per cent of Australia 's total energy requirements by 198S, will he take positive action to ensure that the Mereenie oil and gas field in the Northern Territory is fully explored in the national interest. 
Will he ensure that the exploration effort needed is directed in such a manner that, if successful, the Mereenie field is made productive by 1985 to supply markets in Adelaide, Sydney and Brisbane. 
Will he give consideration to securing additional funds from revenue for this vital exploration in the same manner in which the South Australian Government found it necessary to intensify exploration in the Cooper Basin of South Australia. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 15 March 1978: 
1 ) What progress has been made regarding his commitment to introduce legislation for the regulation of insurance brokers. 
) Will he confer with the Attorney-General to determine whether the Law Reform Commission reference on brokers has been completed. 
If the report has been completed, (a) when does he expect to receive it and (b) when will it be tabled in the Parliament. 
If the report has not been completed, is this noncompletion preventing his Department from formulating legislation. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 5 April 1 978: 
1 ) What positive results have been reached by consultation with the States towards the establishment of a National Securities and Exchange Commission during the eight years since the establishment of the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange. 
When his predecessor foreshadowed joint Commonwealth and State companies and securities legislation on 7 July 1 976, what was the anticipated date for the introduction legislation. 
What is now the anticipated date for the introduction of this legislation. 
In view of the necessity to bring stability, confidence and honesty to the investment market, will the Government enact legislation to (a) prevent trading malpractices including insider trading and short selling, (b) provide for the registration of companies listed on stock exchanges, (c) provide for registration of stock exchanges, (d) define the powers and duties of stockbrokers and (e) provide full and fair disclosure requirements in the issuing of prospectuses and other information. 
What provisions will the intended national companies legislation contain in the following areas: (a) protection of minority shareholders, (b) the conduct of directors and controllers, (c) the powers of companies and (d) reform of the present system of annual accounts. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 24 May 1978: 
Has his attention been drawn to a letter by  Dr D.  H. Tucker to the  Australian  on 12 May 1978, which highlights the effects of cutbacks on the operation of the Bureau of Mineral Resources. 
If so, will the Government order an open review of BMR operations as suggested by  Dr Tucker. 
Will the Government conduct a similar review of the operation of other authorities coming under the control of his Department. 
Does the situation at BMR provide another indication that lack of staff is the real reason for the Government being unable to develop a national energy policy. 
Has the attention of the Acting Prime Minister been drawn to the recent report of the International Energy Agency which confirms authoritative predictions of a world liquid fuel crisis in the 1990s? Is he further aware that the parliaments of the United States of America, the European Economic Community and the United Kingdom all have policy committees to monitor and report upon their fuel and energy needs? Whilst  1  am grateful to the Attorney-General for intimating that he will set up a parliamentary committee to monitor the Family Law Act, I venture the proposition that fuel and energy has a far higher priority than the Family Law Act. As the critical problem of fuel and energy will be no less acute - 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 9 May 1978: 
Has his attention be drawn to a report in the  Australian Dried Fruit News  of April 1978, that the New South Wales Government has decided to proceed alone with the construction of five tube wells in the Boeill Creek area, after months of procrastination by the River Murray Commission and State and Federal governments. 
If so, does this provide yet another indication that fragmented control over the Murray River and its catchment areas is not in the best interests of effective management of the Murray River system. 
Is he able to say whether the report prepared by Maunsell and Partners into the standardisation of the Port Pirie-Adelaide railway line in the late 1960s has been ignored by his colleague, the Minister for Transport, and that the same Minister called for another report by a different engineer into this project in 1976; if so, will he give an assurance that the report currently being prepared by Maunsell and Panners into salinity and drainage problems in the Murray River will be treated more seriously by him than the earlier Maunsell report was treated by the Minister for Transport. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 24 May 1978: 
What progress has the Government made in implementing the report of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Specific Learning Difficulties. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 25 May 1978: 
In view of the urgent need to review the Family Law Act when will the Attorney-General recommend to the Government the establishment of a Parliamentary Committee to review the Family Law Act (Question No. 240,  Hansard,  4 April 1978, page 972). 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 22 February 1978: 
1 ) Did he say in answer to question No. 990  (Hansard,  1 8 August 1977, page 487) that the interdepartmental committee examining the 6th Report of the Royal Commission on Petroleum was expected to complete its report in the near future; if so, can he now say what decisions the Government has taken on the Commission's 6th Report. 
Does the Government intend to take any action to increase the usage of liquefied petroleum gas within Australia, and maximise the benefits derived from liquefied petroleum gas exports, in line with the recommendations of the 6th Report of the Royal Commission on Petroleum. 
As the Royal Commission has recommended that the principal areas in which liquefied petroleum gas should be used are Melbourne, Sydney and Adelaide, will he discuss with State energy Ministers from Victoria, New South Wales and South Australia and/or industry representatives, the problems of liquefied petroleum gas usage in those States. 
Has the Government considered the adoption of an automotive propane specification such as the United States Natural Gas Processors Association Specification HD 5; if not, will it do so. 
Did he also say in answer to question No. 168 (6)  (Hansard,  4May 1977, page 1583) that it is the policy of the Government to encourage the use of LPG in commercial vehicles and fleets; if so, what action has the Government taken to give effect to this policy. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 5 April 1978: 
1 ) Is it a fact that some Life Companies are investing superannuation funds which are held in trust for employees, back in the employing company, despite the statutory provisions of the Life Insurance Act. 
Is this form of investment considered to be in the best interest of policy owners; if not, will he take appropriate legislative action to safeguard the interest of policy holders in the event of such a company suffering from liquidity difficulties caused by this type of investment. 
Will he examine provisions in this area in the United Kingdom. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 5 April 1 978: 
1 ) When did Federal grants for legal aid to State law society schemes begin. 
What sums were given during 1976-77. 
When was it decided to stop making these grants. 
When were law societies notified of the decision. 
When were State Governments notified of the decision. 
Did the Attorney-General or any other Minster make public statements explaining the Government's decision to discontinue funding law society legal aid schemes. 
When will the freeze on expansion of the Australian Legal Aid Office be lifted. 
How many States have indicated a preparedness to sign agreements for the takeover of Australian Legal Aid Offices in 1977-78. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 6 April 1978: 
Has his attention been drawn to the decision of McGarvie, J., of the Victorian Supreme Court in James Miller Holdings Pty Ltd v Graham and Ors. 
If so, is it a fact that the judgment reveals serious deficiencies in the law relating to superannuation funds. 
Is it also a fact that there ought to be specific requirements to ensure a fair distribution of superannuation funds on liquidation of the company concerned. 
Does the Government consider that there ought to be provisions to prevent conflict of interests arising between trustees of superannuation funds and (a) the company, (b) the creditors of the company, (c) directors of the company, (d) receivers and (e) particular employees of the Company. 
What action does the Government intend to take either of its own volition or in conjunction with the States to prevent a repetition of the serious hardship caused to longterm employees of James Miller Holdings Pty Ltd and the consequential loss of faith of employees generally in superannuation funds. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 13 April 1978: 
1 ) How frequently will the Prices Justification Tribunal review the transport costs of motor fuels which will affect payments under the States Grants Petroleum Products) Amendment Act. 
Will the Prices Justification Tribunal consider submissions from independent bodies or their interested groups relating to these transport costs and, in particular, will cost estimates from independent cartage contractors be considered by the Prices Justification Tribunal. 
If so, will the Tribunal take the lowest cost estimate as the basis for its determination; if not, why not. 
Has his attention been drawn to an address by  Mr L.  T. Froggatt,  Chairman  of Shell, to the International Cargo Handling Co-ordination Association on 21 March 1978, in which  Mr Froggatt  stated that it is cheaper for Shell to send petrol or distillate to Roma, Queensland, by road from Sydney, a distance of 850 miles, than by rail from Brisbane, 300 miles away. 
As the Queensland and Western Australian Governments restrict the use of road transport to certain distances from their capital city and major rail heads, will the Prices Justification Tribunal determine transport costs on the estimation that the much more expensive rail transport is used. 
If so, (a) will payments under the States Grants (Petroleum Products) Amendment Act be an inappropriate way of subsidising State railway systems and (b) what will be the additional cost of using rail transport instead of road transport in Queensland and Western Australia. 
What mechanism will be used to check the volume of petrol sold in a particular country location to prevent a company claiming exorbitant sales and thereby abusing the scheme. 
What penalties will apply for any abuse. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 2 May 1978: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to a recent press report that Bankcard expects to make a profit of nearly $ I m by way of charges levied for late payments caused by delays brought on by the recent postal strike in New South Wales. 
) If so, are these charges justifiable. 
Will he make immediate inquiries as to whether the impost is legal. 
Will he undertake to introduce legislation which assures that payment by a card holder to any branch of a member of Bankcard is payment to Bankcard itself. 
asked the Minister representing the 
Attorney-General, upon notice, on 9 May 1 978: 
1 ) Has the Attorney-General's attention been drawn to a report in the  Australian  of 5 May 1978 which stated that Australia's first lie detector consultancy has opened in Sydney. 
What restrictions apply to the use of lie detectors in Australia. 
Has the Attorney-General's attention also been drawn to press reports, for example that appearing in the  Age  of 3 March 1978, which indicate that an increasing number of American companies are asking, and even forcing, employees and job applicants to use lie detectors without clearcut guidelines as to their operation; if so, will the AttorneyGeneral give urgent attention to preventing the unnecessary invasion of privacy by the use of these devices in Australia. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 24 May 1 978: 
Is he able to say (a) how much yellowcake was diverted or hijacked in the Plumbat Affair and (b) what safeguards applied to EURATOM yellowcake at the time. 
What action can be taken to prevent diversion or hijacking of Australian yellowcake sold to EURATOM or any other buyer. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 24 May 1978: 
1 ) Which companies have received quotas for imported footwear on each occasion that quotas have been allocated since 1975, and what portion of the total quota has each company received. 
Is it a fact that one company and/or its subsidiaries has a major share of footwear quotas, not taking into consideration the anomalies quota; if so, what is this company. 
Were quotas introduced to protect employment and investment in Australian footwear industries; if so, why is special treatment given by way of anomalies quotas to companies which produce shoes overseas and import them into Australia. 
Which companies and/or their subsidiaries have received quotas under the anomalies quota, and what portion of the total anomalies quota has each company received. 
Is it a fact that one company and/or its subsidiaries has received 60-70 per cent of the anomalies quota; if so, (a ) what is this company, (b) what is the anomaly involved and (c) why does this company not use its normal quota to import footwear. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 26 May 1978: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to a statement by  Mr G.  Wells,  Chairman  of the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society Ltd, in the Adelaide  News  of 9 May 1978 that the Government is examining the whole area of taxation relating to Life Offices; if so, is there any substance in the report. 
) If the Government is examining this area: 
when did the review begin, (b) who is conducting the review, (c) when will it be completed and (d) will it be tabled in the House for consideration. 
Does the Government intend to insert a provision in the Income Tax Assessment Act along similar lines to subsection 82 (H) which was amended in 1973 and deleted in 1 975; if so, will he indicate the costs involved. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 3 1 May 1978: 
Further to his answer to question No. 1  (Hansard,  8 March 1978, page 569), when will he table the recommendations of the interdepartmental Committee and the decisions of the Government on the review of the procedures relating to the issue of passports in cases where there is a danger of child abduction. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 2 May 1978: 
1) Is it a fact that Community Youth Support Schemes (CYSS) groups in South Australia are purchasing material and equipment for their programs through local government bodies to avoid paying sales tax, hence ensuring that their financial resources are used to maximum efficiency. 
Is it also a fact that in doing so the material and equipment purchased by these groups must remain the property of the respective local government body. 
If so, is the effectiveness of CYSS being negated. 
Can he give an assurance that the situation will be investigated at the earliest opportunity. 
If so, will he consider altering the Act to make provision for the purchasing activities of the CYSS groups and to allow them to retain ownership of material and equipment purchased. 
Alternatively, will he investigate the possibility of altering the appropriate legislation to allow CYSS groups to undertake their own purchasing of materials and equipment free of sales tax. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 23 May 1 978: 
1 ) What International Atomic Energy Agency safeguards will apply to future shipments of Australian yellowcake to the Philippines. 
What IAEA safeguards will apply to (a) uranium hexafluoride, (b) enriched uranium and (c) plutonium and uranium obtained from reprocessing. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 23 May 1978: 
In respect of any future shipments of Australian uranium to the Philippines, which country will (a) carry out the conversion of Australian yellowcake to uranium hexafluoride, (b) enrich the uranium hexafluoride, (c) carry out fuel fabrication, (d) accept the spent fuel rods for reprocessing, (e) accept the recycled plutonium and uranium and (f) accept the nuclear waste. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 24 May 1 977: 
1 ) Has Englehard Minerals and Chemicals Corporation of the United States of America obtained an interest in a large West Australian kaolin deposit. 
Is kaolin regarded as a potential source of aluminium; if so, how much aluminium is contained in the deposit. 
Does the United States have access to technology for extracting aluminium from kaolin. 
Is it a fact that the process by which aluminium is extracted from kaolin also produces titanium as a valuable by-product. 
Will he (a) urgently investigate whether the interest in the kaolin deposits referred to in part ( 1 ) is to utilise these deposits ultimately as a substitute for bauxite and (b) take all steps to protect Australia's interest in these valuable deposits. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 22 February 1978: 
Can he say whether the 1976 New Zealand Commission of Inquiry into Motor Spirits recommended that the New Zealand Government closely watch international developments in the oil industry; if so, is he able to give the reason for this recommendation. 
What arrangements has the Government made to monitor potentially damaging developments in international oil distribution to Australia. 
Is he also able to say whether the 1976 New Zealand Commission of Inquiry noted that long term security of supply of oil is of prime importance; if so, what steps has the Government taken to ensure long term security in view of the increasing Australian dependence on imported crude oil. 
In view of the recommendation of the New Zealand Commission of Inquiry that a detailed investigation of supply costs would be in the public interest, does the Government intend to examine the supply costs of petroleum and petroleum products in Australia. 
Is he also able to say whether the New Zealand Commission of Inquiry concluded quite emphatically that the existing price and motor spirit distribution controls should be maintained; if so, does the Government intend to examine the Commission's Report to see whether controls should be introduced in Australia on profits the number of retailers and the lease agreements between wholesalers and retailers in the petroleum distribution industry. 
Does the Government see the need for an examination of the potential cost savings from Government ownership of coastal oil tankers as was suggested by the New Zealand Commission of Inquiry. 
In view of the New Zealand Commission of Inquiry's recommendation that price control of imported products be continued, does the Government plan to introduce price controls over imported petroleum products into Australia. 
As the New Zealand Commission of Inquiry noted that the absence of controls in Australia has not produced a market place giving satisfaction either to the oil companies or to the retailers, does the Government agree that controls on petroleum distribution should be introduced in Australia. 
Does the Government agree with the New Zealand Commission of Inquiry's observation that there is a substantial overcapitalisation in the petroleum industry in Australia. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice on 22 February 1978: 
1 ) As the interdepartmental committee set up to examine the 5th Report of the Royal Commission on Petroleum presented its Report to the Government over 5 months ago, what decisions has the Government taken on the recommendations of the Commission. 
Has he had discussions with the New South Wales Government about the reservation of a site on the Kurnell Peninsula for an oil refinery, in line with the recommendation of the Royal Commission. 
Does the Government accept the Commission's recommendation that Australia should retain refining selfsufficiency; if so, will the Government formulate a cohesive refinery policy with reasoned haste as is suggested by the Commission. 
Does the Government propose that imports of motor spirit beyond a critical level will not be acceptable in the absence of proposals to add to Australian refining capacity. 
As the Commission suggests that there could be problems raising the capital necessary for any future refinery in Australia, will the Government initiate discussions with industry representatives to encourage a consortium or other arrangement of producers to build the new refinery Australia will need by 1985. 
6 ) Will he accept the recommendation of the Royal Commission that the Government should not under-write any oil refinery in Central Australia. 
Will he initiate in the context of a national energy policy a study of the relative benefits of developing natural gas from the Mereenie fields as against the refinery proposal. 
Has his attention been drawn to an article in the Adelaide 'Advertiser' of 7 February 1978 which reports that many service stations in Adelaide are selling super grade petrol up to 3 cents a litre cheaper than standard grade and that many petrol resellers no longer stock standard grade; if so, is this trend in motor spirit consumption contrary to the national interest. 
In the interest of consumers, will he hold discussions with the oil industry with a view to changing the present ratio of premium/standard grade petrol consumption so that the cost of lead phase down proposals may be avoided while still ensuring that no more ambient lead enters the environment than is presently the case. 
Will he take steps to ensure that the design of petrol engines is compatible with any change in petroleum octane ratings. 
Does he intend to create a larger price differential between premium and standard grade petrol to effect changes in the sales ratio of premium/standard grade petrol. 
As widespread use of liquefied petroleum gas in motor vehicles would reduce the level of lead in the atmosphere and thereby reduce the cost of current lead phase down programs, will he give urgent attention to this matter. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 2 March 1978: 
1 ) What action has been taken, or will be taken, to implement recommendation 20 of the report on the Middle East tabled in June 1977 by the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence which urges the Government to encourage the development of all feasible energy sources including the complete abolition of the Federal tax on liquefied petroleum gas which raises little revenue. 
Does the recommendation also urge the granting of subsidies for the cost of conversion to the manufacturers of engines suitable for LPG. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 24 May 1978: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to my repeated requests for the urgent amendment of the Australian Capital Territory Companies Ordinance relating to Defaulting Officer Provisions. 
Is it a fact that because of the failure to amend these Ordinances the Australian Capital Territory is now some 12 years behind Victoria. 
Will he give urgent consideration to effecting the appropriate amendment. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 6 June 1978: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to an article in the  Canberra Times  of 30 May 1978 relating to investment in uranium exploration and production in some 54 foreign countries including Australia, by the Iranian Atomic Energy Organisation. 
If so, (a) in what areas, (b) in what form, and (c) in what companies are these alleged investments taking place, and what level of equity has this organisation in investments in Australia. 
) What other foreign governments or instrumentalities, or foreign private companies with the backing of foreign governments, are investing in exploration and ultimate development of Australia 's uranium deposits. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 2 March 1 978: 
1 ) What action has been taken or will be taken on recommendations 17 and 18 of the report on the Middle East tabled in June 1977 by the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence which urged the development of policies to deflect from Australia some of the consequences of the possible future conflict in the Middle East. 
Can he say whether evidence taken by the Committee indicated that interruption of Arab oil supplies could lead to an additional 500,000 unemployed unless Australia takes some precautionary measures. 
asked the Minister for Productivity, upon notice, on 9 May 1 978: 
1 ) What sum has the Australian Government spent on the development and promotion of InterScan. 
Is he able to say what sum the Government of the United States of America has spent on the promotion of Interscan. 
What sum does the Government estimate that it will recover from the manufacture of InterScan equipment within Australia. 
Will Australia receive any other benefit from the acceptance of InterScan by the International Civil Aviation Organisation. 
5 ) Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a statement by the Federal Secretary of the Association of Architects, Engineers, Surveyors and Draughtsmen,  Mr E.  Benjamin, reported in the Sydney  Sun  of 26 April 1978, which called on the Government to co-ordinate the advanced development and marketing of inventions like InterScan; if so, does the Government intend to take a central role in the manufacture and marketing of InterScan, as suggested by  Mr Benjamin. 
Will the Government take up the suggestion of  Mr Benjamin  and call together unions and potential manufacturers of InterScan to encourage co-operation on this project; if not, why not. 
Was the Government prepared and ready to proceed with the manufacture of InterScan as soon as it was endorsed by ICAO; if so, what action has the Government taken. 
If the Government was not prepared, what were the reasons. 
asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice, on 24 May 1978: 
1 ) In view of the fact that the Government has rejected sales tax cuts as a measure to assist the motor industry, will the Government now consider providing a selective cut in pay-roll tax for the motor vehicle building industry, in conjunction with State Governments. 
Would a cut in pay-roll tax greatly assist employment in the ailing motor vehicle industry because (a) it would have an advantage over sales tax cuts in that assistance would only go to Australian manufacturers and not foreign producers and (b) any benefit from payroll tax reductions would depend on employment levels within the industry. 
What would be the approximate cost of a total cut in pay-roll tax for the motor vehicle building industry. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 24 May 1978: 
1 ) Will he initiate a total review of the existing legislation to remedy the deficiencies exposed in the review of Australian Quarantine Arrangements (Parliamentary Paper 321/1977). 
Is there a very high risk of the introduction of diseases and pests into northern Australia by illegal landings of Indonesian, Taiwanese and other fishing vessels; if so, what steps are being taken to (a) reduce such landings, (b) monitor the fauna and flora at known landing sites for evidence of introductions, and (c) cope with any disease or pest formerly not encountered in Australia. 
Is it a fact that in the light of changing patterns of import trade sources, Australia is likely to experience changes in the nature and variety of exotic pests introduced with imported goods; if so, will he initiate the following steps: (a) an assessment of the existing data available for the identification and control of exotic plants, and vertebrate and invertebrate animals, (b) an independant opinion on the sufficiency and accessibility of such data for emergency use, and whether the channels of communication within and between Australia and State quarantine and pest organisations are adequate to meet such an emergency and (c) and investigation to establish the potentially most serious vertebrate and invertebrate pests yet to enter Australia, and whether scientific expertise, control techniques, support facilities, and illustrated descriptive matter suitable for distribution in an emergency are available within Australia. 
Will he investigate the possibility of enlisting the cooperation of Australian and State National Parks and Wildlife Service officers jointly to maintain a watching brief for quarantine authorities regarding exotic animals, particularly in northern Australia, including a program for the training of rangers on the recognition of particular exotic pests, and the development of rapid communication channels. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 29 May 1978: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the 4th Annual Report of the Pipeline Authority which states that, on all evidence available at present, a transcontinental natural gas pipeline will become necessary and would be economic and further that the decision for commitment to the construction of the first stage of a transcontinental link will need to be made in about 1982, unless the need for a decision is deferred or rendered unnecessary in the meantime by substantial new discoveries in central Australia or the eastern States. 
If so, what action does the Government intend to take to meet the time frame indicated by the Authority. 
Will the Government take action to markedly increase exploration for natural gas concurrently with that for crude oil, as both have a role to play in meeting Australia 's increasing liquid fuel requirements and in reducing Australia's balance of payments problems. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 8 June 1 978: 
1 ) Will the national companies and securities laws which he proposed on 14 May 1978, provide for more stringent corporate criminal  responsibility as well as  individual criminal liability in matters relating to corporate and company law. 
In particular has consideration been given to the use of adverse publicity and community service orders as sanctions. 
Has he considered adopting more effective alternative approaches than corporate criminal responsibility, in particular, the possible use of preventive orders and internal discipline orders as recommended by the 4th Report of the South Australian Criminal Law and Penal Method Reform Committee, 1978. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on IS August 1978: 
How much is known about (a) the potentiation of alcohol by marihuana and (b) the interaction of marihuana with commonly prescribed medications. 
Is it a fact that marihuana is known to affect driving skills; if so, what levels in the blood are acceptable. 
What mechanism is available in order to measure serum levels of the active ingredient in the same way as blood alcohol levels are measured. 
How sure is he that the wide spread use of marihuana will not produce an increase in psychiatric disorders which are currently latent. 
Is it a fact that it took 40-50 years of cigarette smoking before it was realised as a causative effect in lung cancer. 
What will the effect of smoking marihuana, hashish, cannabis oil and other substances be on living tissue as well as the other organs in which the presence of cancer has a high correlation with smoking cigarettes. 
What will prevent the smokers of the cannabis plant from becoming users or heavy users of the resin and oil. 
Is it a fact that marihuana users can suffer from alteration of personality such as loss of initiative and ambition without suffering recognisable mental illness. 
Is it a fact that ethical drugs are subject to stringent safety requirements before they are released for human consumption. 
Because of the consumption of marihuana which has problems which could have long term effects, will he give an assurance that this drug will be subject to the same stringent safety requirements. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
1 ) Is he taking into account the proposals in the United Kingdom White Paper on the conduct of company directors in formulating the new co-operative companies and securities legislation. 
What proposals are before him for tightening up the standards of care applicable to company directors. 
What proposals are before him to prevent directors from abusing their positions in obtaining loans from their companies. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 9 March 1978: 
1 ) What is the procedure for changing the list of category A products which determines the allocation of indigenous crude oil to oil companies. 
Is the allocation agreement enforceable. 
What monitoring is carried out by the Government of the sales volume of category A products made by any particular oil company. 
Do any sales of fuel oil outside the capital cities of Australia qualify for an allocation of indigenous crude oil; if so, (a) where are the sales made, (b) to which customer or customers are they made, (c) which oil company makes the sale and (d ) what is the annual volume of fuel oil involved. 
Have any changes been made to an individual customer's fuel oil contract that would alter the status of fuel oil sold as a category A product or otherwise since January 1970; if so, (a) what was the nature of the change or changes, (b) which customer and which oil company was involved, and where was the sale made, (c) when was the change made, (d) what is the annual volume of fuel oil involved and (e) why was the change made. 
Will the Government consider changing the allocation agreement to alter the qualification of fuel oil as a category A product or otherwise. 
Have any discussions on this matter been held with oil companies since November 1975; if so, when and what was the nature of the discussions. 
Has his attention been drawn to the report of the Industries Assistance Commission of 30 September 1976 that anomalies in the allocation system result in a serious mis-allocation of resources; if so, what action has the Government taken or does it intend to take. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 30 May 1 978: 
1 ) How much plutonium is under the control of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission. 
Are (a) HIFAR 's fuel rods and (b) other materials irradiated by HIFAR, such as uranium oxide, covered by international safeguards. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 24 May 1978: 
1 ) Will he take appropriate action to prevent directors or other officers of companies leaving Australia when this is recommended by inquiries of either corporate or insurance affairs commissioners. 
Is it a fact that there are similarities between the collapse of VIP Insurances Ltd in New South Wales and the V. and G. Insurance Company in the United Kingdom. 
Will he set up a wide-ranging inquiry headed by an actuary to investigate and report upon the methods by which accounting procedures for general insurance companies may be tightened up to avoid situations leading to insolvency as was done in the United Kingdom in the case of the V. and G. Insurance Company. 
Is it a fact that very liberal exchange control procedures exist relating to reinsurance transactions. 
In view of the exploitation of these procedures in 2 areas, first the syphoning off of profits to overseas parent companies, and secondly, as appears probable with VIP Insurances, the transfer of reinsurance funds outside Australia, will he take immediate steps to instruct the Reserve Bank to close those loopholes. 
Has his attention been drawn to the annual report of  Mr Bassett,  Commissioner for General Insurance, on the need for additional staff; if so, could the detection of the liquidity problems of VIP Insurances have been effected much earlier had the Commissioner had additional staff. 
Will he take urgent steps to increase the staff necessary to allow the Commissioner to operate more efficiently. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 2 June 1978: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to recent Press reports of the meeting of the Standing Committee of State and Federal Attorneys-General, held in Melbourne on 7 and 8 April 1978, intimating that significant agreement had been reached towards uniform credit and sale of goods legislation. 
Has his attention also been drawn to the report that no undertaking had been given by the Federal Government to amend the Trade Practices Act to conform with the proposed uniform code; if so, has this matter been considered by the Government and will the Trade Practices Act be amended in the near future. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to press reports that the liquidator investigating VIP Insurances Ltd revealed that the reinsurer, the All State Insurance Company of the United States of America, had a back door agreement with VIP which enabled the reinsurer to pay less by way of reinsurance than was revealed to the Insurance Commissioner as required under the  Insurance Act  1 973. 
Will he demand from All State Insurance Co. a full explanation as to why it entered into a back door agreement and will he instruct the Insurance Commissioner to examine all reinsurance contracts affecting all Australian companies where the All State Insurance Co. is a contracting party. 
If the All State Insurance Company's explanations are unsatisfactory will he take steps to declare this company as an unsatisfactory reinsurer. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 30 May 1978: 
Further to his answer to question No. 939  (Hansard,  29 May 1978, page 27 14), who owns or controls the reserves of coal suitable for conversion to oil or gas which he listed. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 20 September 1978: 
Has his attention been drawn to an article in the  National Times  for the week ending 1 July 1978, concerning a  Mr Brian  Maher described in the article as a scourge of the tax man; if so, in view of this taxpayer's alleged activities and the effect of those activities on Government revenue, has he or the Commissioner for Taxation given consideration to prosecuting  Mr Maher  under section 5 of the Commonwealth Crimes Act for aiding and abetting offences against the Income Tax Assessment Act or under section 86 of the Crimes Act for conspiracy to commit an offence or to prevent or defeat the execution or enforcement of the tax legislation. 
Is he satisfied that the Commissioner for Taxation is doing everything possible to ensure that  Mr Maher,  as well as his clients, are paying their fair share of the tax burden. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
1 ) How many prosecutions were instituted under sections (a) 223, (b) 227, (c) 229, (d) 230 and (e) 231 of the Income Tax Assessment Act during (i) 1975, (ii) 1976 and (iii) 1977. 
How many of the prosecutions in each of the above categories resulted in a conviction. 
How many persons have served or are serving gaol terms as a result of convictions in each of the categories in pan ( 1 ) above. 
How many staff of the Australian Taxation Office have, as a major component of their duties, responsibility for ensuring that all persons required to submit tax returns are in fact doing so. 
Is he satisfied that sufficient staff are available to meet the responsibilities involved. 
Can he estimate how many persons, individuals, companies, partnerships and trusts were required to submit an income tax return for 1976-77. 
How many income tax returns have been received up to 31 March 1978 for 1976-77. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 20 September 1 978: 
1 ) With reference to his answer to question No. 49 1 (4)  (Hansard,  1 June 1976, page 2781), do the 230 food additives that he claims are approved for use in Australia include food flavours; if not, how many food flavours are licensed for use in Australia and has any evaluation been made of them. 
) Have all the additives approved for use been individually evaluated in Australia. 
Is it a fact that Australia allows higher concentrations of some additives such as food colours than other countries and higher than is recommended by the World Health Organisation. 
What additives in particular are placed under continual review and where can the public acquire information on these tests. 
Are all additives examined for pharmacological activity in Australia; if not, why not. 
Is the industry or the Government responsible for safety testing off additives 
What are the names of the members comprising the Food Standards Committee and the Nutrition Committee, and by which companies or Government Departments are they employed. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
1 ) Does the 1978-79 Budget provide $30,000 for preliminary research and planning for a national energy conservation publicity campaign, and no further allocation. 
If so, does this indicate that the campaign will not begin before July 1979. 
When is the campaign likely to begin and why will the planning phase take so long. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 22 February 1978: 
Has the Government considered the question of Australia becoming a member of the oil consumer organisation, the International Energy Agency. 
If so, what are the reasons why Australia has chosen not to become a member. 
Is the Government likely to reconsider this question as Australia becomes more reliant on imported oil. 
With which aims of the Agency does the Government disagree and what is the reason for the disagreement. 
Does Australia co-operate with the IEA in any way, such as exchanging statistics. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 2 March 1978: 
1 ) What action has the Australian Government taken in respect of recommendation 22 of the report on the Middle East tabled in June 1977 by the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence which urges that both Commonwealth and State Governments should have at all times, in advanced preparation, the necessary legislation to implement the conservation of scarce energy products. 
What action has the Government taken to revise and amend the Liquid Fuels (Defence Stocks) Act. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 20 September 1978: 
Has his attention been drawn to a report in the  Advertiser  of 10 June 1978, which alleges that the Exxon Corporation in the United States had overcharged customers by $A 1 6 1 .3 m for crude oil since 1 973 , by selling what should have been classified old oil as new oil. 
2 ) Has a subsidiary of the company referred to in part ( 1 ) been involved in oil production in Bass Strait during the same period, when a tiered system of pricing for crude oil sold in Australia has been in operation; if so, will he investigate whether any similar malpractice has occurred here. 
If he is not prepared to carry out an investigation, is it because supervision of the oil industry in Australia is superior to that in the United States; if so, in what respects. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 10 October 1978: 
1 ) Further to his answer to question No. 1689  (Hansard.  12 September 1978, page 911), which gives some acknowledgement of the dangers of drug interaction with marihuana, can he give an assurance that accurate assessments of interactions involving commonly used drugs and Tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) will be made. 
Will he give an assurance that there will be reliable methods for measuring the blood levels of THC, especially blood levels and their relation to driving skills, before there is any change in the law concerning individual use of the drug. 
Is it a fact that while the majority of social users do not progress to heavier use under current legislation, there is no guarantee that this will be so if there is a change to legalise or decriminalise the use of marihuana. 
If so, can he give an assurance that changes in the law concerning marihuana in other western societies will be thoroughly evaluated before considering changes in Australia. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 18 October 1978: 
1 ) Is he able to say whether in the past when important visitors have gone to the USSR, such as President Nixon in 1972 and 1974, the Soviet Government has placed in custody a large number of persons who may have protested against Soviet violations of basic human rights; if so, has this included recall of other dissidents for further psychiatric treatment in political hospitals. 
If the position is as stated, will he seek assurances from the Soviet Government that it will cease to place in custody the large number of persons who may protest against the Soviet Government's violation of basic human rights during the forthcoming 1980 Olympic Games. 
asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice, on 24 August 1978: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the comments of  Mr Ashley  Goldsworthy, a Past  President  of the Australian Computer Society and  Chairman  of its Social Implications Committee, in the  Financial  .Review of 12 June 1978, calling on the Government to establish a technology planning council. 
If so, what action does the Government intend to take in this direction, bearing in mind the effect computers in particular, and other technology have upon the social and economic structures of society. 
3 ) If the Government does not intend to undertake such a task, what is the reason. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 28 September 1978: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the comments of the National Energy Advisory Committee on page 38 of its Second Report that the assessment of undiscovered petroleum resources currently in progress at the Bureau of Mineral Resources, with the assistance of the South Australian Mines Department and the co-operation of other Mines Departments, is being severely retarded by lack of expertise, statistical data and methodology and also that there are large areas for whch basic data and research are lacking to enable an adequate definition of viable plans for assessment and drilling and whose ultimate potential is unknown. 
If so, does the Committee's report support the comments made by staff of the Bureau of Mineral Resources earlier this year of the deleterious effects of Government cutbacks on the Bureau of National Resources operations. 
Further to his answer to question No. 1215  (Hansard,  7 June 1978, page 3230) when did the Australian Science and Technology Council review of the Bureau of Mineral Resources activities begin, and when is it due to report. 
Is it a fact that the Petroleum Exploration branch of the Bureau of Mineral Resources had a staff of 37 in the last year of the Labor Government. 
Is it also a fact that in 1977-78 the branch had a staff of 27 only and that Budget estimates for 1978-79 project a cut in staff to 21. 
If so, and in view of the comments of the NEAC how can he claim that petroleum exploration is a high priority of the Government. 
As the review of the Bureau of Mineral Resources by ASTEC was announced prior to the Budget, why do Budget estimates allow for a cut in staff of 20 for the Bureau in 1978-79. 
Have any staff been dismissed from the Bureau or positions left unfilled since 7 June 1978; if so, what are the details of these decisions. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 28 September 1978: 
On what basis has the Government determined the official import parity price for crude oil. 
Does the import parity price reflect transport costs from the Middle East; if so, how are these costs determined. 
What was the import parity price in August 1977 and what changes have occurred in this price since then. 
Will the import parity price in 1979 be determined on the same basis as that previously used; if not, how will the calculation vary. 
If there is an increase in import parity price in 1979, will the total increase in domestic crude oil prices pass to the Government as additional excise levy, or will part, or all, of it go to the producers. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 18 October 1978: 
Has his attention been drawn to the decision in Kareena Hospital Pty Ltd v. F.C.T., 78 ATC 45 1 6. 
Is it of concern that, although the Court decided that this was a tax avoidance arrangement within the meaning of section 260 of the Income Tax Assessment Act, the taxpayer still avoided paying tax because section 260 operates only as an annihilating provision and does not permit the Court to reconstruct transactions and arrangements to take account of their economic effects. 
What proposals does he have to amend section 260 of the Act to overcome the deficiencies revealed by this decision and a series of other High Court decisions. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 1 8 October 1 978: 
1 ) Did he state on 1 June, when he rejected major parts of the 5th report of the Royal Commission on Petroleum, that the community has been well served by the refining industry in the past and there is no reason to doubt that, given the right investment climate, it will continue to be so served in the future. 
Has his attention been drawn to a report in the Financial Review of 7 June 1978 that BP and Caltex will join forces in a major Singapore refinery project and that BP's involvement arose from the company's projected deficit of refined products in South East Asian and Australasian markets. 
Is he able to say whether the timing of this announcement only days after his statement was a coincidence and does this development provide an example of how well the Australian community has been, and will be, served by the petroleum refinery industry. 
Has he or his Department received any formal notification from BP or Caltex about this proposal. 
What effect will this project have on Australia's refining self-sufficiency. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 1 8 October 1 978: 
1 ) Did the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence recommend in its report entitled "The Middle EastFocal Point of Conflict' that Australian Armed Services attaches be posted to some Middle East countries so that Australia can independently assess some of the latest military technology for which the Middle East unfortunately has become the main proving ground. 
Did he indicate in answer to question No. 1395, (Hansard, 22 September 1977, page 1545), that the matter was being assessed. 
3 ) If so, when will he inform the Parliament of the results of this assessment in view of my previous question, and the Prime Minister's direction of 25 May 1978 that Ministers are to report to Parliament on the action that the Government proposes to take in relation to committee reports. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 1 8 October 1 978: 
What is the present capacity of Australian oil refineries. 
How much refined motor spirit and other petroleum products were imported into Australia for each of the last 10 years and by which companies. 
On present indications, how much refined motor spirit will be required in Australia in 1 985. 
How much extra refinery capacity will be required by 1985 if Australia is to achieve 100 percent self-sufficiency in refining capacity. 
5 ) How many persons would be employed in a refinery or refineries of this capacity. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 25 October 1 978: 
1 ) In view of the recent severe fighting in Lebanon with its inevitably high casualties among non-combatants, what aid is the Australian Government to give to Lebanon. 
Bearing in mind that impartiality between the communities in Lebanon is very important, but that humane and timely aid to the people is even more important, will the Australian Government encourage and even support nonGovernment welfare organisations to dispatch medical teams to Lebanon, to work in any areas where they are needed and welcomed, as recommended in the report entitled 'The Lebanon Crisis- Humanitarian Aspects' tabled in December 1976 by the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 28 September 1978: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to reports in  The News  of 1 9 September 1 978 of statements by the  President  of the Victorian Chamber of Commerce,  Mr J.  Harrower, which allege that investors looking for taxfree capital gains are causing property values in many shopping centres to skyrocket in value, triggering increases in rents and council rates unrelated to the climate, and forcing many businesses to the wall. 
Has the Government rejected the notion of capital gains taxation in preference to other forms of taxation; if so what is the reason, and how do these reasons stand in view of  Mr Harrower  's comments. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 18 October 1978: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to statements made by the  Deputy  Premier of South Australia,  Mr Corcoran,  at a Murray Valley Development League symposium on 6 October 1978, to the effect that he is unable to obtain a formal re-affirmation from Victoria and New South Wales of their agreement of October 1976 that the River Murray Commission take account of water quality in its planning and operations. 
Are these two States reluctant to proceed with the agreement of October 1976. If so, can he say what is the basis of the objections of these States. 
If the States are not reluctant, why has there been no progress on this matter in the last 2 years. 
Will he approach the New South Wales and Victorian Governments to re-affirm the agreement of October 1976 and to expedite the drafting of legislative amendments to give effect to this agreement. 
What is the legal status of the agreement of October 1976. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 18 October 1978: 
1 ) What action has he taken towards implementing the recommendations of the Trade Practices Commission in its 4th Annual Report for 1977-78 that the Trade Practices Act be amended (a) to permit a Court on the application of the Commission or Minister to freeze consumers' funds in the hands of fraudulent promoters pending proceedings, (b) to empower a Court to freeze consumers' funds and set aside transactions designed to defeat refund claims, (c) to permit the Commission to act on behalf of consumers in seeking compensation for fraudulent practices, (d) to ensure that the knowledge of a company's directors, servants and agents is imputed to the company so as to make the company responsible for their breaches of the legislation and (e) to provide that the prosecution may appeal against acquittals and on points of law in criminal matters. 
How many members of the staff of the Trade Practices Commission are engaged in the administration of the consumer protection provisions of the Trade Practices Act 
What action does he plan to take to overcome delays in the investigation and prosecution of sharp operators who are defrauding consumers, as reported in paragraph 4.25 of the Commisson 's 4th Annual Report for 1977-78. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 3 May 1978: 
1 ) How many staff are employed within his Department and related statutory authorities. 
What are the sections into which his Department and these statutory authorities are divided. 
Which of these sections are involved with the development or implementation of energy policies. 
What is the specific function of each of these sections. 
How many staff are in the energy policy-making sections and what are their professional qualifications. 
Can he say how many staff are employed by Governments on energy policy matters in (a) the United Kingdom, (b) the United states or America, (c) Canada, (d) Japan, (e) New Zealand, (f) France and (g) West Germany. 
Is it a fact that most countries of the world have many more employees involved in the implementation of energy policies than Australia. 
Will the National Energy Advisory Committee be asked to examine whether a single energy authority should be created, as was recommended by the Australian Science and Technology Council in its report on energy research and development in Australia (paragraph 4.7). 
Will the NEAC review the operations of his Department and related authorities to determine whether these bodies have the necessary expertise and human resources to develop and implement the national energy policies recommended by the NEAC. 
Does the Government intend to establish an Australian Energy Research Development and Demonstration Authority as was recommended by ASTEC. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 28 September 1978: 
1 ) What was the operating cost of the National Energy Advisory Committee during 1977-78 and what components made up this cost 
) What is the estimated cost for 1 978-79. 
What is the estimated cost in 1978-79 for the National Energy Research Development and Demonstration Council and what are the components of this cost. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 18 October 1978: 
When will he be reporting to the Parliament on the action that the Government has taken and proposes to take in accordance with the Prime Minister's direction of 25 May 1978 in relation to the report tabled in June 1977 by the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence on  The Middle East- Focal point of conflict. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 1 8 October 1978: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to a report in the  Age  of 1 1 October 1 978, where the Kuwaiti Oil Minister Ali Khalifa Al-Sabah, is reported as saying that industrialised countries were discouraging and obstructing OPEC countries from participating in the making of finished petroleum products and that officials of OPEC countries threatened to cut oil supplies to industrialised nations unless they helped OPEC countries develop refining capacity and share world markets. 
If so, have the major oil companies acted in the best interests of the OPEC countries. 
Will these same oil companies act in Australia's best interests as far as refining is concerned, as was stated in his press release of 1 June 1978. 
Does the Government accept the recommendations of the 5th Report of the Petroleum Royal Commission that Australia should maintain self-sufficiency in refining capacity. If so, what action has the Government taken to ensure this goal is met If not, why not. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 25 October 1978: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to a report in the  Weekend Australian  of 14 October 1978 where a spokesman for Caltex Oil (Aust.) Pty Ltd is reported as saying that apart from 1 1 inquiries, the oil industry has been subjected to 7 Royal Commissions since 1973. 
If so, (a) who conducted the 18 inquiries or commissions referred to, (b) what was the nature of the inquiries or commissions and (c) when were the results of these studies (i) given to the Government and (ii) released to the public. 
Has his attention also been drawn to reported statements by the spokesman for Caltex that the company wanted the whole question of oil prices taken away from the Prices Justification Tribunal and placed in the hands of his Department. 
Is the pressure applied by oil companies the reason for the Government's intended alteration of the operation of the PJT. 
When will the Government acquiesce to the oil companies and place oil price decisions with his Department. 
What aspects of the oil industry does his Department monitor, as reportedly claimed by the Caltex spokesman, and how many staff are involved in this work. 
If his Department monitors the activities of oil companies as claimed by the Caltex spokesman, why did he say m answer to my question No. 621  (Hansard,  12 September 1978, page 986) that detailed information concerning fuel oil sales of individual companies is not available to the Government. 
What statistics affecting the oil industry are kept by his Department and what is the source of these statistics. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 1 8 October 1978: 
1 ) In connection with the nuclear safeguards agreement between Australia and the Philippines signed on 8 August 1978, will Australian yellowcake attract full International Atomic Energy Agency safeguards at the time of shipment. 
) What IAEA safeguards will apply to the production of hexafluoride from Australian yellowcake overseas. 
3) What IAEA safeguards have been arranged for the enrichment of hexafluoride in the United States of America or elsewhere overseas. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 22 November 1978: 
1 ) Is it a fact that the Australian Legal Aid guidelines announced by the Attorney-General on 25 October 1978, requiring a  minimum  contribution of $20 in all cases, has already had a significant effect on the readiness of people to approach the Australian Legal Aid Office for assistance. 
Has the Attorney-General's attention been drawn to a definition of hardship given by a spokesman of the Australian Legal Aid Office in New South Wales in the Sydney  Sun  of 20 November 1978, that hardship refers to someone who is really down and out and does not have a penny. 
If so, what is the attitude of the Government to this definition. 
Has the Government failed to provide guidelines on this matter; if so, why. 
Will the Attorney-General consider urgently increases in staff for the Australian Legal Aid Office and the Family Court to assist people in matters of Family Law. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 18 October 1978. 
What is the strength of staff numbers of the Trade Practices Sub-office of the Crown Solicitor's Division. 
How many of the staff of the Sub-office are legally qualified. 
What proposals does the Attorney-General have for relieving the heavy strain on the limited resources of the Suboffice as reported at paragraph 1, page 60 of the Commission's 4th Annual Report for 1977-78. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 18 October 1978: 
Why did the Attorney-General decide not to request the Crown Solicitor to act on behalf of consumers concerned in matters which the Trade Practices Commission has brought before the court. 
How many requests for legal or financial assistance in bringing proceedings before the court, under the consumer protection provisions of the Trade Practices Act, did the Attorney-General receive in 1977-78. 
How many of those requests have been granted (a) in whole or (b) in part 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 18 October 1978: 
1) In respect of any future exports of Australian yellowcake is it intended that (a) the yellowcake will be converted to uranium hexafluoride in the UK and (b) the uranium hexafluoride will be enriched in the USA 
If so, how will Australian uranium be identified throughout these processes for safeguards purposes. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 23 November 1978: 
1 ) Are the activities of a data bank to collect, monitor and analyse national and international market trends for primary products essential if markets are to be effectively exploited and the national interest protected. 
Does the Government maintain such a data bank; if not, will he take urgent steps to establish one so that this information may be accessible to Australian companies. 
Would such a data bank be of greater benefit to Australian companies than the Government's export guidelines. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 28 September 1978: 
1 ) Has the Attorney-General or his Department studied the report of the New South Wales Corporate Affairs Commission into computer crime. 
Does he support the initiatives on computer crime control recently taken by the New South Wales AttorneyGeneral, and what support will the Government give to the States to combat crime of this nature. 
Have there been any cases of computer crime detected within Commonwealth Government Departments; If so, what was the nature of the crime and what were the sums involved. 
What measures has the Government taken to combat computer crime within Government Departments and what action has the Government taken to combat computer crime generally. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 13 September 1978: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to an article in the  Canberra Times  of 17 April 1978 emphasing that Australia has been offered a working unit of the world 's most advanced experimental laser fusion facility, the mother unit of which will produce 1 ,000 times more electric power than it uses. 
Is it a fact that for an approximate outlay of $ 10m Australian physicists studying fusion could close the quantum gap and join the ranks of the world's top fusion technology experts. 
In the light of this opportunity to equip Australian scientists with some of the world's leading technology, does the Government propose to take any action to respond to the offer to purchase this fusion facility and thus place Australia in the forefront of world fusion technology. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 30 May 1978: 
Has the Attorney-General's attention been drawn to the decision of the Victorian Full Court in the case of Ukley v. Ukley (1977) V.R. 121, which suggests that the old Imperial Act known as the Foreign Tribunals Evidence Act 1856, may be still in force in Australia despite its repeal in the United Kingdom. 
If so, does this Act need to be altered or repealed having regard, for example, to the Hague Convention on the 
Taking of Evidence Abroad in Civil or Commercial Matters, 1968. 
Is it a fact that the State Parliaments are legally incapable of dealing with this matter because of the colonial limitations, including the Colonial Law Validating Act 1865 which still continues to bind the exercise of their legislative powers. 
If action is needed to change this Act, will the Australian Government consider the possibility of using the external affairs powers in sub-section 5 1 (xxix) of the Constitution. 
5 ) Will he furnish a list of the other areas where the States are also legally incapable because of the colonial limitations and relics which continue to operate in Australia and place legal strictures on the exercise of States' legislative powers. 
asked the Minister for Productivity, upon notice, on 1 3 September 1 978: 
1 ) Is it a fact that the Government's allocation to Industrial Research has been reduced by 25 per cent over the last 2 years and that if inflation is taken into account the cutback in real terms is in excess of 25 per cent. 
If so, does this reduction in research and development funding conflict with the recommendation of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development that Australia should be increasing its research efforts. 
Did the Jackson Report on Manufacturing Industry in Australia emphasise the need for more industrial research to be undertaken. 
Is it also a fact that Australia ranks 17th on a list of countries in respect of indigenous companies taking out patents. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 25 October 1978: 
1 ) Have the recommendations in pan 7.8 of the Purvis Report on the Australian Motorists and General Insurance Co. Pty Ltd been given effect. If not, why not. 
Does the Government intend to introduce amendments in accordance with these recommendations. If so, when. 
Has the Insurance Commissioner determined any general principles to be observed by insurance auditors. 
Has the Insurance Commissioner specified any classes of statements or documents under paragraph 44 (3) (a) of the Insurance Acts. If so, what are they. 
5 ) Has the Insurance Commissioner issued any guidelines as to when he will be satisfied with an auditor's qualifications under sub-section 46 ( 2 ) of the Acts. 
What are the considerations which the Commissioner takes into account when approving an auditor under the provisions referred to in pan (5). 
What staff is available to the Insurance Commissioner. 
Has he sufficient staff to conduct a proper audit of all companies on a regular basis. If not, will he ensure adequate staff is immediately provided. 
9 ) Has the Insurance Commissioner issued any guidelines or information as to the assets that he is likely to approve under sub-sections 30 ( 1 ) and (2 ) of the Acts; if so, what are those guidelines. 
Have any regulations been proposed or made for the purpose of Pan IV of the Acts. 
What action has the Insurance Commissioner taken to ensure that returns and statements required to be lodged with him under the Acts are of a satisfactory standard. 
Has the Insurance Commissioner made any progress, as a result of his contacts with the National Conference of Insurance Commissioners in the USA, with his proposals for the general supervision of the insurance industry in Australia. 
Does he endorse the introduction of specific classes of investment which are permissible for insurance companies, as is the case under legislation of many states in the US and which is already the case under the laws dealing with trustees in all pans of Australia. 
In view of the concern expressed by the Purvis Report, the Corporation of Insurance Brokers, and particularly by the Insurance Commissioner's latest Annual Report concerning the inadequacies of the Insurance Acts 1973 to effectively supervise the insurance industry, and in view of the pending detailed and technical report by the Australian Law Reform Commission dealing with the law relating to insurance contracts and related matters and its probable endorsement of the need for brokers' legislation, if insurance law is to be effective to obviate fraudulent practices, will he take steps to set up a Joint Select Committee of the Parliament, to inquire into and report upon the most effective forms of insurance law to supervise, regulate and control the insurance industry in this country. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice on 25 October 1 978: 
1 ) Further to his answer to question No. 1387  (Hansard,  10 October 1978, page 1664) what are the in situ reserves of the mines in each of the following areas owned or controlled by the companies indicated: (a) Oatlands, NSW- Mitsubishi Development Pty Ltd, (b) Taroom, Qld- (i) Syncline Pty Ltd, (ii) Mines Administration Pty Ltd, (iti) Wiltull Ltd and (iv) Brigalow Mines Pty Ltd, (c) Millmerran, QldMillmerran Coal Pty Ltd and (d) Upper Hunter Valley, NSW-(i) Barix Pty Ltd, (ii) Bayswater Colliery Pty Ltd, (iti) Bloomfield Collieries Pty Ltd, (iv) Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd, (v) Buchanan Borehole Collieries Pty Ltd, (vi) Carpentaria Exploration Co. Pty Ltd, (vii) Consolidated Goldfields Australia Ltd, (viti) Constain Australia Ltd, (ix) Clutha Development Pty Ltd, (x) NSW Department of Mines, (xi) Electricity Commission of NSW, (xii) Eric Newham (Wallerawang) Pty Ltd, (xiii) Gollin Wallsend Coal Co. Ltd, (xiv) H. C. Sleigh Ltd, (xv) Hebden Collieries Pty Ltd, (xvi) J. and A. Brown and Abermain Seaham Collieries Ltd, (xvii) Maitland Main Collieries Pty Ltd, (xviii) Misubishi Development Pty Ltd, (xix) Mount Sugarloaf Collieries Pty Ltd, (xx) Muswellbrook Coal Co. Ltd, (xxi) R. W. Miller and Co. Pry Ltd, (xxii) T and G Mutual Life Society Ltd, (xxiii) the Newcastle Wallsend Coal Co. Pty Ltd, (xxiv) Thiess Brothers Pty Ltd and (xxv) the Wambo Mining Corporation Pty Ltd. 
What is the type of coal from each of these reserves. 
What is the percentage of foreign equity in each of the mines referred to in pan (I) and what are the foreign companies concerned in each case. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 16 November 1978: 
1 ) With reference to the decision of the Taxation Board of Review No. 2 in Case K44 78  Australian Tax Cases  419, it is a fact that, as a result of the decision, where a woman has been divorced and has remarried and is receiving maintenance in respect of the children of the former marriage her new husband may have his entitlement to a tax rebate for his dependent wife reduced or eliminated because maintenance payments for the children are regarded as income of the woman. 
As a result of the decision, will a woman receiving maintenance in respect of children be liable to taxation on these receipts. 
3 ) Does the Government propose any action to overcome the effects of the decision. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 21 November 1978: 
Is a special departmental committee, which includes senior Treasury and Taxation officers, examining various types of commodity taxes with a view to using the most suitable type as a taxing measure. 
Has the committee considered a consumption tax as a means of ultimately eliminating income tax. 
If so, has the committee also considered that such a tax would lead to a highly regressive taxation system in that under a scheme to tax consumption no account can be taken of a consumer's ability to pay. 
Would such a change to the tax system result in the wealthy of this country paying proportionately less tax than the poor with the wage and salary earner bearing the heaviest burden of taxation. 
Is the present basis of income tax, theoretically at least, based on the ability to pay; if so, would a change from a personal income tax system to an indirect commodity tax basis result in a complete negation of this principle. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 24 November 1978: 
Has he noted that whilst exploration programs for  oil  and gas are progressing in Western Australia, Victoria and South Australia, there is nothing being done in the Amadeus Basin, NT. 
Would new discoveries of oil and natural gas in this basin be of immense importance if they can be commercially developed. 
As private enterprise appears unable to drill, or does not have the financial resources or incentives to drill, will he take steps to ensure that Government exploration funds are spent. 
Will he also consult with South Australia and New South Wales regarding the markets that could be found for Amadeus Basin gas and oil to supplement their present supplies in the mid 1980s when both oil and gas reserves are likely to be depleted to the extent that imports must be increased if new discoveries are not made. 
I address my question to the Minister for National Development and preface it by saying that the Minister will be aware that, if salinity is not contained, ultimately it will destroy the economic viability of the River Murray basin. Further, he will appreciate that the problem can be overcome only by major construction projects and financial assistance. Is the Minister aware of the recent South Australian Salinity Control Program, which it is estimated will save $80m over the next 30 years? If so, will he make a firm financial commitment in two areas: firstly, a commitment for the whole of the proposed salinity control and drainage program and, secondly, a commitment on the level of financial assistance to be provided for a forward program of at least three years? 
-I wholeheartedly support the motion put so ably by the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating).  I say to the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  that the question of the oil pricing structure is what is at issue. From the time that commercial quantities of oil were discovered in Australia, the pricing of petroleum products has been a disaster area thanks to the incompetence of the Liberal-National Country Party. The original formula was evolved in 1969 at a time when Australian crude oil was the dearest in the world and oil companies were forced to use it. When oil prices soared in 1974 the world became more aware of the scarcity of oil reserves and Australia continued with a pricing structure designed to encourage consumption of crude oil. This structure contained anomolies which were quite inappropriate to the changed circumstances. They now need a thorough overhaul. The Prices Justification Tribunal has considered only piecemeal increases in costs in the oil industry. It assumed the historical base price for petrol as that originally determined by the South Australian Prices Commissioner prior to the establishment of the Prices Justification Tribunal. The validity of the historical base price has never been examined by the Tribunal. The South Australian Government, in conjunction with the New South Wales Government, is at present challenging the basis of the price determination by the Tribunal. This approach has been confirmed by the Australian Council of Trade Unions, the Australian Automobile Chamber of Commerce and the Australian Automobile Association. In fact, only certain segments of the oil industry are opposed to a thorough examination of costs within the industry. 
The oil companies have always tried to conceal from public scrutiny the operation of their industry. The number of anomalies in the formula for allocation of indigenous crude oil, the vast overcapitalisation in the retail side of the oil industry that has developed in the last 30 years, the cross-subsidisation of products and the use of transfer pricing to minimise taxation are all good reasons why some light ought to be shed on these matters in the public interest. What is required is a separation of the basic costs that are involved in each step of the petroleum chain. This Government has never been prepared to tackle the question. For instance, the cost of raw materials, distribution and marketing should be separately dealt with by the Prices Justification Tribunal or preferably by some independent body, as suggested by the Royal Commission on Petroleum. Unless a pricing mechanism is established to examine continually the costs at each of the separate stages of the petroleum industry a question mark will always surround the price of petroleum products. The determination of a distinct price at each step in the petroleum chain could also lead to greater competition in the oil industry. The Government will never tackle that one. 
If the companies within Australia were taking advantage of" their monopoly situation the way would be open for independents to import refined products to compete with locally refined crude in much the same way as XL Petroleum Pty Ltd originally began the petrol pricing war 10 years ago. In this way genuine competition could be introduced in place of the market monopoly situation at present. The Government can now establish a price framework which encourages competition and acts in the public interest to contain costs or it can continue the conspiracy with big business to exploit monopoly control against the interests of consumers. The establishment of a price mechanism would reveal whether the Government believes in free enterprise, as it claims, or in monopoly enterprise, which it undoubtedly supports. The 011 companies, in an attempt to preserve their non-competitive position, have consistently refused to break down costs within their industry. This Government will never tackle this problem. While the oil companies can conceal the costs they have no fear of any competitors within the industry. 
The fourth report of the Royal Commission on Petroleum produced irrefutable evidence that oil companies were overcharging on petrol to subsidise other oil products such as fuel oil. it also concluded that oil companies had behaved like dictators- certainly not benevolent ones- in their dealings with service station operators. The proprietors of company-owned service stations often have to sign contracts which in effect give total control to oil companies over every aspect of the station's operations. Often the stations have to buy petrol at a higher price than that at which nearby stations are able to sell it, although both are supplied by the same oil company. The Commission detailed a series of measures to solve the problems which the Government rejected in the interest of monopoly. As the problems failed to go away and as these industry and disadvantaged motorist groups failed to accept the Government's rhetoric as sufficient action, the Government played its next card; it called an industry conference. When the conference failed to close the gap between the oil companies and the other industry groups the Government was unable to defer the problem any further. The Government through the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  announced a package which includes four measures which, if implemented, would I must confess go some way towards terminating many of the anomalies in the industry. 
I agree; but it depends on whether the Government can withstand the extensive pressure from the oil companies which is now being mounted to oppose the measures. The four measures which the Minister has announced represent a persistent retreat by the Government on the implementation of the measures announced by the Royal Commission. 
-Oh, no, it is not. The recent inquiry into the sale and distribution of motor spirits in Tasmania has also recommended similar measures. The honourable member ought to read it. Basically the Minister's proposals, if they proceed, would end price discrimination by ensuring that the oil industry could not sell petrol at different prices to different stations. In addition, oil companies would also be excluded from directly operating service stations and they would be unable unjustly to terminate the lease of lessee dealers. This Government is not prepared to tackle that one. These measures could end some of the worst abuses in the industry over many decades. 
The oil industry is one of the most important industries in Australia and in the future, when oil supplies are likely to become extremely tight, it is clearly an industry in which inefficiency and waste ought not to be tolerated. There will be an urgent need for increased investment in secondary refining capacity and general refining capacity. This Government has dodged this issue. The oil companies will be in the best position to find this finance if they are not engaged in the counter-productive marketing war which has resulted in the present overcapitalisation of the distribution sector. 
The national interest demands that the Government take initiatives to end the wasteful and unsavoury practices which have grown in the industry. If the Government will not establish an independent agency to oversee the industry then it should at least see that genuine competition takes place within the industry. To achieve this it must, firstly, proceed with the legislative measures to end price discrimination that it announced last year and, secondly, it must enable the Prices Justification Tribunal to shed some of the much needed light on the whole spectrum of the petroleum price structure. This Government will never tackle that one. That is the linchpin of an oil pricing policy. 
What beneficial results could be expected from reforms such as these? Firstly, there could be possibly cheaper petrol as a result of a more competitive marketing system with reduced capitalisation in the retailing sector. Secondly, there could be more sensible prices of petroleum products, to improve the allocation of energy resources from an economic point of view. The Government talks of sensible fuel pricing but does, I must confess, little about it. The Minister for National Development said nothing today about what this Government intends to do to fix the structure which determines the price of oil. Thirdly, there could be a more rational allocation of crude oil and its products following the use of secondary refining. This would overcome the wasteful overproduction of, for example, fuel oil. I suggest that the Government cannot put off that dilemma for very much longer, as the Minister well knows. 
I have been talking about this matter in this place for the last 10 years. I must say, in all sincerity, that unless Government, whichever party is in office, tackles the question of the component structure which determines the price of petroleum products it will never be able to determine what the price level should be. For almost 50 years no government has been prepared to tackle that problem. The only way to tackle it,  Mr Minister,  is to take to pieces the components that make up the structure for determining the price of oil, examine them and fix the criteria. In all sincerity I must say that the Government's whole oil policy is nothing but a public relations exercise; it is a sham and it is a fraud. What the Minister and the Government have to do is to have the courage to bite the bullet. Until that happens I regret to say that consumers in this country will continue to be taken to the cleaners by the oil companies. 
-Yesterday I asked a question of the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  in relation to the salinity problem along the River Murray basin. Salinity has reached a critical level. If it is not contained it could ultimately destroy the economic viability of the river. I regret to say that the reply I received from the Minister was evasive and unsatisfactory. The honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Fitzpatrick)  and I have persisted with this issue over the last two years. I am deeply concerned at the Government's inactivity in this area. Users of the River Murray waters are sick to death of Federal and State governments passing the buck in relation to this problem. The salinity problem is now so serious that many irrigation settlements along the Murray will be lucky to survive another decade, let alone a bad drought, unless urgent action is taken. 
The increasing salinity of the River Murray is costing the nation $20m a year in lost production. To the visitor- and, I suppose, in most cases the farmer- there are very few visible signs that the river's increasing salt content is menacing. However, salinity in the river has increased by 10 per cent in the last 12 years and unless it is checked it will double by the year 2000. Our area of concern is fast spreading upstream as the salinity problems are reaching serious proportions, particularly in parts of Victoria. Just as South Australia has been to the fore in seeking political solutions to water problems it has also been in the forefront in seeking technical solutions to the problems. The recently released three volume  River Murray Salinity Control Program  outlines an integrated approach to tackling the salinity problem in South Australia. The total capital cost of the program will be about $ 15.3m, which is not a significant amount, I suggest, in view of the fact that salinity already is costing the South Australian people some $4m per annum. With increasing usage of the River Murray water, this would rise to about $ 10m per annum by the year 2000. The program is totally justifiable on economic, environmental and social grounds and is certain to be recommended in the final report of the salinity study being undertaken by the Commonwealth and the States by Maunsell and Partners. The technical program has been devised and, regrettably, lack of finance is the only real threat to the River Murray water quality. 
It is imperative that the Federal Government support South Australia's salinity program if it is to be successful in achieving its goal. It is also the responsibility of this Government to fund the program because salinity in South Australia, unlike most other water problems in the States, is due to causes outside the control of South Australia. River Murray water quality problems are affected and exacerbated by the quality of the water as it enters South Australia. I suggest to honourable members that it is a frightening fact to grasp- a little known yet devastating factthat some 800,000 tonnes of salt a year enter South Australia from upstream. As far as the sediment problem is concerned, the metropolitan Adelaide water treatment program is an important component in upgrading water quality in that State. This program has already been established and is accepted by this Government as justified. The program has been subject to careful scrutiny by the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation which stated in its 1977 report: 
There is a definite need to treat all surface waters being delivered to consumers in the Adelaide region. It is recommended that the program of constructing plants to treat such waters be continued and that it be completed within . . . 10 years. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has indicated that funding will be made available but- this is the problem- at a level which has, regrettably, yet to be determined. Although such support is appreciated in South Australia, the present hand-to-mouth nature of annual allocations under the national water resources program has serious implications for financial programming and maintaining efficiency of production. The financial requirements of South Australia under the water resources program will range from $ 17.5m in 1979-80 to at least $22.5m in 1982-83. This comprises $8.6m per annum for water treatment; $3.8m next financial year for Riverland salinity control and drainage rehabilitation, rising to $6.6m in 1982-83; and $5. lm, for rehabilitation of Riverland head works rising to $5. 3m. To meet these requirements the Commonwealth has earmarked $200m over five financial years for the national water resources program. This calculates to an average of $40m per year. Yet this year this Government has appropriated only $21m. When allowance is made for the national water resources assessment program, it is difficult to see more than about $3.5m per year becoming available to South Australia if this sum is divided on a population basis. This would represent only a fraction of South Australia's needs and would be a reduction on the level of funding that it has been receiving. 
Clearly, the Commonwealth has a duty to make available additional funds to South Australia for its water quality programs which are a national responsibility. It is also the Federal Government's duty to indicate forward commitments for ongoing projects so that State authorities can plan their water quality programs in a logical, co-ordinated and efficient way. Although the Federal Government does not have the constitutional power- I concede that it does not have it- and it cannot use the incidental powers as this would provide grounds for extensive litigation; this is not a viable option to a national solution to the problem, it does have the financial power to ensure that the problem can in fact be overcome. Failure to act on this problem will now place one of the country's most priceless natural assets at an intolerable risk, jeopardise the economy of South Australia and of the River Murray basin and face future governments with an enormous bill to pay for a problem that is worsening every day. 
The problem as I see it is that if salinity is not controlled along the entire length of the River Murray basin, the River Murray will act as a giant saline drain for South Australia. Farm and domestic water supplies will be tapped from a major pipeline system taken from Lake Victoria. Irrigation as we know it will cease, riverside growth will die or change dramatically. Ecological change will be drastic and the lower Murray will no longer be a paradise for fishermen and will not be so attractive for swimmers and the boating fraternity. That is not a science fiction doomsday message, but neither is it a joke. It is just one of the options facing South Australia in the light of the steadily increasing salinity control challenge for the lower Murray environment. I call on the Minister and the Government urgently to revise and increase financial assistance to the States- not just to South Australia- if this priceless national asset is to be saved. 
I support this Income Tax Assessment Amendment BUI. However, I do so with a deep sense of cynicism. Last March, in speaking in the Address-in-Reply debate I made the following remarks: 
Who in the community is carrying the greatest share of the income tax burden? It is certainly not the rich or the welloff .. . They are not, according to the report of the Taxation Commissioner for the last financial year, 1976-77. If we take income as a percentage of the tax return, we find that net group tax instalments by wage and salary earners and company directors totalled 60 per cent while companies paid 20 per cent . . . Trusts . . . professionals, partners, small business and property owners paid around 19 per cent tax, and witholding tax represented 1 per cent. It is obvious that wage and salary earners have practically no avenue to evade their share of the tax burden but the same cannot be said of people who are well off. 
The other thing to which I draw the attention of the House is that there was a very important report tabled in the British Parliament in the latter part of 1977. It is a disturbing report, because it clearly indicates that in Britain there is a greater and greater aggregation of wealth in fewer and fewer hands. Many of the decisions of this Government in relation to death duties, succession duties and so forth do nothing more than create that position in Australia. As long as the Government's policies in this area continue, that aggregation wil happen in this country. As a layman it seems to me to be a case of bad drafting or lack of foresight on the part of the Government or its advisers. 
One gains the impression that piecemeal legislation to protect the revenue from dividend strippers and other forms of tax dodging is never ending. Regrettably, the organisers of tax dodging schemes always seem to be one step ahead of the Commissioner of Taxation. In these days of staff ceilings this situation is inevitable; the Commissioner of Taxation simply does not have the investigators and other necessary staff available to fight tax avoidance schemes. This Government stands condemned on that ground alone; I do not condemn the Commissioner of Taxation or his staff. As a result of this Government's frugality, hundreds of millions of dollars are being lost and the Taxation Office is fighting a losing battle with one hand tied behind its back. 
Even if staff were readily available to combat these attacks on the revenue the Commissioner would still frequently lag behind in the discovery of such schemes. It would not be unusual for a scheme to remain undiscovered until, as I understand it, an assessor in the ordinary course of his duties noticed an unusual claim for a deduction in a return of income. This discovery could take place as long as 18 months or even longer after the scheme was first implemented. In these circumstances, by the time the loophole is closed by legislative action, as much as three years could have elapsed since the tax dodging arrangement was first utilised. On the other hand, if staff were readily available outside inquiries could be made constantly in professional quarters and professional journals could be examined to find out what new schemes were being sold by vendors of tax dodging arrangements. 
I feel that one answer to this problem is the strengthening of a blanket provision such as section 260. If such action were practicable, and I do not see why it would not be, the tax dodger would always have something to fear if he engaged in outlandish tax dodging arrangements. Honourable members wil possibly recall the time when section 260 had some teeth, and, even if it was not always 100 per cent effective, it still represented a substantial threat. Honourable members Will recall that in a recent speech I pointed out that over recent years section 260 had been completely denigrated by the High Court under  Sir Garfield  Barwick, and I make no apology for that statement. This has been apparent for some years but the situation has worsened in recent times. It ought to be remembered that the Chief Justice practised as a leader of the Sydney Bar and, beyond question, built up a reputation for giving final approval to tax dodging schemes submitted by solicitors - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! I remind the honourable member that it is the practice of the House not to reflect on the judiciary. 
I am not reflecting on the judiciary. All I am indicating is an established fact. 
I will observe your ruling. I want to repeat what I have said on a number of occasions in this House. The rot really set in when the High Court delivered its decision in the recent case of Slustzkin v. The Commissioner of Taxation. It reversed the decision of the New South Wales Supreme Court and decided that a dividend stripper was not taxable on a realisation of shares which related to accumulated profits. The dividend strip followed the familiar pattern of getting out profits to a shareholder in the guise of capital profit. In essence, that case differed little from cases such as the Newton, Bell, Hancock and Mayfield cases in which the High Court of the day had no difficulty in deciding that, despite the electorate facade which the taxpayers had erected around the relevant transactions, the dividend strips constituted schemes for the avoidance of tax and were caught by section 260. That provision has not been altered since it was placed in the statute book. The only change has been in the interpretation of the High Court. The High Court in Slustzkin 's case completely ignored the cases which I have mentioned, and the three judges, Barwick, Stephen and Aickin did not even go to the trouble of distinguishing between these cases in any way. 
In the technical journal  New Zealand Current Taxation  of May 1977, a contributor was most critical of the Slustzkin decision. I might add that this journal is a legal publication for taxation accountants and lawyers, is completely independent, and has no association with any government body. I propose to quote freely from the contributor's comments as they are particularly relevant to the High Court interpretation of section 260. Honourable members opposite, and particularly the Government, ought to take this into account. The writer of the article pointed out that the facts of the case clearly indicate that the whole of the exercise constituted a dividend stripping arrangement and that the Supreme Court judge in the first instance so found. Slustzkin, the taxpayer, was closely associated with one Rosenblum who was a director of the company which performed the dividend strip. The whole scheme was effected at the same time, shares were transferred, consideration paid and assets stripped by the stripping company, Cadez. Cheques were exchanged between the parties and banked simultaneously. In view of this evidence the Supreme Court judge had no hesitation in finding against the taxpayer Slustzkin. The writer of the article I have mentioned stated: 
The trial court held that there was a dividend stripping arrangement- see the 'New Zealand Current Taxation', Volume 21 No. 5, page 25. The learned Judge relied on voluminous evidence to support his view. The High Court of Australia reversed the decision. It is submitted that the reasoning in so doing cannot be sustained. 
After discussing the Privy Council decision in the case of Europa Oil (New Zealand) Limited (1976), reported in INZ LLR546, the writer refers specifically to the reliance placed on this decision by the High Court in Slustzkin 's case and went on to say, and this is particularly relevant: 
There is a basic area in both of these statements. The Europa Oil case certainly rejected the doctrine of substance but they did so in relation to deductions. In the passage quoted by Barwick in Europa Oil No. 1 Lord Wilberforce made it clear that Section 108 (the New Zealand equivalent of Section 260) allowed the Commissioner to disregard legal form. That is, the function of the section. Accordingly the learned Judges in the High Court misdirected themselves by applying the incorrect analysis of the Europa Oil No. 2 cases and for this reason Slustzkin cannot be regarded as authoritative in New Zealand. 
The writer of the article then went on to discuss the High Court's preoccupation with the doctrine of choice, that is, basically, that if any other section of the Income Tax Assessment Act gives the taxpayer a choice of action, then section 260 has no application. The writer of the article criticised the fallacy of this view when he said: 
Its conceptual basis is doubtful because it rests on an interpretation which overlooks the plain language of the Section and the purpose of it as explained in the decided cases. 
The writer went on to say: 
Slustzkin is an unsatisfactory decision. Much of the reasoning can be challenged. 
Honourable members ought to observe that extremely strong language. It is not very often that a writer in a technical or legal journal is so critical of a court decision. Very rarely does that occur. However, I submit that this time it is justified because the decision of the High Court is so diametrically opposed to all dividend stripping precedents set by the High Court in the preBarwick days. I suggest that the so-called doctrine of choice could be nullified if section 260 were amended in order to deny the High Court the right to adopt this fallacious reasoning. As a layman it seems to me that this objective could be achieved by adding to section 260 a provision to the effect that no other section in the Income Tax Assessment Act will affect the operation of section 260. The section as it stands seems clear and unequivocal and in theory will catch any taxpayer who attempts to avoid such tax. 
I appreciate that the courts are normally conservative and tend to write down blanket provisions of the type found in section 260. 1 accept that. As I understand the position, for many years the courts refused to apply section 260 if a transaction could be explained as relating to ordinary business or family dealings. In my view, this constitutes a reasonable approach to this question and sets out a basic test that a taxpayer's legal advisers must consider before they advise the taxpayer to enter into a particular scheme. It is my understanding that this test has been completely abandoned by the current High Court, which apparently takes the view that tax dodging is a virtue and is to be encouraged at all costs. This seems to be completely in conflict with the New Zealand Court and the High Court of the United Kingdom. I feel sure that judges such as Lord Denning must shudder when they read the tax decisions of the Australian High Court. Of course, that is if they bother to read them. 
Does the honourable member find that rather humorous? As I recall it, Lord Denning was the judge who wrote the Privy Council decision in the Newton case. That decision laid down principles which the Australian High Court followed for many years until the current Chief Justice presided. We ought to meditate upon that. Will the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  consider the proposition that an ordinary business or family dealing test be written into section 260, and that the question of whether a transaction is an ordinary business or family dealing be finally determined by a panel of lay persons, not judges, with the taxpayer able to provide relevant evidence not to be banned by technical rules of evidence? If a panel agrees that it is ordinary business, then all is well. Otherwise section 260 strikes it down. I consider that to be a reasonable approach. What about a short burst on permitting the courts and /or boards of review to have regard to the substance or ultimate economic effect of a transaction in determining whether it is a contract or an arrangement for the avoidance of tax contrary to section 260? I would like some comments from the other side of the House, particularly from the Minister, on that proposition. 
One notes the article in the  National Times  of the 17 June last year, by  Mr P.  P. McGuiness, headed 'How the High Court Helps Tax Dodgers'. He makes the same assertion that I have made from the start, that the Slustzkin case has legalised all the more or less shifty deals which can be cooked up. Obviously, it has. It is the natural flow on from that case. The article also refers to the proposal advanced by Professor Sawer. I raised this matter in an earlier debate, suggesting the setting up of a non-judicial tribunal to deal with tax dodgers. I suggest to the Minister that it might be much more efficient and effective to do so. I ask the Minister when amendments to section 260 are to be introduced to close the existing gap. I also ask the Minister to refer to  Mr McGuiness  or to talk to the Commissioner of Taxation so that he may consider the matter with a view to taking another Slustzkin scheme to the High Court. That is what this Government ought to do. It ought to empower the Commissioner of Taxation to do so. This might be legitimate in the light of the High Court's mistakes and misconceptions described in this excellent article. 
In conclusion, I repeat what I have said before when dealing with the estimates of the AttorneyGeneral's Department. What my old dad said to me many years ago typifies the attitude of honourable members opposite on this type of legislation. He said: 'Ralph, never let it bother you. As you go through the concourse of life you will find plenty of Sheriffs of Nottingham but very few Robin Hoods. The former they give knighthoods to and the latter they hang'. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 21 February 1979: 
1 ) Can he say what area of forest in Australia is controlled or owned by oil companies. 
Is he also able to say which oil companies are involved in forestry and what is the size and location of each of their holdings. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 13 September 1978: 
1 ) How many meetings have been held by the Australian Science and Technology Council Working Party on Landsat receiving facilities in Australia. 
Which State Governments presented submissions to this working party. 
Is he able to say which State Departments prepared or assisted in formulating the submissions from each State. 
Who were the respective State Ministers involved in any discussions which took place on this subject. 
What use will each State Government make of Landsat's data output. 
Which State Departments will make use of Landsat 's data output. 
What use does the Commonwealth Government plan to make of the data provided by Landsat. 
Which Commonwealth Departments will be analysing and using this data. 
When will the final report of the ASTEC working party on Landsat receiving facilities in Australia, be released. 
10) To whom will it be made available. 
1 1 ) If it is not to be released, what are the reasons. 
What other working party reports by AS TEC have been undertaken and (a) released and (b) not released. 
If reports have not been released, what are the reasons and what are their tides. 
14) Who determines whether or not these working party reports are to be released or classified. 
Have the terms of reference for the ASTEC working party inquiry into the Bureau of Mineral Resources been drawn up; if so, by whom. 
When will the ASTEC working party be able to begin its task of inquiring into the Bureau. 
What are the (a) names and (b) qualifications held by the ASTEC working party members inquiring into the Bureau. 
Will the report be available for perusal upon completion. 
-On this subject of the current geo-political situation, if one studies the statement of the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  one finds that quite clearly this Government has no vision. There is regrettably no infrastructure by which the Government must make meaningful and necessary assessments in the interests of this country. My attention has been drawn to an excellent address entitled 'Towards a British Role in Foreign Affairs' by Humphrey Trevelyan which states: 
An examination of our foreign policy will . . . start from the premise that British policy should serve British interests. This is not a purely selfish concept. It is a British interest, for instance, that the peace should be secure, that the strong should not gobble up the weak, that international disputes, even if they cannot be settled, should at least be talked over until the danger point is passed, that atomic weapons should not get into the hands of any country which might be tempted to use them, that the nuclear balance should be firmly maintained, that relations between the capitalist and countries should become gradually easier . . . a citizen of the United Kingdom cannot forget that he is also a citizen of the world and that this shrinking world 's interests are his own. 
To be effective our policy should of course be founded on a clear understanding of the world as it is and on an objective assessment of the balance of political, military and economic forces, not on sentimental recollections of a vanished past. 
That could well be applied to Australia in relation to the question of foreign affairs. I suggest that any debate on foreign affairs over the last decade obviously must have considered the energy equation and just how critical that is in geographic and strategic terms. Those areas obviously include the Middle East but more importantly I think they would certainly include the Persian Gulf or what the Americans refer to as the north-west quadrant. Whether we like it or not oil is now the world's residual supply of energy. The Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries is basically the residual supplier of oil. What does not come from coal, nuclear power and natural gas or whatever exotic forms of energy that emerge must come from oil or it will not come at all. Just how critical are the political, economic and strategic considerations of the 
Middle East? If one takes the Persian Gulf and the Straits of Hormuz one will find that with Iran on one side and Oman on the other it could easily be blockaded by any particular military force on either shore. The availability of crude oil for industralised nations of the free world will depend- undoubtedly it does now- on an independent, friendly Oman or Iran. Beyond question this perhaps is the most strategic waterway in the world. 
Let me again turn to the question of political considerations that must be taken into account quite apart from the economic impact of the region itself. Indeed, Saudi Arabia over the last decade, unquestionably because of its stature and policies, has played an extremely decisive role. Last year authoritative reports indicated that the Saudis were extremely concerned about the Camp David agreement. They thought that Sadat was giving up everything and getting nothing. According to Press reports of Americans close to the Saudis they were unhappy with the trend of events in their region in the Horn of Africa. Their fears so far as Iran were concerned were indeed well founded. A revolution has occurred. They are scared stiff by the Soviet attempts to dominate the Horn, particularly after the successful Soviet intervention in, for instance, Afghanistan. I share the same concern. These changes are significant. The Saudis failed to prevent significant oil price increases. They had been successful in blocking such rises over the last 2 years. The current 14.5 per cent rise was a particularly bitter pill for the United States to digest. 
The price of oil has not been increased in 18 months, while the dollar upon which the Saudi revenue is based has fallen quite markedly. The unrest in Iran which curtailed production forced the Saudis to produce at the maximum rate, thereby removing the lever they had used successfully before to forestall large increases, while the Saudis may have blocked still larger increases as well as proposals to abandon the dollar as a pricing mechanism. I think it is not unreasonable to take into account another equation in dealing with the economic and political strategies that can be used by the OPEC countries on the world economy, particularly the West. Let us just take the question of whether the oil weapon has lost its clout. Saudi Arabia had managed to keep prices frozen for 18 months but the recent events in Iran obviously changed this scenario. The industrial world's inflation rate during that period as well as the devaluation of the dollar has, in effect, brought down the price in terms of constants to about $11 a barrel compared with the official rate of $13.30. Arab States- we ought to remember this point- produce 60 per cent of OPEC oil and 39 per cent of the world's oil supply, excluding the Soviet Union or, if one likes, the communist bloc. 
In December 1976 the Saudis split the cartel by refusing to raise its price by more than 5 per cent. Sheik Yamani warned the West dramatically that the extension of the favour depended on suitable changes in Western policy in the Middle East and in relations between the developed and the developing countries. It was a sign that we ought to have taken into consideration. In terms of money and political aims only Kuwait, Libya and Saudi Arabia remain in a position of capital surplus according to the World Bank figures. This is another factor that we ought to take into consideration. Other countries have fully committed their earnings. The Arabs are divided amongst themselves on political and economic policies. This is a matter we ought to examine. The list of Arab members of OPEC reflects that division. Algeria, Iraq- Iraq seems to be getting out of the Soviet Union orbit- Kuwait, Qatar and the Emirates are closely tied in influence to Saudi Arabia. Libya, I must confess, clearly has enough money to promote trouble but has not, as I understand it, enough money to shape policies. 
Another equation to be taken into account in that assessment is that non-Arab oil in the world market is increasing. We must take this factor into consideration. Non-Arab oil members which share the overall economic interests of the Arab producers and not their specific political interests obviously are Equador, Gabon, Indonesia, Iran, Nigeria and Venezuela. The way things are going in the world of Islam and especially the way things are going in Iran, it may come to matter that the populations of Iran and Indonesia are also Moslem. Nigeria's population is half Moslem but so far it has not affected how these important producers stand on the Arab-Israeli issue; it may later. 
These non-Arab exporters produce 40 per cent of the world cartel's oil and 25 per cent of the world's oil supply. Countries outside the cartel produce 36 per cent of the world's supply of oil, almost as much as the Arabs do. They are Mexico, Norway, Britain, the United States, Canada and the Soviet Union. In future it is expected that contributions will be made from Argentina, Egypt, India and China. I stress that they might not wind up as significant exporters. That is not nearly so important as their production rate because if they fill their own needs obviously it takes the pressure off the world market. Nonetheless, the Arab producers play a crucial role. They are the trend setters. I suggest that there is no absolute guarantee that non-Arab producers will always deliver. As the head of the International Energy Agency pointed out, most people, I regret to agree, have little idea of the fragility of the global supply system. It was threatened twice last year and neither case had anything to do with politics. The first threat resulted from a fire in the Saudi Hills which eventually was contained. The second threat, which is yet to be contained, is the interruption of Iranian production. In both cases other suppliers increased their daily output. This balancing mechanism has been effective but, I regret to say, it has been delicate and critical. 
Let me turn to the question of prices. Analysts now assume that prices set by the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries will begin to rise as rapidly as inflation and more rapidly in the early 1980s. They are already commencing to do so. Sheik Yamani said, not so very long ago: 
Unless oil prices are permitted to grow gradually in real terms throughout the rest of the century another sharp price increase is inevitable by the end of the 1 980s by reason of the supply shortfall that is likely to have occurred by that time. 
What no one knows is how large the OPEC prices may get in the 1980s or how easily the West, in particular, will absorb them. Price increases now also occur in a different climate. We now have high inflation and anxiety over the long term availability of adequate energy supplies. This is a formula for economic stagnation. Any sizable price increases simply make the situation worse. Equally unclear is the political impact of a gradually tightening oil market. 
If world oil has recently been dominated by economics, price, supply and demand, some specialists now believe that political considerations could re-emerge in the 1980s. Undoubtedly they are already emerging. Industrialised countries would be placed in a very precarious position. Their well-being could be affected not only by decisions in Saudi Arabia but by a host of imponderables upon which we ought to reflect. There could be a natural disaster, an accident or a terrorist strike in the oilfields or in the narrow straits leading to the Persian Gulf. I am referring to Iran and Oman. There could be growth of Soviet presence in the region, some new twist to the Arab-Israeli conflict, a struggle for pre-eminence among Saudi Arabia, Iraq or Iran, a shift in the outlook of the elite that runs the Saudi kingdom or, and this is a very real danger to which Western officials prefer to close their eyes, a coup in Saudi Arabia and the accession to power of a radical like Libya's Gaddafi. A Gaddafi in the Arabian Peninsula is not likely to be constrained. A Saudi Gaddafi might well follow the same irrational pattern. The coming to power of such leadership in Saudi Arabia would create tremendous repercussions throughout the world. One only has to reflect on the recent crisis in Iran, which is the No. 2 OPEC producer, or imagine a crisis in some other key country in the region to come to grips with just how serious the consequences could be. 
Let me make two or three constructive observations. One of the most curious features of the past few years has been the failure of consuming countries and this Government to recognise that the inevitability of industrial change does not absolve them from the responsibility of making sure that change will be as painless as possible. There are the strongest reasons why the oil consumers should re-examine their policies on the production and use of energy and set out deliberately to make these conform more accurately with the elementary principles of economics. Perhaps what is more pertinent is the recent assessment by the International Energy Agency which pointed out: 
Energy policies are politically risky because the danger with which we are dealing is 8, 10 or 12 years away, whereas our Government - 
That is, the United States Government- faced re-election every four years. In other words the glory and reward for successful avoidance of disaster or for providing a better way of life cannot be obtained during the politically relevant period, that is before the next election. There is therefore a strong built in urge to dodge the issue. 
If the issue is dodged now, the United States and other Western countries, including our own, will pay a very severe penalty later. Here are posed, as one peers into the 1980s, issues of survival that in their own way are no less fundamental than those of the nuclear arms balance. There is nothing in the Government's foreign policy statement which gives the people of this country any comfort. As I assess it, the document is very superficial. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 16 November 1978: 
Has the Department of Education studied the Warnock Report on Special Educational Needs which was tabled in the United Kingdom Parliament in May 1978; if not, will the Minister ensure that such a study is undertaken. 
If the report has been studied, has the Government taken any initiatives arising from the report and in particular, has consideration been given to the concept of a named person to provide a point of contact for the parents of every child who has been discovered to have a disability or who is showing signs of special needs or problems. 
Is the Minister able to say whether the professionals who make an assessment of a child's health or educational problem have any responsibility to share these findings with the child 's parents, or do they have any right to withhold certain information. 
Has any consideration been given by the Government to increasing the measure of assistance made available for the education of young persons who have already left school, but who are finding employment particularly difficult to obtain because of their learning disabilities. 
What follow-up action has resulted from the conference on learning disabilities held in Canberra under the auspices of the Australian Council for Educational Research earlier this year. 
Will the Government consider specifying a portion of funds made available to teachers' colleges to improve the training and resources available to present and prospective teachers to identify and cope with learning disabilities in the classroom. 
When will the report of the Inquiry into Education and Training be tabled in Parliament and when will the recommendations of this report be acted on. 
I address a question to the Minister for National Development. Is it a fact that Esso-BHP has claimed to the stock market that the Fortescue oil field is a new field rather than an extension of the adjacent Halibut field? Will claiming Fortescue as a new field rather than an extension of the old field result in about $7 a barrel additional revenue to Esso-BHP, to the detriment of the Australian public? Are such claims by oil producers evaluated by the Minister's Department and do such evaluations rely exclusively on the data produced by the companies? If the Government does rely on company information, how can the Australian public be certain that the oil companies are not conning the Government for their own benefit? 
-A number of Government members have recently protested about proposals by State governments to reduce the amount of lead in petrol, under Australian Design Rule 27A. It is unfortunate that the same people did not speak out when the fifth report of the Royal Commission on Petroleum was released two and a half years ago. The Commission was highly critical of the lead phasedown proposals but it did provide alternatives to meet the health objectives of the States. If the recommendation of the Commission had been accepted and immediately put into effect, the present lead pollution problems might well have been less serious. Instead, the Government has done absolutely nothing about the recommendations and we are now faced with two very unsatisfactory choices. We either can accept a serious health problem in our major cities- a problem which is steadily worsening and which Government members would have us accept- or we can adopt lead phase-down measures which will cost the consumer dearly and result in extra petroleum consumption. 
The point made by the Royal Commission was that neither of these unsatisfactory choices need have been taken had the Government acted promptly. The Commission concluded that the public health objectives set under Rule 27a could be achieved at negligible cost by the deployment of other methods of phasing down lead. The most important alternative was to increase the octane rating of regular grade gasoline from 89 to 92 so that the majority of Australian vehicles could use standard grade petrol. At present an unusually high proportion of vehicles in Australia use supergrade petrol, mainly because the octane rating of standard petrol is too low for most vehicles. It is the lead added to petrol which gives it a high octane rating. 
The Commission concluded that if, over the next decade, the percentage of premium grade motor spirit could be reduced gradually from the current level of 85 per cent to 35 per cent, then lead emissions from automobiles could be maintained at 1972-73 levels without extensive refining investment. The use of lead free liquefied petroleum gas by buses, taxis, and other fleet vehicles which frequently operate in city centres where lead levels are unacceptably high would also reduce the problem. The Commission proposed to conduct a study to determine the probable and alternate cost of lead phase-down proposals, but had to rest upon preliminary assessments when its funding and terms were contracted by the Government three years ago. Those members of the Government who have now discovered the problem of lead phasedown measures might well reflect on the wisdom of that decision. They might also reflect on conclusion 1 7 of the Commission, which states: 
The poverty of the industry response to the need to evolve a minimum cost route to lead phase-down shows how dangerous it can be for government in general to be without the necessary expertise to examine proposals and independently, assess options. 
The Commission has made a deliberate study of systems of administration in Canada, United States, United Kingdom, Norway, France, Singapore and New Zealand. 
All these governments believe that they need national energy policies and that petroleum, its refining, distribution, marketing and pricing, are essential elements of that policy. 
Why Australia thinks it does not need such policies or at least acts as if it so thinks, no one has ever explained to the Commission. 
I am amazed that Government members, at long last, have found out that we have a lead phasedown problem. I am still amazed at the lack of understanding of the Royal Commission reports Nos 1, 5, and 6. The Government has closed down, if I may say so, the most important one, which is report No. 7 on transfer pricing. It is high time that the Government got the expertise necessary to manage the energy industries effectively and developed a national policy. The fiasco over lead phase-down will be repeated time and time again until that expertise is found and used effectively. 
-Whilst I support the Passports Amendment Bill and will press our amendments to it, the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  will acknowledge my persistent efforts to eliminate the high incidence of child abduction within and from Australia, and the need for urgent legislative and administrative changes to reduce it. I commend the honourable member for Kingston  (Mr Chapman)  and in particular my very good friend the Adelaide journalist, Dick Wordley, for their contribution. I note the Minister's intimation in his second reading speech that the recommendations of the interdepartmental committee which he set up in response to my earlier request are currently before the Cabinet. Therefore, I will reserve my remarks on that important matter until the legislation comes before the House. However, I intend to speak at the Committee stages in reference to clause 8 in particular. 
I deplore the Government's decision, as set out in proposed new section 7b, and its effect upon corporate crime in this country, At present passports can be withheld or withdrawn by the Minister if State corporate affairs commissions or companies offices reported that an investigation was in progress. However, under this amendment, according to the Minister, this practice will be discontinued. In explanation, he said that in recognition of the Government's policy in relation to human rights, and the view that the Passports Act should neither be an extension of the judicial system nor be expected to impose any more restraint on a person than a court would be prepared to impose, the Government decided to change the practice. As from the date of proclamation of the amending Bill, passports will be denied only where- among other reasons- a warrant exists for an applicant's arrest or the applicant is the subject of an Australian court order or parole conditions restraining him from obtaining a passport or leaving Australia. I suggest that, beyond question, corporate crime is rife and that its insidious effects are being felt throughout Australia. Over the last half decade or more $ 1,000m has been siphoned from investors in one form or another. 
Let me just cite a few cases involving individuals who have been associated with corporate crime. I refer firstly to a firm of solicitors, Murray and Moloney of Granville, Sydney.  Mr Brian  John Moloney has been associated with a deficiency of $175,000 in his trust account. He has not been seen since December 1977. He is believed to have gone overseas. In relation to M.G. Securities Australasia Ltd,  Mr Morris  Glickman is to face 20 fraud charges, covering an estimated $940,000. That is associated with an investment company and a home building company. He left for Israel in January 1978. Extradition proceedings were commenced in July 1978. In relation to All-Size Cartons Ltd,  Mr James  Thomas faces 44 charges of obtaining money through false pretences and forgery involving some $228,000. In September 1978 a London magistrate's court ordered his extradition to Australia. 
In relation to the Barton group of companies,  Mr Malcolm  Llewellyn-Dance was charged under a section of the New South Wales Companies Act with making false statements with intent to deceive. Extradition proceedings were commenced on 8 September 1976 to order his return from England. The amount involved was $1.5m. In relation to Employers Corporate Investments Pty Ltd, a director, Jack Rainsford James, has disappeared with funds amounting to three-quarters of a million dollars. The company collapsed in 1976, with deficiencies totalling $5m. It is presumed that he has gone overseas. The company was involved in the investment of superannuation funds. 
Both Thomas and Alexander Barton faced initially 28 charges of fraud and conspiracy totalling $4.5m. The prosecution alleged that this amount was unlawfully sent out of the country to Switzerland, ostensibly to buy oil leases in New Zealand, but that no money had been sent in this way at all. The collapse of the Barton group of companies involved shareholders funds amounting to $25m. Extradition proceedings were commenced in Paraguay but the Bartons returned voluntarily in January 1977. The overall estimated cost of extradition proceedings was $lm. I raised the case of Barton four days before he left the country but I could not get any action on it. I can appreciate this Government's lack of sensitivity in dealing with corporate criminals. One has to accept that fact; I accept it. Let us not have this arrant nonsense about protecting the little man. Surely honourable members opposite do not have the gall to claim that that is part of their political philosophy. 
If one looks at that summary it would seem that the old practice of the Minister witholding or withdrawing the passport of a person suspected of corporate crime might not have been exercised to its fullest extent, I regret to say. This may have been due to poor communications between corporate officers and the Minister or to a multitude of reasons which it is impossible to ascertain. A comparison of the occasions on which the Minister has withheld or withdrawn passports of persons suspected of corporate crime in the last five years with the number of extradition proceedings commenced in that time show that five passports were withdrawn or withheld as opposed to 60 extradition proceedings. It should be pointed out that all these extradition proceedings do not relate specifically to persons associated with corporate crime. The exact number is not known although it may be presumed that they comprise a substantial proportion of that number. If one analyses the information available on extradition proceedings in the case involving Thomas and Alexander Barton, as I said earlier it indicates that the cost will be in the vicinity of $lm. On a simple cost benefit analysis, the nil costs associated with the Minister's power to withdraw or withhold a passport of a suspected corporate criminal as opposed to the expensive costs of extradition and the loss of investors' money associated with corporate criminals who flee, it would seem that as a result of the proposed new practice in this Bill the Government and the Australian people are paying and will continue to pay a substantial price in the cause of human rights and civil liberties. It never fails to amaze me why society persists in looking down on blue collar crime but not so on white collar crime. 
Let me make one important observation. Directors of companies and lawyers who handle trust accounts are custodians of people's assets, whether they are in the form of shares, premiums, life policies, debentures or trust funds. I concede that a director or indeed a lawyer has an entitlement to freedom of movement. No one questions that basic tenet; I do not. However, if a thorough and detailed investigation by competent officers, be they corporate, insurance or taxation, discloses that people's- an individual's, or indeed companies' which lodge for insurance a deposit or claim- assets are in jeopardy, then I suggest that one right must be sacrificed for the other. Let me take the general insurance field of which I have at least some knowledge. I might say that it is not as simple as the Minister suggests. It is not a simple question of hiding behind the twin screens, if you like, one being used as an extension of the judicial system and the other the policy relating to human rights. In reaching a balance in justice, protection and equity, one needs a high degree of specialised knowledge of the complexities of this area, and I suggest that that speciality is not the exclusive preserve of the judiciary. 
Let me take up some very telling arguments put in the debate on the Insurance Company Bill in the House of Lords in 1973. This highlights the difference between my Party and the Government. This is what the Minister in charge of that Bill dealing with general insurance had to say. He said: 
What is so special about insurance business that it should need so much more surveillance than business of other kinds? . . . People and companies seek the protection of insurance against risks that could cripple them financially, possibly with serious repercussions upon their families and their employees . . . when the policy holder puts down his money he has to put his trust in the integrity and competence of the insurer; if this trust is misplaced his own prudence in insuring is to no avail . . . there are circumstances in which the Government must be in a position to react quickly and appropriately in order to protect the interests of policy holders, interests which may extend many years into the future.  . . 'the Government' . . . has carefully considered the arguments which have been advanced in various quarters for hiving off this responsibility to . . . specialised independent agency or to the industry itself. 
This is what the Minister in the House of Lords said: 
I do not believe that either House of Parliament would willingly see Ministers divest themselves of accountability for the protection of the public in this area . . . Provided that adequate resources are made available . . . there is no reason to suppose that a Government Department is inherently less capable of effective supervision than some other form of organisation . . . 
I want to emphasise what regrettably is little understood and that is the disastrous economic backlash on people, companies, employees and on the community when a company such as an insurance company, in particular, goes into liquidation or collapses. Despite all the best endeavours to strengthen the solvency provisions of the Insurance Act or to strengthen the surveillance procedures, powers are needed and must be held in reserve which fully protect the shareholder, the insured, whether an individual or a company, a taxpayer or, equally important, an employee. 
There should be powers to ensure that his assets are redeemable, recoverable, protected and available, and are not appropriated, stripped or syphoned off for the exclusive benefit of company directors. They belong to the individual whether they be placed by an individual or a company. Those assets are inviolable. What right has any director to use those assets other than in the interests of the shareholder? He loses that right the moment he attempts to embark upon fraudulent misrepresentation or misappropriation. Let me deal with the collapse in Britain of Vehicle and General Insurance and its effect in Australia. That collapse involved an amount of $56.3m. It occurred because the inspecting officers in the responsible department did not carry out the inspection procedures which should have been done. That sort of thing cannot be tolerated. It cannot be left to the judiciary, I suggest. It requires action between departmental officers and the Minister. If I may turn to the collapse of VIP Insurances Ltd - 
Yes, it is fair criticism. I raised the question of the collapse of VIP Insurances. I put it to the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  that following the collapse of VIP in which  Mr Makler  syphoned off $2m, he left 60,000 policy holders without coverage. I asked the Treasurer, to safeguard the interests of policy holders, shareholders and creditors in the future, whether he would take appropriate action to prevent directors or other officers of companies leaving Australia when such action is recommended as a result of inquiries by either corporate or insurance affairs commissioners. At that time I alleged that it was highly probable that the VIP company was involved in the transfer of reinsurance funds outside Australia and I asked the Treasurer whether he would take immediate steps through the Reserve Bank to block the loopholes. I do not think that was the case with VIP but it may well have been the case. 
It is quite obvious to me that the Government or the responsible Minister is unaware of the detailed procedures set down in the Insurance Act of 1975. When we have reached the conclusions which the Government has, we ought to study it. Under the Act there is a provision whereby the Insurance Commissioner can, if he thinks that an authorised insurance company is unlikely to meet its commitments, serve notice on the company - 
-Yes. The Bill before the House is dealing with the question of withholding or the issuing of passports and the matter that is very important to me is the question of what we are going to do about corporate criminals. I am arguing for the status quo and suggesting that the amendment in the Bill ought not to be carried. I forgive you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  if someone does not understand the Bill, but I rather assume that I do. 
Under the Act, there is a provision whereby the Insurance Commissioner can, if he thinks that an authorised insurance company is unlikely to meet its commitments, serve notice on the company that it provide him with certain specified information within not less than 7 days. In addition, the Commissioner can direct that a specified asset or assets be not disposed of or removed from Australia. If, after receiving the required information, the Commissioner considers the company's position to be unsatisfactory, he can ask it to show cause why an inspector should be appointed to investigate it. If the company fails to show cause, the Treasurer can appoint an inspector. 
These procedures are designed to be utterly fair to a company, its officers and staff. However, in consequence of this fairness, a person who is connected with a company affected in the way I have outlined and who thinks that he has committed some criminal act would have adequate warning to remove himself beyond the reach of the law before a full investigation could be carried out and criminal charges laid. As things stand, the Minister for Foreign Affairs could be approached by the Treasurer and asked to exercise his discretion and to withdraw a suspected person's passport at a fairly early stage of proceedings, say when the Commissioner asked for information or when the company was asked to show cause why an inspector should not be appointed. The Commissioner would not advise the Treasurer to seek implementation of the procedures except as a last resort. In this type of situation there may be very grave suspicions that a person has committed a criminal offence but, as often happens, there may not yet be sufficient evidence to convince a jury of the person's guilt. 
If the Act is changed as proposed by this legislation, a person who has acted illegally would have very adequate warning of any charges which might be brought against him and would be able to leave the country before sufficient evidence was gathered by an inspector to permit a prosecution to be mounted. That is the important aspect of the proposed change to the Act. As I see it, a judge would not withdraw a person's passport unless a very thorough investigation had been carried out. In other words, there would need to be a prima facie case made out for a person to answer criminal charges and, in the type of situation that I have outlined, I doubt very much that there would be enough time to bring charges before the person could leave the country. That is what happened, I suggest, in relation to VIP. It has happened with a lot of insurance companies, regrettably, throughout the years. I think that the Government ought to understand that when we are dealing with an insurance company we are dealing with a set of circumstances different from those which apply to other companies. If a company collapses on the stock exchange its downstream effect is not so dramatic. But an inspector appointed under the Insurance Commissioner has to be very sure that an examination of a company is held in camera. Nothing will destroy an insurance company more quickly than an indication that it is on the way to liquidation or insolvency. There are involved in this area factors which are vastly different from those in the corporate area or taxation area. 
The point I make is that even greater responsibility rests on the Government in cases where people put their trust in an insurance company to cover themselves for a contingency. If that insurance company goes into liquidation, more often then not in Australia, regrettably- there is no trust to underpin such a company- that person carries his own liability. There is no way out of that situation.  His  whole business and his whole life can be destroyed. What I am putting quite simply is that there are circumstances involved at which the Minister and the Government ought to look seriously. I am arguing sincerely that under no consideration should we allow the situation which is proposed in this Bill. After the Minister has received a report from the Treasurer, the withholding of a passport or the refusal to issue a passport should not be conditional on the requirement of a judicial warrant. It may not be expedient or it may not be right to commence court proceedings against an insurance company- that is, a director of an insurance company- for obvious reasons. What I am suggesting to the Government is that it ought to maintain the status quo, because I think in the prevailing circumstances it is more efficient and more effective. 
I support the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Bowen).  Firstly, I will deal with clause 8 which deals with the question of passports for minors. I agree with the honourable member that the question is complicated. Much child abduction in Australia can be traced to the parents having dual nationalities and acting in defiance of custodial orders. I feel that this area could be dealt with expeditiously in the Family Court of Australia. Where there is an application for a custodial order the Family Court judges have the power to call for passports and impound them until such time as the court determines which parent will have the custody of the child. The issue on whose passport the child should be cited could then be determined by the court and notified to the Department of Foreign Affairs in the respective State. This question needs legislation both in relation to this Bill and the Family Law Act. I trust that the interdepartmental committee will consider it. I made a submission upon it. 
In support of my colleague I return to the question of corporate crime and the judicial process of warrants. I ask the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar):  If he is concerned about human rights and civil liberties- I confess that it is an area that has never bothered me- how many people have really suffered? How many passports have preceding Ministers withheld or refused to issue? Did they consider that this infringed human rights? Where has any company director subject to investigation by either a corporate affairs commission, an insurance office or the Taxation Office, had his civil rights infringed? I challenge the Minister to show where that has happened. I turn to the question of trust of the judiciary. We seem to have a propensity in this country to trust the judiciary in everything. There is an excellent book which I commend to honourable members, by Trevor Sykes called  Money Mines.  I will quote from it because it highlights this question. 
Those to police the corporate area have also encountered obstacles in the interpretation of law in the courts. The most notable instance of this was the judgment handed down by the . . . Justice of the New South Wales Supreme Court,  Mr Justice  Taylor, in the case of the Crown versus McMahon, Nestel and others.  . . directors of Mineral Securities were charged with having published a false statement when they announced a profit of more than $3.5m for the 1970-71 half year. It will be remembered that this profit statement was withdrawn following advice from . . . Q.C., because it contained a $7m profit on the Robe River transfer. ... 10 days after announcing its profit, Minsec retracted the statement and announced a $3.3m loss. The Minsec directors were charged with breaches of Section 176 of the Crimes Act (publishing a false statement of profit) . . . 
The important point to remember is this: 
After a long trial,  Mr Justice  Taylor ordered the jury to find the directors not guilty. One of his main reasons was that the Crown had not established the true profit of the Minsec group for the period. 

 His Honour's judgment could be reduced to the proposition that a charge of announcing a false profit cannot succeed unless the prosecution can establish what the true profit was. This may seem a reasonable proposition to a layman, but in practice it is impossible. The profit of a company is the end product of a number of assumptions made when preparing the balance sheet. A variation in any one of a number of items will produce a variation in the profit. 
Depreciation rates can be varied, assets can be revalued, the estimate of likely bad debts can go up or down, or a host of other assumptions can be made . . . 

 Mr Justice Taylor's judgment established a precedent which was soon followed by  Mr Berman,  S.M. 
This is important:   in a committal hearing in which Alexander and Thomas Barton were charged with publishing a false profit statement for Brins Australia Ltd in the half-year to December 1970.  Mr Berman  dismissed the charges on the same grounds as laid down by  Mr Justice  Taylor. 
A more subtle enemy than the state of the law is the state of mind sometimes displayed by judges and magistrates. The bench has an occasional tendency to be more deferential to a company director or stockbroker who has landed in the dock, although the charges may relate to defalcations involving large sums.  Mr Justice  Gillard, sentencing Cornelius after the Barewa case . . . described Cornelius as an intelligent, ambitious and successful businessman who had brought financial ruin upon himself.  Mr Justice  Gillard said he had little sympathy for the victims of the conspiracy, who were speculators in the mining boom. 'Most were advised by brokers, who must have seen the emptiness in the prospectus and the grave risk their clients were taking,' . . . 'The victims were seeking the same benefit as you and equally relying on the greed and stupidity of a speculating public'. In the business world Cornelius lived in, his conduct had been no different to that of many other people. 

 Mr Justice Gillard said he had been tempted to impose a non-custodial sentence upon Cornelius until he had learned that Cornelius and another man had plotted to steal about 400 exhibits . . . from the offices of the Crown Law Department. 
Now this is not a typical assessment by the judge, but nonetheless it needs to be taken into account if we are to rely on the judiciary in complex matters such as corporate defalcation. It is another instance, I suggest, where, in these sorts of matters- corporate law, insurance law or taxation- I would have more faith in company inspectors and their reports to the Minister than I would in the judiciary. But I suppose that members of the judiciary act on the old dictum: 
You are guilty until proven rich.' I strongly suggest that the Minister again takes into consideration the argument that in this area the status quo should remain. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 7 March 1979: 
1 ) In view of the quantum of sophisticated weaponry that is held by a number of Middle East countries and the importance to collate information relating to military technology and expertise, does Australia rely on advice from the United States of America and the United Kingdom on military equipment and weaponry because it has not one military attache to Australian diplomatic posts stationed throughout the Middle East. 
In Australia's interests will he take immediate steps to appoint sufficient military attaches to Australia's diplomatic posts in the area. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 21 February 1979: 
What evidence does he have to support his claim in answer to question No. 2545  (Hansard,  15 November 1978, page 2878) that the Singapore refinery project will have no significant effect on Australia 's refining self-sufficiency. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 22 February 1979: 
Can he say what copper deposits in Australia are owned, in whole or in part, by oil companies. 
If so, (a) where are these deposits, (b) when was the interest purchased, (c) how large are the deposits, (d) what are the companies involved and (e) what is the size of their shareholding. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 22 March 1979: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to a report in the  Financial Times  of 2 March 1979 that the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development has drawn up a code aimed at curbing the use of transfer pricing by multinational companies to reduce their tax liabilities; if so, does the code exist. 
) Did Australia contribute in any way to the preparation of this code; if so, what was the contribution. 
What is Australia's attitude to this code, and what effect will these recommendations have on multinational corporations operating in Australia. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 29 March 1979: 
In view of (a) the importance to the Australian economy of the insurance industry, (b) the regrettable need to strengthen the existing solvency provisions of the Insurance Act and (c) his intimation of forthcoming amendments to the Act to protect policyholders, will he give urgent consideration to ensuring that the proposed legislation will include provision for (i) indemnity or other assistance to policyholders similar to that contained in the provisions of the Policyholders Protection Act 1975 of the United Kingdom which provides for payment of 90 per cent of the amount of any liability of a company in liquidation towards UK policyholders, (ii) the imposition of levies on the insurance industry for the purpose of financing this protection, (iii) the establishment under his guidance, subject to the affirmative resolution of the Parliament, of a Policyholders Protection Board, whose functions would include (A) taking measures for indemnifying or otherwise assisting policyholders and others who have been or may be prejudiced by the inability of insurance companies carrying on business in Australia to meet their liabilities and (b) financing expenditure on the performance of their functions by the imposition of levies on these insurance companies and (iv) the regulation of intermediaries, ie, insurance brokers and insurance agents. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 1 March 1979: 
1 ) When was the joint Government Advisory Committee on Adelaide's Airline Requirements established. 
) Who are the  chairman  and members of the Committee and which body does each represent. 
Has the Committee completed its inquiries; if so, did it call for public submissions. 
Where has it deliberated and when. 
Did his Depanment make a submission to the Committee; if so, what was the substance of the submission. 
Did his Department submit that (a) Adelaide should become an international airport; if so, when should this take place, (b) a master plan for the airport should be drawn up, (c) reserves should be made of areas adjacent to the airport to protect the public from noise intrusion, (d) areas at Aldinga should be obtained for a general aviation airport and at Two Wells/Virginia to establish a major airport, (e) international air services of limited range to, for example, Singapore, Fiji and New Zealand could be developed from the existing or expanded Adelaide airport and (f) urgent action should be taken to secure land at Aldinga and Two Wells/Virginia. 
When will the Committee's report be made public. 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Attorney-General. The question relates to the VIP Insurances Ltd collapse. 
Whilst I support the Bill, I equally support the constructive amendments put by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  Might I say that the opening remarks by the honourable member for Kingston  (Mr Chapman)  directed against the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition were unnecessary, unwarranted and deplorable. It is high time that the horror of the Australian people at the illicit traffic in heroin and other illegal drugs is expressed in terms of the penalties proposed in this Bill. It is well known that Australian young people, with their love of freedom and pleasure, their relative affluence and, in many cases, their boredom and frustration produced by lack of work, lack of goals and, if I may say so, lack of leadership, are the targets for the commercial trade in heroin and other drugs grown and manufactured in South East Asia. The incredible thing to me has been the fact that in many countries in which these illicit drugs originate the penalties for trafficking in them in a commercial way is death by hanging or firing squad or life imprisonment in a dark and dingy gaol from which one is lucky eventually to emerge alive. Treatment for addicts of these drugs, such as heroin, usually consists of locking them up and almost forgetting them. Yet in Australia, only a few hours flying time from these southern Asian countries, which is the market place for illicit drugs and where huge fortunes have been made from their sale, much greater than the profits to be made in the country of origin, we are dithering about with fines of up to $100,000 maximum or gaol sentences of 25 years or so in a civilised gaol with all mod cons and with time off for good behaviour. Sometimes, unbelievably, the sentences have been suspended or bonds of good behaviour imposed. 
When one looks at the profits to be made as opposed to any punishment, one may suspect that it would seem logical for anyone with money to invest in business to choose drug trafficking as the business with the highest possible profit for the least amount of risk. Usually the level of money available to anyone who wants to go into this dirty business is so high that, if one is caught, particularly in the Asian countries, it is an easy matter to buy oneself out of gaol with a few well placed bribes. During all this time the number of young people in Australia who are attracted into experimenting with heroin, and then swelling the ranks of the addicted, is growing. No one knows how many young heroin addicts exist in this country. It has been estimated that there are anywhere from 40,000 to 100,000 of these unfortunate young people. Added to this number, whatever it is exactly, must be many times that number who are on the fringes regrettably, of addiction. They are flirting with heroin, tasting it and saying to themselves: 'I can control it; I am only a social user; addiction cannot happen to me'. 
I have seen too many of these people in mental institutions over the last 20 years. How wrong many of these young people are is illustrated by the apparent growth in the number of addicts as indicated by the growth of the number of young people presenting themselves for treatment at treatment centres to overcome their addiction. I believe, from my research and from experts I know who have watched the growth of the heroin scene in Australia since 1968, that there has been a major escalation in commercial marketing of heroin in Australia since 1977. The products of this growth are now clamouring for treatment at centres seeking help. 
When I said I know experts who have watched this situation since 1968, I meant people who have been actively involved in investigation, detection and prevention of leakages of narcotic drugs from the legal channels, medical channels, to the black market. Others in the police forces have tried to track down sources of supply, bring addicts before the courts and have them committed for treatment. Others have been involved in treatment and preventive education. The sad thing is that no matter how much effort is expended by people such as these, nothing seems to have worked to stem the irresistible tide of addiction to narcotics. On many occasions police work is finally frustrated when some magistrate, dispensing humanity to the offender, suspends a sentence, or gives a light fine when the maximum penalty should have been imposed. To my knowledge, nowhere in Australia, ever, have the maximum penalties available to the courts been imposed. One must ask, therefore, what assurance is there that the courts will now take any heed of Parliament's attitude when the currently proposed penalties are brought into the force of law. Will the courts impose maximum life sentences, or will they go only half way? I fear the latter. I believe the Australian people are not ignorant of what has happened to our youth, in many areas, over the last few years. I believe they have been quietly looking for heavier penalties for drug trafficking for some time, and I therefore commend the Government for paying heed to these sentiments by means of the proposed Bill. 
There is another thing to be considered. Assuming that the new measures of surveillance by phone tapping and heavier court penalties can be successfully put into practice and traffickers can be apprehended and sentenced, subject to the proposed amendment that we will outline later, we ought to consider the results. They will not be entirely to the betterment of the community, might I suggest. Several things will happen obviously. Firstly, the price of heroin will escalate. Secondly, this will bring increased crime in the form of theft in order to pay for the cost of each addict's habit. More addicts will also turn to 'pushing'. Thirdly, it will bring more holdups of chemists, more burglaries of doctors' surgeries and more forgeries of prescriptions. Fourthly, there will be periodic droughts of heroin when a trafficker is caught. This will bring more addicts to the treatment centres pleading to be relieved of their withdrawal. It will mean a greater strain on our already slender treatment resources. 
I am not saying that these effects are sufficient reason for us not to proceed with these penalties; we must proceed. But we must be prepared for the results of any enforcement activity. We must plan for the effects and we ought to provide for them. Drug addiction is a multi-factional social problem. It will never be controlled by a single strategy such as law enforcement. We ought to attack it from as many sides as possible. I suggest to the honourable member for Kingston that at present the health services of the States are being starved by this Government of vital financial resources to do this very thing. Equally, I believe, the State police departments and education departments are being starved of funds. 
I wish to speak primarily now about the State health services in my own State, South Australia. In the present economic climate effective work in the area of the presentation and detection of drug dependence of all types, but especially the narcotic type, is being hampered by lack of finance and personnel. Already a major source of narcotics for the black market is the local doctor's surgery where young people con prescriptions for a variety of drugs which they use as substitutes for heroin and sometimes together with heroin. The only way to stop this practice is for the State health personnel to have the resources to monitor the prescribing of narcotic drugs by doctors and to discipline those doctors who are found to be feeding the black market. The same applies in the areas of diversion from pharmacies, wholesale pharmaceutical suppliers and the like. 
In Tasmania, for example, a doctor's prescribing is watched under a computerised system. In my own State, South Australia, a very thorough system of surveillance of prescribing has had to be abandoned recently because of lack of staff and lack of funding by the Federal Government. There is now almost no knowledge of the amount of narcotics and other drugs diverted to the black market through doctors ' prescriptions, but it is known that the drugs so obtained are taken not only by the person who obtains the prescription; a large amount is also sold to other addicts. I regret to say that this is one important, largely neglected and ignored way in which the problem of narcotic addiction is being spread throughout this country and, through lack of staff, the State health services are unable to control it. 
I believe that a similar state of affairs exists in the areas of education against drug abuse or the provision of alternatives to drugs by the encouragement of more sporting activity and provision of facilities for young people, to say nothing of the provision of more jobs. I believe that the same situation exists in the area of treatment. While on the one hand we know that the number of addicts is increasing in Australia many States are finding that they have to curtail their treatment facilities because of lack of staff, facilities and ability to carry out research into new methods of treatment of addiction. The problem is multifactional. This last aspect is of vital urgency since it is recognised that the current methods of treatment just do not work. If we are seriously concerned about what is happening to young people in this country we must look for effective methods of treatment as well as methods of prevention such as the locking up of drug traffickers. The irony of the situation is that the more effective are the measures proposed in the current Bill the more pressure will be exerted upon those community activities which I have mentioned which also attack the problem at which this Bill is directed. These other community responses, regrettably, will be rendered ineffective. 
The honourable member for Kingston talked about what the Government is doing; we ought to look at what the Government is not doing. The regrettable fact is that it is cutting down vital financial resources to the States. Without those resources the problem cannot be overcome. The more effective are the police and customs officers the less effective will be education and treatment and control of diversion from doctors, chemists and pharmaceutical wholesalers. The total effect may be that nothing is achieved unless these other community responses are also strengthened at the same time. The tragedy may be that the Parliament, having passed the Bill, may feel that it has done enough and that it can rely on enforcement to protect our young people. It may feel that in heavy penalties for trafficking it has found a cheap substitute for treatment and education. Nothing could be further from the truth. We would be deluding ourselves and, shamefully, the people we claim to represent. I appeal to the Government, if it is sincere in its attack on drug addiction in this country, to make funds available to the States for other work in the drug area. Provided such work is strictly controlled and evaluated for effectiveness the money will be well spent. Certainly there is no cheap way out for the community in its battle with the problem of drug abuse and in particular the abuse of such dangerous drugs as heroin and the other narcotics. 
The answer to the drug problem, if there is one, rests not only in imposing very heavy penalties as a deterrent- that is not the one and only answer- we must also recognise that the taking of illicit drugs, however, we may view it as a way of life, gives some sense of pleasure, satisfaction and fulfilment to the people who take them. It gives these people a sense of identity and purpose in life which is lacking for them in the normal pursuits of the rest of the community. We ought to acknowledge that fact. It may give them some temporary escape from the tensions, frustrations and boredoms of a culture which is not currently giving the opportunity to these people to achieve their fullest potential in the Australian society. It follows therefore that if we wish to prevent our young people from immersing themselves in the dead-end satisfactions and pleasures of drugs we must compete, as a community, with the rewards, thrills and pleasures of drug taking. Our society must develop the capability of delivering to our youth a lifestyle which is more attractive, rewarding and meaningful than illicit drug taking. This means that the Government must fund to a much greater extent than now the sporting, educational, cultural and spiritual activities of the country. 
We need to foster and acknowledge at the level of local government, for instance, a wide range of all those activities which contribute to physical, mental and social development, particularly of our young people. We need to develop in our community a sense of national identity, direction and purpose. We are lacking that at the moment. Obviously this will cost money, but if it is well done it will be money saved since a community in which people are able to realise and develop their full potentialwhether physically, mentally or socially- will be a healthy community where the costs of repairing the self-damage to health by people will be greatly reduced. Certainly the money will be well spent if it is able to entice our young people away from wasting their lives in destructive drug abuse. 

 Mr CHAPMAN (Kingston)  -Mr Deputy Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 18 October 1978: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the report tabled in December 1976 by the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence entitled 'The Lebanon crisis- Humanitarian aspects' in which the Committee made a number of recommendations regarding the broadcasting of inflammatory commentary by community access stations in Australia, including the need for satisfactory monitoring procedures. 
What monitoring at an official level is carried out in regard to 3CR Melbourne. 
Has his attention been drawn to any transcripts resulting from official monitoring of 3CR. 
Is 3CR meeting the guidelines set by the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 27 March 1979: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to figures published in the United Kingdom in 1978 which showed that private investors cut their holdings in company securities by 575 million pounds in 1977. 
Does he have figures for Australia which would show any change in the number of Australians investing in shares. 
-My grievance today concerns whether this Government really believes in market forces, competition and free enterprise or whether, by its economic and legislative policies, it creates and sustains monopoly enterprises. Beyond question the latter is the case. Let me give a clear example. As far back as 1958 Dow Chemical (Australia) Ltd was approached by the South Australian Government in an endeavour to establish an alkali plant producing caustic soda, chlorine and other chemicals. At that time the proposal was given encouragement by the Commonwealth Government. However, considerable sensitivity applied to this situation as it challenged a market situation held by ICI Australia Ltd which was the only producer of caustic soda in Australia. After more than 20 years no other company, including the Dow company, has been able to break the monopoly of ICI in the manufacture of caustic soda and chlorine in Australia. 
Presently Australia imports about 800,000 tonnes of liquid caustic soda and produces about 130,000 tonnes itself. A substantial disparity exists between the Australian and overseas prices and such a disparity places a heavy burden on the cost structure of Australian user industries which have to compete with imports from countries where prices are much lower than in Australia. In addition to the high pricing of locally produced caustic soda, high tariffs apply to imports necessary to make up shortfalls in local production for domestic use. Such tariffs result in price premiums that magnify the burden on consumers and accentuate their reluctance to manufacture locally the many chemicals which lower priced caustic soda would make possible. 
At the time the Dow company was first approached there was a tariff of 95 per cent ad valorem applying to imports of caustic soda. Because ICI in the United Kingdom was the only appreciable manufacturer of caustic soda and soda ash and because ICI Australia Ltd was the only Australian manufacturer, ICI clearly held a monopoly situation. ICI Australia Ltd was importing caustic soda into Australia from its parent company in the United Kingdom at a free on board price considerably higher than that charged to its consumers in the United Kingdom. Tariff Board reports at that time showed that whilst ICI Australia Ltd gave evidence to show that there was capacity in its plant to provide for domestic requirements, it was likely that a careful examination of cost and selling prices might show that under economically efficient conditions there was a market available to a more efficient producer. But the ICI monopoly has prevailed to the detriment of the Australian consumer, particularly the Australian aluminium industry. 
Over the next five years investment in Australia's aluminium industry is likely to be of the order of $3,000m, notably in smelting in Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria and Western Australia and in alumina in Queensland and Western Australia. These developments are dramatic and not the least of their consequences will be the large demand for alkali that they will generate in addition to the substantial duty free imports of alkali for the alumina that is being exported from the plants now producing in Queensland and in the Northern Territory. The move by the Dow company to establish an alkali and chlorine industry in Redcliff in South Australia to produce caustic soda and chlorine electrolytically from salt was seen by ICI as a definite threat to its monoply. ICI was successful in opposing Dow's move by announcing its own Redcliff project. The ICI project tied up the use of raw materials required by Dow, thus ensuring that Dow would be unable to proceed. After ICI began its detailed studies on Redcliff it became clear that its intention was not to establish a major petrochemical industry in South Australia but to avert any major competitor entering the chlorine and caustic soda market in this country; in other words, to retain its monopoly in the manufacture of these basic chemicals. 
Other large American companies, including the Monsanto, Union Carbide, and American Cyanamide companies, have moved into Australia. However, these companies have introduced special chemical products rather than the basic chemicals- chlorine and caustic sodawhich were the province of ICI and, therefore, have created much less concern to ICI as a threat to its privileged position. The setting up in Australia of a second world manufacturer of basic chemicals would not only break the monopoly of ICI but would also mean that the Australian industry would benefit greatly from competitive sales. It would also mean a significant reduction in the imports of chemicals. There is no question that ICI would fight tooth and nail to prevent another chlorine and caustic soda manufacturer establishing itself in this country. 
Influences in business and industry are strong, as are influences in politics, particularly on the other side of the House. The composition of boards of companies involved in oil and gas production and distribution, in salt production, in banking and in materials supplies needs to be studied, as they can all put up various forms of shutters to a new resource activity when their associations with ICI are threatened. The announcement by ICI in February of this year that it would expand its operations in New South Wales and build a new $500m complex at Point Wilson in Victoria was unquestionably made to coincide with the announcement of the Victorian State elections. The ICI announcement could well have been expected, considering that the managing director of ICI is the brother of the Victorian Premier who needed and still needs all the help he can get to maintain government. On the known facts the ICI expansion at Point Wilson could prove to be nothing more than a political stunt to knock the Dow company out of the petrochemical race. That is its clear intention. 
Furthermore, from the lack of support given by the Federal Government to Dow's Redcliff project, as compared with the support given to ICI's Point Wilson project, one can assume only that this Government wants to ensure a monopoly by ICI in Australia's petrochemical industry. Detailed comparisons between ICI's Point Wilson project and Dow's Redcliff project show that the Redcliff project's beneficial effect on the nation's balance of payments is probably twice that of Point Wilson. It is estimated that the annual balance of trade surplus from the Redcliff project would run at $22 lm a year on present values compared with only $82m to $134m for the ICI Point Wilson project. Redcliff would also employ more people during and after its construction as well as enabling the Cooper Basin natural gas fields to be completely exploited. Undoubtedly the Redcliff project would be the more viable of the two and would have many extra benefits for Australia than the Point Wilson project. 
Yet by supporting ICI this Government has ensured that that company maintains its monopoly over the petrochemical industry in Australia. ICI has held that monopoly in this country since 1939, when it was first established in Australia, and it will continue to do so until anti-monopoly legislation is introduced in this Parliament. I regret to say that such legislation will never be introduced so long as the Tories sit on the treasury bench opposite. The Government must either establish a price framework which encourages competition and which acts in the public interest to contain costs, or continue, as it has done for as long as I have been a member of this place, the conspiracy with big business to exploit monopoly control against the interests of consumers. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 22 November 1978: 
1 ) Does the Government keep under review the Trade Practices Act in so far as it affects small business. 
Has he received any complaints from small businesses concerning the operation of section 49 of the Trade Practices Act and action taken by the Trade Practices Commission in relation to it; if so, what is the nature of the complaints. 
In particular, has he received complaints that small businesses are not able to receive the benefit of wholesale prices structures which are available to corporate chain groups, and that this is contrary to section 49 of the Trade Practices Act. 
ls it a fact that there are numerous instances which have occurred, and are constantly occurring, of a loaded advantage of over SO per cent to warehouses selling direct to the public. 
Does the Trade Practices Commission dismiss the realities of the problem by using the wording of the Trade Practices Act that the occurrences are not of such magnitude or of a recurring character as would substantially lessen competition in the market place; if so, is the Commission failing to recognise that thousands of individual small shops are being forced to close down throughout Australia by these unfair and discriminatory wholesale pricing policies. 
Is it the intention of the Government and the Trade Practices Commission to wait until the majority of small retail businesses have been forced to close before consideration will be given to the recurring character and magnitude of these unfair and discriminatory trading practices. 
In view of the escalating level of liquidation and bankruptcy amongst small retail businesses, will he give urgent consideration to a reference to the Trade Practices Commission, or to some other body, to inquire into and report to the Parliament on the level, degree and reasons for the high degree of liquidation and bankruptcy in this area and whether the reasons are related to the issues raised in this question. 
I refer to the Treasurer's recent statement that at least $ 1.4m has been lost to revenue through tax avoidance. I refer also to the enormous losses incurred by policy holders and shareholders in collapsed financial institutions such as VIP Insurances Ltd, Associated Securities Ltd and the troubled Finance Corporation of Australia Ltd. Is the Treasurer aware of claims in the VIP Insurances liquidator's report and other liquidators' reports that more than the present level of 50 staff is needed to protect policy holders in more than 200 companies? Further, is he aware that the Taxation Office staff is being forced to take short cuts in assessments because there is insufficient staff to handle the work load? If the Treasurer is serious about reducing the appalling level of tax avoidance and financial institution collapses, when will he take steps to lift staff ceilings so that this can be done? Finally, for how much longer will he fiddle with the petty cash while corporate incompetency and corporate criminals continue to plunder the bank vault? 
-In speaking to these Supply Bills, I attack the Government for its lack of an energy policy. The world energy outlook is an enormously complex issue, which, regrettably, is being compounded day by day. The complexity is due to a combination of" technical, political, environmental and economic uncertainties. 
The recent situation in Iran illustrates just how fragile are the assumptions upon which energy projections are based. The political crisis in Iran led to a cessation in oil supplies from a nation which last year produced 10 per cent of the world's oil supply. The subsequent shortages have pushed up oil prices, changing the whole economic base on which energy resource decisions are made. Just yesterday, Algeria put up the price of its best light crude oil to $2 1 a barrel. Prior to late 1973, in this country best light crude oil was a little over $2 a barrel. There are technical limits to the outputs of some oil producers. Countries such as Saudi Arabia are reluctant, for political as well as economic reasons, to increase their output to offset the loss of Iranian oil production. In addition, oil is a seasonal product with peak demand in the northern winter- an extra complication in making accurate projections, particularly in Canada and the United States. 
The crisis in Iran has inevitably affected decisions about other energy resources such as coal and uranium. The United States, Japan and Western Europe are now likely to expand their coal programs to reduce dependence on oil more quickly than would have been expected before the crisis. 
Yes, I think they might. While the crisis in Iran graphically shows some of the hazards in predicting the energy outlook, there are other complexities which could affect the situation. The degree of co-operation that can be achieved between all countries in tackling energy problems will decide how successful we are in solving energy supply problems. Australia, for example, is a country short of oil but relatively well off in other energy resources. Other countries have their own particular needs, advantages or problems. Oil supplies will depend on how successfully and quickly the world can change to alternative sources of energy, limited of course by the fact that at this stage there is virtually no alternative to liquid hydrocarbons for private transport. Breakthroughs in technology will change the energy supply equation in years to come. Success in finding a cheap coal to oil conversion process, greater recovery of oil from existing reserves- at the moment we get only about 25 per cent- and improvements in deep sea and polar exploration are some key areas where technological developments could decide whether we find sufficient oil supplies to last to the end of the century. 
The world energy equation depends on a multitude of factors outside the control of any one country, including Australia. Within the next decade world oil supplies will fall behind demand and this is likely to remain the case for some time, if not indefinitely. In Australia we have to design energy policies in the context of the world situation and with the constitutional limitations of the Australian Government well in mind. I suggest that our ability as a small nation to compete with the European Economic Community, Japan and the United States for oil when supplies are tight is questionable. The Government needs to give serious consideration to this problem. It ought to consider whether negotiations with oil producers at government to government level are necessary to secure oil supplies in the long term and ensure adequate diversity of supplies. Japan has been forced into that situation. It can no longer rely on negotiations by multinational oil companies. 
Australia's ability to identify energy problems and provide solutions is greatly restricted by the lack of authority and co-ordination of its energy management. Regrettably, the authority for energy matters, as in the United States and the EEC, is dispersed over more than a score of agencies and commissions. It is unfortunate that some States have taken unilateral decisions on energy matters that provide some parochial advantage at the expense of the national interest. It will be a national tragedy if private investment decisions on petrochemical plants, such as the decision taken during the recent Victorian State election campaign, result in Cooper Basin liquids being flared while $200m worth of feed stocks are unnecessarily imported from overseas every year. It should be obvious, even to this Government, that government intervention in such major energy decisions is essential if the long term national interest is to be protected. It should also be obvious that energy export decisions in the interests of one State are not necessarily in the interests of the nation as a whole. The time has come when the Government ought to consider holding a referendum to gain constitutional power over resource-energy decisions. The Federal Government cannot escape the fact that energy decisions taken by States inevitably affect federal responsibility. 
Exactly. I do not disagree with that comment at all. In particular, the economic backwash of energy decisions cannot be avoided by the Commonwealth. No government in this situation can allow private enterprise to manipulate an energy resource for no reason other than to maximise its profits. That will no longer be the ball game in any country in the world. The Commonwealth has a responsibility for the level of foreign investment and ultimately for securing energy supply, and for any government to government negotiations which may be necessary if this is to be achieved. A particular problem for the Federal Government will be the increasing cost of imported oil and its impact on the balance of payments. Current estimates are that the cost of imported fuels will rise from about $l,000m this year to $3,000m in 1985. Obviously, the States do not have the same incentive as the Federal Government to minimise fuel costs. 
The injection of large doses of Arab money into this country became a sensitive issue in 1 975. The Government chooses to ignore that now. It was then and still is a matter which ought to be understood. The implications are important. Plans need to be made to meet possible contingencies. For example, not only is the United States faced with a high import bill to which the recent drop in the United States dollar can in some measure be attributable, but also this high capital outflow has given rise to an equally high capital inflow of Arab origin which must be taken into account in any assessment of that country's short or long term economic situation. This high reinvestment of Arab money in foreign assets reached a staggering $155, 000m in 1977, of which $ 120,000m was dollar dominated. Return on Saudi Arabian oil investment in the United States reached an equally staggering $38,000m in 1976. Because of the range of investment, the economic effects of this in the United States are enormous. Admittedly, to date investment competence has been the order of the day but the contingency must surely be considered that an exporting country or countries may exploit two lethal mechanisms- an importing country's dependence on oil and the threat to manipulate investments to win support for economic strategic or political reasons. 
We ought to acknowledge that as our import bill escalates do does our vulnerability. Obviously, we can also expect some degree of Arab investment. We ought to remember and reflect upon the fact that it was not very long ago that the collapse of the United Kingdom pound was partly triggered by the withdrawal of Nigerian oil money. Whilst the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries remains reasonably intact, production and distribution internationally are, to some extent, secure. However, if demand outstrips supply as predicted, and if OPEC splits apart and prices are left to the market place or market forces, which is the term which my friend opposite loves to use- it underpins his whole philosophy- we will be playing in an entirely different ball park which will require a new set of rules. The honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde)  would not want that to happen. If it eventuates, as a small nation we will be but small fish forced to fight for our survival with the large sharks for what is left of a dwindling resource. Clearly, we ought to make plans to meet this situation. 
Events internationally have for a long time been warning thoughtful governments of just how critical the situation is. For example, most, if not all, of the increasing number of claims involving territorial boundary disputes can be sheeted home to the scramble to obtain and control reserves of vital energy resources. I cite as examples the Spratly and Paracel Islands in the South China Sea. Another example is the carve-up of Angola, or the enclave of Cabinda, where the West made a deplorable mess. The Gulf oil company had more political awareness than the United States. Further examples are the North Sea, the Aegean between Cyprus, Greece and Turkey, the Falkland Islands and last, but not least, the renewed interest in Antarctica. In addition to the powerful economic arguments in favour of federal control over all energy decisions there is the fact that energy resources are not distributed uniformly over the Australian continent. There is likely to be an increasing need in the future for energy resources to cross State borders. Our natural gas is already transported from the most energy poor State, South Australia, to New South Wales which has large coal reserves. It is likely in the future that natural gas from the North West Shelf will be required for the eastern State markets, particularly if the Government continues to downgrade exploration for gas. Decisions on these questions will best be taken from a national point of view. 
If the political problems of energy management are stripped away, the energy problem in Australia is relatively easy to define. Our main energy goal should be to maximise selfsufficiency in oil for the foreseeable future. This can be achieved by a combination of increased exploration, conservation, research and development of coal to oil conversion as a fall-back position and other similar technology. I suggest to the Government that inter-fuel substitution ought to be made a matter of priority. There is enormous scope in each of these areas for progress to be made if only the Government can co-ordinate the attack on the problems and provide sufficient funding and other incentives. So far, the Government has made only a few ad hoc decisions in these areas. It has yet to specify any targets which its energy policies should achieve. It has not stipulated one target. 
Many other countries have outlined detailed energy programs with specific objectives in mind. For example, Canada released an energy strategy over three years ago which sets specific targets for energy growth rates, self-sufficiency, research and development and Canadian ownership. The strategy also outlines specific policies to achieve these targets with an appropriate timetable for implementation. The other important thing under the Canadian Government strategy is that it also includes a mandatory reporting system for the energy industries to ensure that a reasonable share of the cash flow is used for exploration and development. There ought to be a mandatory system in this country. 
The Canadian approach highlights the main deficiency in Australian energy policy, that is, the fact that regrettably in this country there is no policy or plan. Oil companies, external committees and State governments have had much more say in the development of Australian energy policies than this Federal Parliament. In fact, there has not been one study into any aspect of energy policy which has involved members of this Parliament. Any policies coming from the Government are presented to the Parliament as a fait accompli. It is quite incongruous that parliamentary committees examine all major aspects of government such as foreign affairs, defence, environment, immigration, public works and expenditure, yet there has been no inquiry into energy by any committee of this Parliament. The only one that I can recall is a Sub-Committee of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence of which I was a member and which inquired into the situation in the Middle East. Never at any time has a sub-committee or a committee of this Parliament inquired into the most critical question that is facing this countryenergy. Perhaps the Government is afraid that its members might suffer from shock- and some of them, I suggest, members of that Sub-committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, did- if they are exposed to the energy situation facing this country and the neglect, if you like, by their Government in preparing for that situation. There is a critical need for a joint select committee on energy to be set up immediately. 
In addition to parliamentary scrutiny there is also the need to set up a commission with the power to monitor world trends in both minerals and fuels and to collect commercial statistics and data at a national and international level to enable precise evaluation and forecasting. I asked the responsible Minister a month ago whether in fact there was any mechanism by which the Government could obtain this information. I was told that there was no such mechanism within the Government. No government can afford to plan its fuel and energy structure on untried, unproven alternative sources of technology. The cost of governmental ignorance in these areas will prove an enormous burden to Australian taxpayers in the years to come. I suggest that unless funds are now made available to inquire into the aspect of technology and research we, along with the West, will face a severe shortage of materials and those materials that are available will be at steeply escalated prices. Areas in which such research funds are vital include the exploration and exploitation of the seabed, deep buried mineral deposits, methods to process low grade and conventional ores, reducing the energy requirements of current processes and the use of alternative materials. 
The most frightening aspect of Australian energy problems, present or future, has been the incredible tardiness of this Government to respond to them. When bodies such as the Royal Commission on Petroleum have provided detailed studies of energy problems and suggested appropriate solutions the Government has not been able to turn those recommendations into any sense of reality. It seems that Australia will have to suffer a disastrous period of oil depletion before the Government will sweep away the impediments to necessary action. It is pointless for the Government to outline broad energy policies unless it is able to develop the fine print of those policies. It is unrealistic to expect that rapid progress is possible without a commensurate increase in staff and resources to cope with the added responsibility of better energy planning. It will also be necessary for the Government to assert its authority over the States and the energy corporations. Unless the Government is prepared to make a national energy policy its top priority and back it up with action, we will soon find ourselves plunged into exactly the same disastrous position as other energydependent countries. Even at this late stage there is still time for the Government to ensure that Australia need not fear the energy crisis which threatens to become a common occurrence for the remainder of this century, but it will have to do a lot better than produce a document that might as well have been written by oil companies in board rooms. I conclude my speech by quoting a very telling extract from a worthwhile publication called  Real Wealth of Nations,  written by S. J. Eyre. We all ought to reflect upon it. It reads: 
Humanity now seems to be moving into a stage where resource exploration of a sporadic and unplanned nature, though of a kind that was viable in the past, will no longer be so. 
Formerly well-endowed nations had sufficient elbow room to evade the extreme punishment of resource mismanagement; the evidence indicates that the future will not be so kind. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Kevin  Cairns) adjourned. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 27 March 1979: 
1 ) Is it a fact that a sentence of S years imprisonment for bank frauds was imposed in absentia by the Swiss Federal Court on  Mr Renzo  di Piramo who, according to the Minister's answer to question No. 744 on 25 May 1977  (Hansard,  page 1903), was granted Australian citizenship and an Australian passport on 6 August 1 976. 
Are any of  Mr di  Piramo 's subsequent overseas movements known, and does he still hold Australian citizenship and an Australian passport. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 3 May 1 979: 
1 ) Will he bring up to date the information he gave on 9 May 1978  (Hansard  page 2 109) on the movements of Naval ships in the Indian Ocean. 
) Will be also provide information on the movements of Russian naval ships in the North, West and South Pacific. 
-These amendments are, in our view, simply to remove the power of the Minister and the ComptrollerGeneral to delegate their powers to issue warrants under the Act. As the legislation committee amendments have had the effect of removing their powers to issue warrants in respect of listening devices, there is no power left to delegate. The amendments simply provide for the tightening up of this measure. We do not oppose the amendment. 
Amendment agreed to. 
-The Opposition does not object to this amendment. 
Amendment agreed to. 
-The amendment is to provide, as stated by the Minister, for arrangements to be made with State governments and the Government of the Northern Territory for judges of the supreme courts of the States and the Northern Territory to perform functions embodied in the legislation committee amendment. Magistrates will be used for the purpose of an order requiring body searches. The provisions are simply enabling provisions. We certainly do not oppose the amendment. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause 4, as amended, agreed to. 
-Honourable members will recall that this matter was raised during the legislation committee by the honourable member for Prospect,  Dr Klugman.  The particular query related to the issue of certificates by medical practitioners which were to be considered prima facie evidence as to the matters contained in them. The difficulty arose from the fact that injustice could arise. An accused could face in court the certificate of a doctor whom he could not call to give evidence. We debated this at some length in the legislation committee. This amendment ensures that persons who have been the subject of body searches by medical practitioners are given copies of the doctor's certificate at the earliest available opportunity. The Opposition supports the amendment. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause 6, as further amended, agreed to. 
-This amendment redrafts the definition of 'judge' as proposed by the Opposition. I am pleased to say that it was accepted by the legislation committee. The definition has been re-drafted to take account of the arrangements in respect of State Governments under Government amendment No. 3, as indicated earlier by the Minister. The range of judges to be involved in the issue of warrants remains the same as that proposed by the Opposition. Therefore we do not oppose the amendment. 
Amendment agreed to. 
I seek leave to move Opposition amendments Nos (1) to (7) standing in the name of the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen). 
Leave granted. 
I move Opposition amendments Nos (1) to (7): 
1 ) That amendment No. (6) proposed by the Government be amended by omitting from proposed sub-section (5 ) ' by information on oath ' and substituting ' by affidavit '. 
That amendment No. (6) proposed by the Government be amended by inserting 'of the Federal Court' after Judge ' in proposed sub-section ( 5a). 
That amendment No. (6) proposed by the Government be amended by adding at the end of proposed subsection (5a) 'but a Judge of the Supreme Court of a State or of the Supreme Court of the Northern Territory or of the 
Australian Capital Territory shall not grant a warrant authorizing the use of a listening device unless the listening device is to be used in the State or Territory of which the Judge is a Judge of the Supreme Court'. 
That amendment No. (6) proposed by the Government be amended by inserting after proposed sub-section ( 5 a ) the following sub-section:  "(5B) A Judge shall not issue a warrant under subsection (5) in relation to an affidavit of an officer of Customs unless- 
the affidavit of the officer of Customs under subsection (5) specifies the facts and other grounds on which the issue of the warrant is sought; 
the officer of Customs has given to the Judge, either orally, or by further affidavit, such further information as the Judge requires concerning the grounds on which the issue of a warrant is being sought; 
the Judge is satisfied as to the matters specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of sub-section (5); 
the Judge is satisfied that other methods of investigation have been tried without success, or would be unlikely to be successful, or would be impracticable; and 
the Judge is satisfied that, given the seriousness of the suspected offence, or suspected likely offence, the issue of a warrant would be in the public interest. " '. 
That amendment No. (6) proposed by the Government be amended by inserting 'of the Federal Court' after Judge'in proposed sub-section (6a). 
That amendment No. (6) proposed by the Government be amended by adding at the end of proposed subsection (6a) 'but a Judge of the Supreme Court of a State or of the Supreme Court of the Northern Territory or of the Australian Capital Territory shall not grant a warrant authorizing the use of a listening device unless the use of a listening device is in respect of premises situated in the State or Territory of which the Judge is a Judge of the Supreme Court'. 
That amendment No. (6) proposed by the Government be amended by adding after proposed sub-section (6a) the following sub-section:  "(6b) A Judge shall not issue a warrant under subsection (6) in relation to an affidavit of an officer of Customs unless- 
the affidavit of the officer of Customs under subsection (6) specifies the facts and other grounds on which the issue of the warrant is sought; 
the officer of Customs has given to the Judge, either orally, or by further affidavit, such further information as the Judge requires concerning the grounds on which the issue of a warrant is being sought; 
the Judge is satisfied as to the matters specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of sub-section (6); 
the Judge is satisfied that other methods of investigation have been tried without success, or would be unlikely to be successful, or would be impracticable; and 
the Judge is satisfied that, given the seriousness of the suspected offence, or suspected likely offence, the issue of a warrant would be in the public interest. ' ' '. 
Initially, I intended to suggest that we should consider these amendments in conjunction with Government amendment No. (9) but I think it may upset the nature of the proceedings to do so. 
The issue of warrants in respect of listening devices occupied by far the most time of the legislation committee. It was regarded by the Opposition as being of fundamental importance. In that respect we were joined by the honourable member for Fadden  (Mr Donald Cameron)  and the right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon).  I am grateful that the Government has acceded to the decision of the legislation committee that warrants should be issued by a judge rather than by a Minister or by the Comptroller in the case of an emergency. It is a welcome move. However, simply inserting the word 'judge' instead of the word 'Minister', as this amendment tends to do, is in breach of the spirit of the amendment proposed by the legislation committee. With due deference, regrettably that is what has been done by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife). 
During the considerations of the legislation committee much mention was made not only by the Opposition but also by the honourable member for Fadden and the right honourable member for Lowe of the comments of the Law Reform Commission at page 107 of the report on criminal investigation in 1975. In that section of its report the Law Reform Commission drew attention to several tests which should be satisfied before a warrant for the issue of a listening device is issued. The committee discussed this matter at length. In particular, I drew attention to the recommendation that listening devices should be used virtually only as a last resort and only in respect of serious offences. In its amendments the Government has simply ignored these aspects of the Opposition amendments and made the only test of whether a warrant should be issued the question of whether reasonable grounds exist for believing that a person has committed or is likely to commit an offence. We discussed that at length. The right honourable member for Lowe agrees with me. This places the use of listening devices in the same category as any other tool of investigation. 
The fact that judicial rather than ministerial warrants are to be used is, of course, a safeguard against the improper use of listening devices. One can concede that. However, it was the intention of the Opposition, and I believe the intention of the legislation committee, to ensure that listening devices should be used only rarely and only in cases of necessity. The Government amendments at least provide that listening devices should be used only in the investigation of offences against the Customs Act but they allow such devices to be used in almost every case. We ought to think about the ramifications of that. 
The potential invasion of privacy involved in the use of these devices is far too great to allow them to be used on any basis approaching regularity. For that reason we press the amendments moved in and accepted by the legislation committee and proposed here as new sub-sections (5B) and (6B) of proposed section 2 1 9B. 
Proposed sub-sections (5A) and (6A) cause considerable difficulty. Whilst it may not have been explicitly spelt out by the Opposition amendments, it was never the intention that State and Territory Supreme Court judges should issue warrants in respect of listening devices to be used anywhere but in the State of the judge. That was clearly the position as I understood it. Under this provision a judge of the Queensland Supreme Court, for example, can authorise the use of a listening device in Tasmania. The only possible reason for the insertion of such an amendment would seem to be that the Government believes that somewhere in Australia it can find a 'tame cat' Supreme Court judge to issue warrants. It is quite amazing for a Government that is based on federalist principles to allow the issue of what amount to extraterritorial warrants. The amendment proposed by the insertion of new section 219C allows for the information furnished to a judge to be oral. We have very grave objections to that provision. Perhaps the most startling thing about it is that its consequences have not been followed through logically. No doubt the provision is to take account of admittedly complex Opposition proposals concerning telephone warrants. It appears that the Government believes that through this mechanism of providing for information on oath to be given orally, the problems of emergency warrants can be overcome. However, it is simply absurd that a person on one end of the telephone can be sworn by the person on the other end to make a statement. The great advantage of the Opposition's proposal was that it removed the need in emergency situations for face to face contact between the judge and the person seeking the warrant while still providing for the necessary documentation to ensure with certainty that justice is done. Under this legislation the only documentation required is the warrant itself. The Opposition proposed that both the person seeking the warrant and the judge should provide documentation as to the reason for the issue of the warrant. Quite frankly, I thought that that would be obligatory. The Government's proposal is simply absurd and, if I might says so, it is unworkable. 
-I find it rather odd that the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman),  the right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon)  and the honourable member for Fadden  (Mr Donald 
Cameron) have addressed themselves to proposed new section 219G. For example, subsection (3) (a) of that section deals with narcotics. The part to which they were addressing themselves is far in advance of" the matter before the House at the moment. With due deference, the matter before the House at the moment is the issuing of warrants by judges. I concede that honourable members on both sides of the House are concerned about privacy but the issue before the House at the moment is the criteria under which the warrants are to be issued. 
I am just summing up on behalf of the Opposition. I think the principal difference between the Australian Labor Party and the Government is the use to which listening devices should be put. I wish honourable members opposite had addressed themselves to that matter. The Government believes that listening devices can be used as a normal investigatory tool. The Labor Party believes that they ought to be utilised only as a matter of last resort. The question I address to honourable members opposite, and they ought to think about it between now and when we deal with this proposed new section 219G, is: Are they seriously putting to the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  that if, through a listening device, information is divulged on other than narcotics it should not be passed on? Are they seriously putting the proposition that if it is about, say, an intention to murder it might not be passed on? If they are seriously saying that, I think they ought to address themselves to it when we come to it. But if they really want to build into the legislation some provisions that give some sense of security to the privacy of the individual they ought to address themselves to the question of just how they want to issue the warrants. All I am suggesting is that the amendments put forward by the Opposition are constructed to that end and will achieve that end. 
-The Opposition opposes the amendment. I just preface my speech by saying that if we concede, as both sides do, that we have to resort to the use of listening devices, I would have thought that it was critically important that we fix the criteria upon which the judge, if you like, is to certify the authorisation. I regret to say we did not really look at that matter. The Government ought to have done so during consideration of the preceding set of amendments because that was the real issue involved. The amendment will allow warrants to be of 90 days duration. The Opposition feelsand we put this up quite sincerely- that they ought to be issued on the basis of a 30 day duration. As honourable members know, the Law Reform Commission's proposal is that warrants should be issued for a period of only 7 days. I think, in these circumstances, the Opposition has been more than generous. Frankly, we are not prepared to display any further generosity in relation to this matter. 
The longer the period a warrant remains in force, of course, the greater is the potential for invasion of privacy. One has to concede, I suppose, that if we are to protect society by law, by regulations or by statutes in these sorts of areas, obviously there will be some loss somewhere of liberty or an invasion of privacy. To date, I think the Opposition has been reasonably constructive on all these matters. 
I come back to what I said earlier. A warrant cannot be issued at all unless reasonable grounds can be shown that a person has committed or is likely to commit an offence. We pleaded with members of the Government, when considering the last set of amendments, to fix that criteria in that section of the Bill. The Government has failed to endorse that proposal. It has left the situation wide open. It has left it with the Minister or the judiciary, if you like. I suggest that if the customs officers cannot carry out their functions in 30 days or at the end of the period, it ought to be obligatory on them to seek another warrant. One is left to wonder why these officers sought the warrant in the first place. Listening devices should not be used as a tool for fishing expeditions. I suggest to the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  and to honourable members opposite that they all seriously look at this matter. At least the proposals set out in the amendment are quite reasonable. 
Amendment agreed to. 
-We oppose the amendment. The proposal embodied in amendment No. (8) was based again on the report of the Law Reform Commission on the draft criminal investigation Bill in respect of search warrants. Whilst normally the issue of a warrant by a judge would not be subject to review by another court, the accused can always move in a criminal trial that a judge should exercise his discretion to exclude illegally obtained evidence. The amendment of the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  is an attempt to ensure that a further judicial review of the issue of a warrant, difficult as it is under the laws of evidence, simply cannot occur. I think we discussed this at quite some length. The amendment of the legislation committee represents a small safeguard but I suggest a very important one. Certainly it was not an onerous requirement on a judge. There is no good reason why the amendment should be omitted. The Minister said nothing that in any way satisfied the Opposition on this particular matter. To that extent we would oppose amendments Nos (8) and (9). 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-The Opposition formally opposes this amendment for the same reasons I advanced a few moments ago. 
Amendment agreed to. 
-Amendment No. 10 omits proposed new section 21 9D which allows the use of warrants to be granted over the telephone in an emergency situation. Amendment No. 12 simply omits a reference in the Bill to section 219D. For the reasons already made clear, the Opposition believes that warrants in this area should not be granted unless the necessary documentation is provided to ensure that everything has been above board. We have repeated this belief during debate on the last three amendments. The Government's amendments to date have not provided this safeguard nor do they satisfy the Opposition. We press the legislation committee amendment in relation to 2 19D accordingly. 
Amendment agreed to. 
-The Opposition is not opposed to amendment No. 1 1 which simply removes the question of the obligation of the Comptroller to furnish documents to the Minister from proposed new section 219D(a) to proposed new section 219L. However proposed new section 2 1 9L as moved by the Minister does not allow the furnishing of documents- this is what he said- which we believe should be issued in connection with warrants, that is affidavits, by customs officers and endorsement by judges. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-The amendment allows for the ComptrollerGeneral to revoke warrants for the reason that the grounds on which the warrant was issued ceased to exist. The Opposition supports the amendment, subject to our proviso mentioned earlier that we believe that warrants should be of only 30 days duration. 
-The Opposition is in a difficult position. It received a copy of the amendment only 20 minutes or so before the debate resumed. The amendment relates to an important matter. The honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  has raised three important issues- access, disclosure and privacy. Honourable members on this side of the House have not had the opportunity to discuss his amendment either in the legislation committee or in Caucus. We would like to do so. In fairness to the honourable member we should do so. I give an undertaking to the honourable member that my party's position on his amendment will be considered when the matter is dealt with in the Senate. 
-Proposed new section 219G(2)(a) applies to investigations in relation to narcotic offences and proposed new section 219G(3)(a) applies to evidence used in a court of law. The amendment of the right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon),  as we of the Opposition understand it, would have the effect of excluding evidence gained from the use of a listening device to be used in any proceedings even in respect of a narcotics offence. If a Customs officer discovers by the use of a listening device that a murder may be committed it is absurd that he should be required to keep the information secret. I go back to what we of the Opposition said in relation to earlier amendments. The Government had the opportunity- but it refused to endorse our amendments- to take a stand on this in respect of the provisions relating to the issuing of warrants by a judge. 
The amendment, if I might say so to the right honourable member for Lowe, seems to us, with the greatest of respect, to be somewhat odd. Proposed new section 219G(3)(a), which the right honourable member for Lowe proposes to leave out of the Bill, provides for information gained from the use of listening devices to be used as evidence in criminal proceedings, in relation to both narcotic offences and certain other serious offences. The amendment, if it were accepted, would throw out the baby with the bath water. If it were accepted it would mean that the information gained from the use of listening devices could not be used in criminal proceedings for narcotic offences. That is what his amendment means. That would be a negation of the whole purpose of the use of listening devices. The amendment must be rejected. We would have to do that. The Opposition carefully considered the matter of whether information gained from the use of listening devices could be used in the prosecution of other serious offences. We considered that at length. Our conclusion was that it would be absurd not to use that information. I come back to the earlier amendments. The Government cannot dodge the issue. It chose to do so. 
It is just not real to prevent information, for example as I said earlier, about a murder, being used in a criminal proceeding. Again I ask honourable members on the Government side to consider whether that is in fact what they want. It has been our view that warrants ought to be subject to very strict tests in order to ensure that the privacy of individuals is safeguarded. Honourable members would do better to support the Opposition's proposal than to move amendments which any member of the public would consider to be absurd. I conclude on this note. As I said earlier, the real issue on this matter and the preceding amendments is simply what criteria is it suggested ought to be fixed for the issuing of warrants because it is the judge who initially grants the right by warrant to install a listening device. If the Government had at least considered our amendments and our propositions it would not be in the position it is in now. 
I advise the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  that the gag which was applied tonight was applied by the Government. I find it utterly deplorable. Important matters which have been before the House and which continue to be before the House must be disposed of before we complete discussion on the Bills. This debate has clearly shown that. This sort of debate, under no consideration should warrant the gag being applied. There are sincere beliefs on both sides of the House as is instanced in this amendment by the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson).  The regrettable fact was- I do not know about the Government side- that we received a copy of the honourable member's amendment only 20 minutes before it was debated. I think that honourable members on the Opposition side of the House certainly sympathise. Regrettably, this aspect of the matter was not discussed in the legislation committee to the degree that it has been discussed tonight. The Opposition certainly sympathises with the sentiments put forward by the honourable member for Sturt. I would say that I speak for both sides of the House. As the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition pointed out in the legislation committee, we are concerned, and have been consistently concerned, about the improper disclosure of information obtained by bugging devices. 
I strongly suggest to the House that Opposition members are not sure at this stage that the amendment is the best way of achieving this result, nor are they certain that it is consistent with the overall objectives of the Bill or the mechanics that it employs. The Opposition seeks more time- I certainly do and I think my party committee does- to consider it and then perhaps we can discuss the matter between now and when it goes to the Senate to see that appropriate provisions are finally put into the Bill which will cover the concern of most honourable members on both sides of the House. 
-The Opposition supports the amendment moved by the Government which, as I understand it, will give a court the discretion in criminal proceedings to exclude evidence obtained from listening devices if that evidence would operate unfairly for the defendant. Courts retain a residual discretion to exclude evidence which unfairly prejudices the interests of a defendant. One ought to weigh up what the courts refer to as the probative value of the evidence and its prejudicial qualities. In that sense this amendment takes the position perhaps a little further than the common law position. However, evidence is hard to exclude on the laws  of evidence and this amendment will give a defendant a much better chance to have excluded unfairly prejudicial evidence. As the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  will be aware, the Opposition got this amendment only about two hours ago. Whilst we thought we would support the amendment we will certainly consider the matter further in deciding what attitude we will take when the legislation comes before the Senate. We support the measure at this stage. 
Amendment agreed to. 
-The course suggested by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  is satisfactory to the Opposition. I seek leave to amend my amendment No. 8 accordingly, as suggested by the Minister. 
Leave granted. 
I briefly comment that as it is admitted that the matter of warrants issued on affidavits by Customs officers has already been discussed by the House and defeated, I therefore move: 
That amendment No. (13) made by the legislation committee be omitted and the following amendment substituted: "( 13) Clause 8, page 9, lines 20-36, omit proposed section 2 1 9j, substitute the following proposed section: 2 19 J. The Comptroller shall cause to be retained in the records of his Department all warrants issued under section 219b, all documents furnished to a Judge in connection with the issue of those warrants and all instruments issued under section 2 1 9f revoking warrants so issued. '. ". 
Amendment agreed to. 
-The course suggested by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  is satisfactory to the Opposition. I seek leave to amend my amendment No. 9, as suggested by the Minister. 
Leave granted. 
We canvassed this matter extensively in the legislation committee. The Opposition is grateful that the Government has accepted its approach on this matter. I move: 
That the following amendment be made to the Bill: 
Clause 8, page 10, lines 1-4, omit proposed section 2 1 9l, substitute the following section: 219L. ( I ) The Comptroller-General shall furnish to the Minister a copy of each warrant issued under section 2 1 9B, a copy of all documents furnished to a Judge in connection with the issue of the warrant and each instrument issued under section 2 1 9F revoking the warrant as soon as practicable after the issue or revocation of warrant. 
The Comptroller-General shall furnish to the Minister, in respect of each warrant issued under section 2 1 9b, a report in writing on the extent to which action taken under the warrant has assisted officers of Customs in narcotics inquiries that have been made by them.'.". 
Amendment agreed to. 
-Amendment No. 10 standing in my name relates to the Government's amendment No. 1 5. 1 move: 
That amendment No. (15) proposed by the Government be amended by adding at the end thereof the following sub-sections: "'(3) The Minister shall, as soon as practicable after 30 June each year, cause to be laid before both Houses of Parliament a report which shall compile in full the reports made to the Minister by the Comptroller under subsection ( 1 ) during the preceding year.  "(4) Notwithstanding sub-section (3), the Minister shall not be required to disclose in a report under subsection (3) any information which would or would be reasonably likely to- 
prejudice the investigation of a breach or possible breach of the law or the enforcement of proper administration of the law in a particular instance; 
prejudice the fair trial of a person or the impartial adjudication of a particular case; 
disclose, or enable a person to ascertain, the identity of a confidential source of information in relation to the enforcement or administration of the law; 
disclose methods or procedures for preventing, detecting, investigating, or dealing with matters arising out of, breaches or evasions of the law, the disclosure of which would, or would be reasonably likely to, prejudice the effectiveness of those methods or procedures; or 
endanger the lives or physical safety of persons engaged in orin connection with law enforcement. "(5) Where any information is withheld from a report to Parliament under sub-section (4), the report shall detail the number of cases to which sub-section (4) applies and the reason, being a reason specified in paragraph (a), (b), (c), (d ) or (e) of sub-section (4), for non-disclosure of information in each case. "(6) Any information withheld under sub-section (4) shall be detailed in an annual report to Parliament under sub-section (3) at the first available opportunity after the reason for non-disclosure, being a reason specified in paragraph (a), (b), (c), (d) or (e) of sub-section (4), is no longer applicable.".'. 
Apart from the matters raised under amendment No. 1 1, there is the further question of reports to Parliament. This aspect was discussed in depth in the legislation committee and I will not go into any detail now unless other honourable members raise it. The Opposition's position on this has been quite clear. We believe that on the subject of safeguarding people's rights to a fair trial or to the administration of the law, there should be freedom of information in a matter as important as the use of listening devices. For that reason, this is the only Opposition amendment that was defeated in the legislation committee which in fact we are moving tonight. We urge the Government to reconsider the purpose of the amendment. 
I do not want to delay the House, but I do want to put on the record an issue that I raised in the legislation committee. I raised in that committee the point that we are going to have, as I understood the situation, two sets of contrary statutory laws in this country. The proposed new section 219L now before the House reads: 
The Comptroller-General shall furnish to the Minister, in respect of each warrant issued under this Division, a report in writing on the extent to which the action taken under the warrant has assisted officers of Customs in narcotics inquiries that have been made by them. 
The point I raised in the legislation committee was simply this: Under the forthcoming national securities and companies legislation any investigatory procedures undertaken cannot be directed either by a Minister or by ministerial council. Such direction is the exclusive prerogative of the law officer of the Crown, and that is as it should be. I am saying this simply to put it on the record. People's rights and privileges ought to be protected. A Minister has privileges. I think that the provisions of the national securities and companies legislation are extremely important. Under those provisions, any investigations in the corporate sector are to be undertaken by the Corporate Affairs Commission and any information that results from that investigation prior to prosecution is a matter that must lie with the law officer of the Crown. It is not to be the privilege of politicians on both sides of the House to use information affecting a person outside the House who has no redress whatsoever. I indicated that and got no support in the legislation committee. I put the matter on record only in the hope that ultimately the Senate will consider the fact that we are going to have two sets of statutory law in this country, one of which I certainly support. I refer to the set of laws that are to be encompassed within the national securities legislation and subsequent legislation. I suggest to the Minister the amendment we have put forward in this regard which reads in part: 
Notwithstanding sub-section (3), the Minister shall not be required to disclose in a report under sub-section (3) any information which would or would be reasonably likely to . . . 
I suggest that that is my party's amendment. I view the matter with considerable concern. Quite frankly my view is that the Minister should not be entitled to make reports to this Parliament on matters that are going through the stage of investigatory procedures. I would prefer that sort of matter to lie with the Attorney-General, the law office of the Crown- the Solicitor-General- or the Commissioner for Corporate Affairs. At this stage I ask the House to reflect upon this matter. 
I am grateful that the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  has raised the aspect of the briefing of the Leader of the Opposition. The Opposition accepts the position put forward, but we do so with some reservations. Nonetheless we accept it. 
-The Opposition will support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman).  As the honourable member is aware, I think, the Opposition proposed the total deletion of proposed new section 243D because it objected to the effect on the defendant which is the same issue as he has raised. The proposed new section is also of doubtful constitutional validity, because this Parliament only has power in relation to imported goods. I think the honourable member raised that point. This provision assumes that all narcotics are imported, unless the defendant can establish to the contrary. For these reasons, which were discussed at the legislative committee, the Opposition supports the proposed amendment. 
-I advise the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  in advance that he is not likely to get that. This amendment requires proof beyond reasonable doubt on every question relating to the action. It will be remembered that this was discussed at length by the legislation committee. Opposition amendment No. 1 1, to which we will shortly come, simply requires this standard of proof on the threshold question of whether, in effect, a person is guilty. On the question of penalties, once guilt has been established, we believe that proof on the balance of probabilities is sufficient. This has been discussed at length by the legislation committee. 
-I move Opposition amendment No. (11): 
That amendment No. ( 14) made by the legislation committee be omitted and the following amendment substituted: 
<para class="ParlAmend">(14) Clause 13, page 17, omit proposed section 243e, substitute the following section:  "243e. In a proceeding under this matter, the degree to which the Court must be satisfied in respect of a matter shall be- 
<para class="indenta">(a) if the matter involves a question of fact as to whether a person has engaged in a particular prescribed narcotics dealing or has engaged in prescribed narcotics dealings during a particular period- satisfaction of the Court on the matter beyond reasonable doubt; or 
<para class="indenta">(b) any matter other than a matter involving a question specified in paragraph (a)satisfaction of the Court on the matter on the balance of probabilities." '. 
This amendment touches on the one just dealt with. The position as the Opposition understands it is that a giant con job is involved in this respect. The position of the legislation committee was absolutely clear. The majority view was that the threshold questions about whether a person had engaded in the drug trade were to be determined on the normal criminal standards of proof beyond reasonable doubt. The honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  might listen, because we are back to where we were before. The Government is moving simply to delete all references to the question of proof, no doubt in the belief that Division 3 of Part XIII provides for civil proceedings. The Government clearly hopes that a court would take the view that the standard of proof to apply was simply a standard of proof on the balance of probabilities. Amendment No. 16 is a dishonest amendment and we oppose it strongly. 
-For reasons that we indicated earlier we strongly oppose the amendment. 
-I move: 
That the following amendment be made to the Bill: 
After clause 14, page 26, insert the following new clause:  14a. Before section 274 of the Principal Act the following section is inserted in Part XVII: "273G. The Minister shall, from time to time, and not less frequently than once each year, arrange for the Leader of the Opposition in the House of Representatives to be briefed on matters relating to contraventions of this Act in respect of narcotic substances.".'. 
I believe that the amendment is self-explanatory. It arises out of an undertaking given by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  at the legislation committee to the effect that he would accept an amendment in these terms. Whilst we certainly do not believe that it provides the accountability and scrutiny to which we believe this whole question should be subject, at least it is, in our view, an additional safeguard. 
-The amendment corrects a mistake in the mathematics of what constitute commercial quantities in respect of lysergic acid and lysergicide. The mistake was pointed out, as I vividly recall, by the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  in the legislation committee. We are delighted that it now has been rectified. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause15, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill, as reported from Legislation Committee, and as further amended, agreed to. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
How many Taxation Office officials are currently investigating the transfer price charged by multi-national oil companies for imported crude oil and products. 
Has this number varied in the last 2 years; if so, by how many and why. 
Have any adjustments under section 136 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 been made relating to multinational oil companies, specifically in reference to using misleading transfer prices, in the last 5 years. 
What sums of additional taxation revenue were gained by the Taxation Office correcting the misleading information on transfer prices used by these multi-national companies in the last 5 years. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 2 1 March 1 979: 
1 ) What additional sums will (a) BHP, (b) Esso and (c) other Australian oil producers receive in 1978-79 as a result of the 1 978-79 Budget decision on oil pricing. 
What sums have these companies spent on oil exploration in Australia since the Budget decision. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 1 May 1979: 
1 ) When will he be able to report on the findings of the appraisal undertaken by his Department on possible alternatives to the LD50 test on live animals. 
Has his Department reached any conclusions in the matter of toxicity tests not using live animals, which he stated to be under review in his Department on 29 May 1978 (Hansard, page 2712). 
Was he able to remove any bureaucratic requirements for the LD50 test as a result of his Department 's inquiries. 
Can he say what standards are demanded of breeders of laboratory animals that may be purchased by Government departments. 
Are inspections made from time to time of the premises of breeders of laboratory animals which may be supplied to Government departments; if so, by whom. 
Does he envisage any new legislation or administrat ive changes arising out of his Departmental Inquiry. 
Whilst the Opposition may support the concept of the Australian Federal Police Bill, it will oppose and resist a number of provisions. I approach this legislation with a deep sense of cynicism which is soundly based on this Government's political duplicity and outright hypocrisy. Throughout the period of office of the Labor Government I was a member of the Caucus legal and constitutional committee which was largely responsible for the structure of the Australia Police Bill which we introduced on 30 October 1975. That Bill was thoroughly discussed and examined. As I recall, we had lengthy discussions with the Commonwealth Police Officers Association. I honestly admit that the Bill was predictably unpopular, particularly amongst police officers. Any drasticchange was then, as it is now, a bitter pill to digest. Despite what the honourable member for 
Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  said, the Bill raised, as the present Bill does, the thorny question of restructuring, reclassification and the status of police officers. We ought to understand that that was the kernel of the problem. 
For the reasons that we enunciated at the time, I believe that the 1 975 legislation was sound and necessary, as the present Bill is, if the federal law enforcement agencies were to be both effective and efficient. But what do we find? The political duplicity and outright hypocrisy of the Government, both now and when it was in opposition, is utterly deplorable. I strongly contend tonight that the shortcomings that led to the introduction of the legislation in 1975 were thrown up following a comprehensive study into the Commonwealth Police and the Australian Capital Territory Police forces in 1973. The measures contained in the Bill we introduced in 1975 and those in the present legislation attest at least to our foresight and credibility. But they speak volumes for the Government's fork-tongued approach in this critically important area. In 1 975 the then Opposition opposed the Bill. It claimed it be a plank of socialist philosophy. As I recall only too vividly, in the run up to the 1975 elections two current Ministers attended a meeting of police officers. They gave an unequivocal and categoric undertaking that there would be no repetition of the 1 975 legislation and no amalgamation of the police forces. This reminds me of what an old Scotsman once said to me. He said: Never let politics bother you, Ralph. After all, the capacity for human intelligence to absorb garbage is unlimited'. That happened in 1975. 1 wonder how gullible the police forces would be today. 
This legislation is another glaring testimony to the Government's duplicity, hypocrisy and total lack of credibility. The legislation was necessary in 1975. It is necessary now. It is my intention, as I said earlier, to compared the Opposition's policy and its constructive approach to this much needed reform with the Government's restrictive and negative approach. Had this Government implemented the important provisions in the Bill that we as a government introduced into this House in 1975 and had the amalgamation of the police forces taken place in 1975, it would undoubtedly have been of far greater benefit to both the Australian Police itself but more importantly and beyond question, to the police officers. It is my personal view- I sat on the committee then, as I do now- that our legislation would have made the force more effective and efficient. 
This piece of legislation falls far short of the comprehensive and necessary legislation needed if this arm of the law enforcement agency is to have the checks and balances so critically important, if it is to achieve the aims and the ends that the community expects and deserves, and that goes for both the officers and the community. I say advisedly, and I have known this for the last 20 years, that regrettably, throughout the length and breadth of this country, law enforcement officers, whether they be police or law retention officers- we call them prison officers, or officers of what is known as correctional services- are too often used as scapegoats by politicians, political parties, governments both federal and State, and, I hate to say, on a number of occasions Opposition parties. Police officers deserve a lot better than they get. Equally regrettably, all too often- I know this after being involved with correctional services in South Australia for 20 years- when Cabinet, whether it be State or Federal, starts to carve up the budget allocations for police or prison services, these services suffer cuts in government expenditure. They are sacrificed. They are at the end of the rung. Nonetheless, the public still demands a high standard of effectiveness and efficiency. 
Let me take up some of the time of the House to canvass some of the provisions we envisaged in 1 975 and contrast them with the current provisions of this Bill. The Bill in 1 975 provided for the amalgamation of the Commonwealth Police Force, the police forces of the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory, and certain sections of the Department of Customs into a single law enforcement agency to be called Australia Police. This move followed a comprehensive study carried out in 1973. It revealed that the operations of existing agencies contained a number of shortcomings. These included: A lack of co-ordination of enforcement effort in areas of common interests; duplication of effort by officers from the various agencies; wastefulness and inefficiency arising from the maintenance of separate information and intelligence systems; varying standards of training and recruitment for the various agencies; lack of highly trained capacity to deal with white collar crimethat area badly needs an overhaul, but there is nothing in this Bill to update that capacity- the need to refer the investigation of some federal offences to State police agencies; wastefulness deriving from the maintenance of separate pools of equipment and the inability to justify separate use of computer facilities. Based on the knowledge gained from studies that had been undertaken, including a close examination of overseas law enforcement agencies, it became obvious in 1975 as it is obvious now that the wastefulness and inefficiencies deriving from the multiplicity of federal law enforcement agencies in the country could best be overcome by integration of these agencies. The then Opposition, the present Government, bitterly opposed such a socialist proposition, but it is now the proposition of a Tory government. It is marvellous! 
There was and still is scope for specialised training, including that necessary to provide a higher level of expertise to detect white collar crime. One can understand why that is one arm of the police force that the Government will not update to give any semblance of expertise. One can appreciate that. The national and international training courses at present provided for State and overseas police will be expanded. We envisaged that in 1975. On the basis of existing Customs facilities, computer services currently under development include police computer systems with instant access to data by means of visual display units located throughout Australia. We wanted that too in 1975. At the moment that matter is under discussion. These services, whether maintained manually or by computer, are a necessary part of any police force and are being developed at a national level within the Australia Police. Then there is the possibility of developing a national information unit. The unit will have links with Interpol and other international agencies. This Government opposed that concept in 1975. On 16 May 1975 the Law Reform Commission reported on the question of the appropriate legislative means of safeguarding individual rights and liberties in relation to the law enforcement process of the Australia Police. So rights and liberties ought to be safeguarded, but such a provision is not contained in the legislation. 
The Law Reform Commission brought down two reports. The first report was tabled in the House on 2 September 1975 and related to a system to investigate complaints against members of Australia Police. The report is a seminal document in the development of police integrity and public confidence in the police of Australia. The Commission's second report is devoted to the difficult issue of the proper balance between police powers, which respect the right of the individual, on the one hand, and the community's need for practical and effective law enforcement on the other. Nothing in this legislation buttresses that and it is critically needed. Part I of the Bill as we envisaged it contained the usual formal provisions and, in addition, preserved existing police powers in federal laws and territorial ordinances. We provided for that in our Bill in 1975. It also provided an interim measure pending the introduction of legislation arising out of the Government's consideration of the second report of the Law Reform Commission. The Government has not yet responded to that report. 
Part IV related to appointments and terms and conditions of service, including such matters as promotion, resignation and retirement. It also provided for the making of regulations in relation to police discipline, which has not been provided for in this Bill. Parts V and VI would have established the system of dealing with complaints against police, as recommended by the Law Reform Commission. I should have thought that the police would have wanted that themselves. Central features of these parts are the provision of an oversighting role for the Ombudsman; the establishment of an internal discipline section responsible to the Chief Commissioner to investigate complaints and the creation of an Australian Police Tribunal. 
Part VII was based on the recommendations of the Law Reform Commission in relation to torts by police officers. It provided for Australia to assume vicarious liability for the actions of an officer taken in the course of his duty. So he ought to be protected. Where are the provisions in this Bill that adequately protect him? It also provided that Australia may take proceedings to recover contributions from the police officer, and so it ought to. Part VIII provided for transitional provisions in relation to the appointment of and preservation of rights of police officers automatically transferred to the Australia Police. 
The other thing which we envisaged and which I must confess was overlooked by many police officers, but which was important, was the establishment of a national police college at Bathurst in New South Wales. Courses were designed to cater for all levels of police recruitment and training appropriate to the high levels of management. Following the Labor Government defeat in 1975, the college was not established, yet the recommendation for its establishment is contained in the Mark report. The establishment of that college was another promise given by the then Opposition in 1975, and it is another broken promise of this Government. It is part of another set of lies. 
Before I conclude my remarks, I wish to make passing reference to a number of matters contained in the legislation that are of concern to police officers. Police officers are concerned, as well they might be, with the provisions contained in clauses 38 and 39. Clause 38 deals with the retirement of members by reason of mental or physical infirmity. It appears to us that the Commissioner has sole discretion as to whether or not he considers a person unfit to discharge or incapable of discharging his duties. The clause confers on the Commissioner certain options. I would like the reflections of the Minister for Administrative Services  (Mr McLeay)  on that. Whilst there may be a benefit to the member to be retired from the police force before obtaining the age of 60 years, under the proposed legislation, the Commissioner would have the sole discretion of transferring that person to a rank lower than the one he presently holds or he may transfer him to another position in the same rank. One notes that there is no provision for a member to appeal against such a decision by the Commissioner. Therefore, the Opposition feels that it would be in the best interests of all members for an appeal provision to be contained in the Act rather than the regulations. I might say that I have an utterly cynical regard for provisions which protect members of an association or a union being placed in regulations. I have had 20 years' experience with it, and I believe that the argument put forward for including clause 38 in the Bill simply was that the same provision already exists in the Australian Capital Territory Police Ordinance 1927 as amended. In my view, it is an archaic provision and one which the force could well do without. There is no need for it. 
Clause 39 of the Bill deals with retrenchment. We on this side of the House, and certainly police officers, I would think, take the firm view that this clause ought to be deleted in its totality. Again, the Commissioner has the sole discretion as to whether or not a member may be retrenched. It appears that no restrictions are placed on the Commissioner as to when or how he may embark upon such a course without consultation. There is also no provision for a member to appeal against the decision of the Commissioner, although a member may have recourse in some other industrial arena. I would like that situation explained, and we will see whether we can drag out an explanation during the Committee stage because it is important. Police officers and the Commonwealth Police Officers Association, feel very strongly that this clause ought to be deleted from the proposed legislation. 
I come back to the point that the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  raised. The clause should be deleted from the proposed legislation but, failing that, a protection clause in an appeal provision should be included in the Act rather than in the regulations. I agree with the honourable member for Denison. I ask the Minister for Administrative Services to explain why a provision should not be included in the Act. It is important in that if there is to be harmony in the force such a provision ought to be inserted in the Act, not in the regulations. I confess that I intend to give the Minister a rough time in the Committee stage on that clause. The Government's argument for including clause 39 in the Bill was that it is already contained within the provisions of the Australian Capital Territory Police Ordinance. I point out that although this sort of provision exists in respect of Australian Capital Territory police, the administration has never sought to enforce it. It is archaic, outdated, and it ought to be deleted. 
There is another area of the proposed legislation that I believe causes police officers less concern, and I refer to clause 37, which deals with the resignation of members. It is noted that three months notice must be given before a member may resign unless the Commissioner otherwise allows. We feel that three months is far too long and suggest that a period of 28 days is more in line with the provisions that at present exist in police forces throughout Australia. I would like some clarification of this point. Is the Government still standing fast on that provision or has it in fact reached agreement with the Police Officers Association and conceded that the period will be reduced to 28 days? 
I want to conclude on this simple note. I thought that the legislation proposed in 1975 was a logical, rational and effective way to amalgamate the police forces so as to give the community the efficiency and effectiveness it deserved, but that proposal was hypocritically opposed. It is a disgrace that in 1975 this Government when in Opposition was able to dupe, if you like, the police forces on the specious ground that once it got into office it would not amalgamate those forces. It is just another nail in this Government's coffin and an example of its utter lack of credibility. It is no credit at all to the Government or to many members in the police forces, who were gullible enough to fall for this promise. I support the concept of the legislation because I thought the amalgamation was warranted in 1975 and I think it is warranted in 1979. But I make this plea to the Minister: If the Government wants an efficient and effective police force it should ensure that the provisions for the welfare of the members in respect of promotions, appeals and transfers, whether they are written into the Act or made by way of regulations, safeguard the rights of the members. If that is done, the Government will have a much happier police force. This Bill will not give them that protection. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 27 March 1979: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the report in the London  Financial Times  of 1 March 1979 that executives of the Weisscredit Bank of Lugano, Switzerland, had been jailed for fraud after losing about 75m sterling of clients' money. 
Have the official inquiries concerning aspects of the operations of the company, to which his predecessor referred in his answer to question No. SS4 on 2 June 1977  (Hansard,  page 2S7 1 ), disclosed (a) the losses incurred by Australian residents and (b) the conviction imposed on  Mr Renzo  di Piramo, an Australian citizen. 
3 ) If not, will inquiries now be pursued into those aspects. 
Have the activities of this Bank or any of its directors, officers or subsidiaries been the subject of consideration by any officers of the Treasury with a view to proceedings being brought for breach of any applicable legislation; if not, why not. 
Did Treasury officers decide that no proceedings should be brought against this Bank or any of its directors, officers or subsidiaries; if so, what were the grounds for this decision. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 22 February 1 979: 
Did he state in answer to Question No. 2984  (Hansard,  24 November 1978, page 3561), that Australia is well provided with data on international market trends; if so, can he say why the Government acted so belatedly in trying to gain access to the European Economic Community to protect our primary interests. 
Was this failure attributable to the Government's neglect in monitoring and reading the international implications of the EEC 's agricultural policies. 
If the Government monitors international market trends, will he say who collates this information and will he also provide data on existing and future market trends affecting coal, gas, uranium, diamonds, copper, bauxite and iron ore. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 8 May 1979: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to media reports of comments made by  Mr Brian  Hunter, the liquidator of VIP Insurances Limited, particularly those relating to the reinsurance arrangements made between VIP and the Allstate Insurance Company of the United States of America. 
) If so, is it a fact that an illegal backdoor agreement was entered into between VIP and Allstate to hoodwink the Insurance Commissioner. 
If there were illegal arrangements perpetrated by Allstate, what arrangements have been made to see that other Australian-based insurers with reinsurance contracts with Allstate terminate these contracts. 
Has Allstate been (a) officially advised of any breach of the provisions of the Insurance Act and ( b ) classified as an unsatisfactory reinsurer for the future. 
What amendments to the Insurance Act will be introduced to ensure that illegal arrangements are not entered into in the future. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 8 May 1979: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to media reports of comments made by  Mr Brian  Hunter, the liquidator of VIP Insurances Limited, particularly those relating to the probability that 70,000 policy holders of the company will receive an initial return of only 20c in (he $ 1 of money owing to them. 
As VIP was approved as an insurer after an extensive investigation by the Insurance Commissioner and his staff, does he agree that this seal of approval encouraged people to take out insurance policies with VIP. 
As VIP was an approved company under the Insurance Act, will the Government consider providing funds to make up any deficit of the company as far as policy holders are concerned. 
asked the Minister for Productivity, upon notice, on 24 May 1 979: 
1 ) Is it a fact that less than IS per cent of patent applications of Australian origin are lodged by relatively large businesses and that most of the remainder are lodged by relatively small businesses; if so, will he include a representative of the relatively small business sector on the Industrial Property Advisory Committee. 
Has his attention been drawn to the commercial importance of the very large number of inventions which arc made which do not contain the quantum for a full patent; if so, will he rectify the position by adopting the recommendation of the Franki Committee and vary the quantum of invention required for a petty patent. 
Having regard to a change of practice of the Patents Office following a Court decision and a Patent Office decision with respect to applications for extension of time, will he take action to make section 160 of the Patents Act again available to applicants who might otherwise lose valuable industrial property rights due to reasons which may be beyond their control. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1 979: 
Further to his answer to question No. 1214 part (4)  (Hansard,  12 September 1978, page 887), what was the result of his Department's investigation. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 22Feburary 1979: 
Has the Government approved Esso's purchase of 15 per cent interest in the Yeelirrie uranium deposit from Western Mining Corporation; if so, why. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 9 May 1979: 
Has his attention been drawn to comments made by Professor Noel Hynes (The  Advertiser,  27 March 1979), a world authority on fresh-water biology, to the effect that Australia had neglected co-ordinated research on precious running water supplies. 
) If so, is it a fact as claimed by Professor Hynes that the Murray River was once a major fishery but no one really knows why this has declined. 
3 ) Will he ( a ) establish an institute for freshwater studies, such as the Great Lakes Laboratories in Ontario or the Freshwater Institute in Winnipeg and (b) initiate a major study of the entire Murray, as suggested by Professor Hynes. 
Is it a fact that stones in some parts of the Murray are covered with algae and fungus and that increases in algae growth can be expected in the future as organic materials, nitrates and phosphates are added to the river; if so, will intelligent choices or trade-off alternatives in the use of the Murray become unnecessarily difficult without a good pool of knowledge on these matters, as stated by Professor Hynes. 
Will he have a walking trail constructed along the length of the Murray River as suggested by another expert on the Murray,  Dr P.  S. Davis in his recent book  Man and the Murray. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 23 May 1 979: 
1 ) Has the Attorney-General's attention been drawn to an article published in the  Advertiser  of Saturday, 19 May 1 979, under the caption 'The Tug of Hate', relating to the International Year of the Child, a belief that it is time an international treaty was drawn up to deal with legal problems associated with child snatching, and a report that The Hague Conference on International Law has just held its first talks on the problem. 
If so, is the Australian Government represented on this body. 
If Australia is not represented, does it have observer status; if not, will it take steps to do so. 
If Australia does not intend seeking observer status, what are the reasons. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice, on 29 May 1 979: 
Why is he and the National Capital Development Commission supporting a proposal for the redevelopment of the Yarralumla Brickworks site by a private developer which will result in a considerable financial advantage to that developer following the expenditure of millions of dollars of taxpayers money to service and give access to the site. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 4 June 1979: 
1 ) Does he recall my repeated calls for official legislation to supervise and regulate the insurance broking industry, supported by calls from the industry itself, the underwriting industry, the Australian Law Reform Commission and the media. 
Has he put his submission to Cabinet in relation to the commitment to introduce legislation to this end, as reported in March 1979. 
Has the Insurance Council of Australia had extensive discussions with officers of his Department to this end. 
Is it a fact that regulation of the insurance industry can no longer safely be left to market forces, having regard to the total absence of any legislation to supervise or regulate the industry and the inexcusable escalation of broker company collapses during recent years. 
As this area has been the subject of searching examination for the last 5 years, when will the legislation be introduced. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 29 May 1979: 
1 ) Further to his answer to question No. 3340  (Hansard,  1 May 1979, pages 1712-3) relating to the Government Advisory Committee on Adelaide airline requirements, is he now able to say whether in the considerable input made by his Department at working group level or at any other stage, it was suggested or submitted in any form that (a) Adelaide should become an international airport, if so, when should this take place, (b) a master plan Tor the airport should be drawn up, (c) reserves should be made  or  areas adjacent to the airport to protect the public from noise intrusion, (d) areas at Aldinga should be obtained for a general aviation airport and at Two Wells/Virginia to establish a major airport, (e) international air services of limited range to, for example, Singapore, Fiji and New Zealand could be developed from the existing or expanded Adelaide airport and ( f) urgent action should be taken to secure land at Aldinga and Two Wells/Virginia. 
Has he completed his consideration of the recommendations of the Committee; if so, what were the recommendations and what action does he propose to take in respect of them. 
Will he now make the report of the Committee available to the Parliament as a matter of urgency; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 23 November 1978: 
1 ) Further to his answer to question No. 59  (Hansard,  24 October 1978, page 2235) why did Australia not join the International Energy Agency in November 1974. 
When did the Government begin its review of this decision, who is making the review and when will it be completed. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 28 May 1979:  ( 1 )Further to his answer to my question without notice on 21 March 1979  (Hansard,  page 948), has (a) the Bureau of Mineral Resources completed its evaluation and (b) his Department reached a decision on the Esso BHP claim, that Fortescue is a new field rather than an extension of the Halibut field. 
) If Fortescue is found to be a new field, is he able to indicate what additional revenue will accrue to Esso/BHP from this decision. 
If a decision has not yet been reached, what is the reason for the delay and when may a decision be expected. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 29 May 1979: 
1 ) Is it a Tact that on current indications there are only a Tew Australian coals ideally suited for conversion to liquid fuel, namely Greta coals in the Hunter Valley of New South Wales and coals like those at Millmerran in southern Queensland. 
) If so, do both coals have a high content of exinite and a low content of inertinite. 
Are they of bituminous rank and do they have a comparatively high content of hydrogen and give a high yield of volatiles. 
Is he able to state which companies hold the leases within these areas; if not, will he undertake to obtain the information from the respective Ministers in New South Wales and Queensland. 
-The Budget reeks of deception. Let me say to the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  that the sale of the Ranger deposit is a sell-out of the people's assets. I just make the observation that on world parity prices of $40 per lb for uranium, this asset is worth about $6,000m to $7,000m. 
He is wrong, I must confess. The value of the asset at $40 per lb is between $6,000m and $7,000m. The Government wants to sell out the people's asset. We on this side of the House are not prepared to concede that. 
This Budget is a clear confession of failure. On the question of unemployment, like many of the promises this Government has made since 1 974, it has a track record about as barren as the Sahara desert. This Budget clearly reflects the Government's total lack of initiative. Nowhere is this Government's incompetence and bankruptcy more evident than in the field of energy. The Government's mismanagement of the energy policy over the past  Vh  years has been a disaster. The answer is simple. The Government abdicated its responsibility in the critical area by leaving all major energy decisions to the oil companies. Let us be frank about this: This Government's sole interest in the oil industry has been to rip off as much money as it can to finance its ballooning deficit. In the current financial year Australian refineries will pay over $3,000m for crude oil which is produced in this country. Of this the Government will get about $2,223m. Consumers throughout the length and breadth of this country will carry that burden of the cost. 
One of the Government's first acts in 1976 after it came into office was to reject out of hand the major recommendations of the Royal Commission on Petroleum. Perhaps its most important recommendation was the establishment of an agency to regulate the oil industry. Apart from leaving major decisions to the oil companies the Government deliberately downgraded what little oil expertise it had within the Bureau of Mineral Resources and Government departments. It also deliberately reduced the monitoring of oil company activities. It massively slashed public spending on public transport. It was predictable after the events in Iran and the oil squeeze that international oil companies would play every trick in the book to maximise profits. They have done that for 130 years. The primary role of all corporations is to produce profits, not oil. Their responsibility is to their shareholders, not to the Australian Government. For instance, if a tanker of crude oil originally destined for Australia can be diverted to the United States of America or Europe for a much larger profit on the spot market why should oil companies overlook a windfall profit and supply Australia instead? What loyalty do companies owe to Australian governments, indeed to any government? 
While the rest of the industrialised world has been building its stocks of oil as a buffer against future dislocation of oil supply, in Australia oil stocks have fallen to a virtually non-existent level. The Government has no idea of exactly what our storage capacity is, what our stocks of each product held are. It is obliged to ask the oil companies. In March 1978 I asked the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  for details of sales of fuel oil outside the capital cities of Australia. The following September he replied: 
Detailed information concerning individual companies is not available to the Government. 
Not only is this information unavailable to the Government but also the Government has deliberately endeavoured to keep itself ignorant of vital information about the oil industry. The need for an adequate stockpile of fuel oil is critical. As a trading nation we are almost completely dependent on imported fuel oil for the shipping of our minerals and rural products. Much of industry depends on fuel oil. Hundreds of thousands of jobs in every section of industry depend on oil. Why should oil companies maintain an extensive stockpile of oil when their interests are economic and not strategic? In November 1977 the  Deputy  Prime Minister, the Minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr Anthony),  stated the position in one of his very few statements. He said: 
Prevailing forecasts indicate that a desirable timing for stockpile establishment, if this is necessary, would probably be the early to mid- 1 980s. 
As with everything else, this Government is determined to do too little too late. Another option repeatedly rejected by the Government, yet taken by many overseas countries, to secure oil supplies has been direct governmenttogovernment negotiations with the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries. This action circumvents profiteering by oil companies and is, as expected, bitterly opposed by them. Two years ago, when it was already clear that security of oil supply would be critical, I asked the Deputy Prime Minister whether the Government would take action to diversify future sources of imported crude oil for Australia. His pious reply in September was as follows: 
Australia already imports crude oil from a number of countries. It is not the Government's policy to become directly involved in commercial import or export transactions or to give any direction to Australian commercial interests as to where they should source imports. 
-In 1977. The Government deliberately ignored the possibility of trade deals with both Iraq and China although I noted recently that the Government is wavering on the issue of government-to-government negotiations, no doubt stung by the urgent realities of the situation facing Australia. I noted the recent response to this proposition by  Mr Froggart,  General Manager of the Shell company. He warned this Government, indeed any government, what would happen if attempts were made to deny oil companies their privileged role as sole marketing negotiators. Let me make a number of observations on that report. Firstly, many years ago in 1920 one of the most rewarding books on crude oil that I have ever read was published. It was entitled  The World Struggle for Oil  and was written by a Frenchman called Pierre de la Trameyre. He passed this very simple observation: 
The struggle for oil is no longer a rivalry between Trusts: it is a struggle between nations. 
For almost eight decades we have failed to grasp what is a very simple fact. The second observation I make is this: OPEC has repeatedly warned consuming governments to police multinational oil companies' marketing and distribution rake-offs. They need to be more effective and efficient to regulate and monitor, particularly the profits made by oil companies. My third observation is that we ought to have noted that Mexico has already entered into negotiations to trade off between West Germany and Canada oil for nuclear technology. Not three weeks ago the  Australian Financial Review  stated: 
A reduction in the proportion of crude sold to the big oil companies, which buy nearly three-fifths of Venezuela's exports, and a search for new markets, with attempts to sell more oil directly to consumers . . . 
Efforts to sell directly to consumers such as North American power companies will be intensified, possibly involving taking equity stakes in such companies in exchange for oil. 
I make a fourth observation: The Japanese Government is becoming increasingly involved with OPEC to ensure continuity of supply. My fifth observation is that governments now are and will increasingly become, involved in international commodity price negotiations- they might not like it but it is inevitable- for minerals, rural products and, inevitably, energy. Such policies can be co-ordinated and integrated only if governments elect to provide the leadership necessary to make them effective, efficient and successful in the nation's interests. If this Government runs away from such a planned approach, I regret to say that crisis will be the order of the day in this country for a long time to come. The high water mark of the failure of energy policy was the statement by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in June of this year. Little was new, much was overdue. The statement was precisely what one would expect from a government that has shed itself of responsibility for energy matters only to be caught with its pants well and truly down. On the question of oil supply the Prime Minister said: 
The Government expects oil companies to obtain imported oil supplies as necessary, to meet Australian requirements. 
Presumably that was a plea to oil companies, not a threat, because he went on to promise the companies virtually an open go on what price they charge for petroleum. In other words, the new initiative is to allow oil companies even more scope to rip off Australian motorists. 
Let us consider an issue that I have raised in this place repeatedly- octane ratings. Another so-called new initiative is to vary the octane rating of super grade petrol. Three years ago the Royal Commission on Petroleum and later the Government's own National Energy Advisory Committee recommended that the octane rating of standard grade petrol be raised from 89 to 92 and that there be a larger price differential between standard and super grade petrol. In a Press release in June 1978 the Minister for National Development supported the recommendation. The Caltex company recently adopted the recommendation. But the more powerful oil companies such as Shell opposed it because it did not suit their marketing structure and instead opted for lowering the rating of super grade petrol from 98 to 97. The Prime Minister, predictably enough, capitulated to the large oil companies, again against the national interest. 
Let us consider the question of monitoring the oil companies' activities. Another of the Prime Minister's new initiatives is for the Minister for National Development to write to oil companies requesting that they provide data on supply, consumption, stocks and export of petroleum products. I suggest that it is a disgrace that an Australian Government has not closely monitored this information before. It is a disgrace that a government has to rely on oil companies to provide the information. No matter how unpalatable it may be, the Australian Government sooner or later will have to establish its own organisation to regulate and monitor oil company activities, as suggested by the Royal Commission on Petroleum and as practised in many Western countries. The Government refuses to face the fact which was set out so well by the Royal Commission in its fourth report in the following terms: 
In its socio-economic context motor spirit, as a staple consumer product, resembles electricity town gas, water supply, postal and communication services, meat, milk and bread supplies. All these areas have acquired distinctive forms of regulation. 
Yet another of the Prime Minister's so-called new' initiatives concerns rationing and on this point he said: 
The Government will also ensure that any allocation schemes implemented by companies follow sensible and fair practices across the industry and are co-ordinated with State and Territory Government emergency schemes. 
For  y/i  years the Government has bowed to oil company pressure to stall proposals to reform unfair practices in the oil industry. The present shortage has allowed oil companies to axe competition in the retail side of the industry. They are using this opportunity to the fullest and we cannot blame them. They have 1 30 years experience behind them. In spite of anything that this Government might say about the fairness of allocation, the record shows that the will of the oil companies is always allowed to prevail. If it really wanted to inject fair play into the industry it ought to have introduced the Maryland-based legislation which was promised last year by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife).  I received an answer today from the Minister stating that the Government may finally act on that promise. 
I have referred to the use of liquefied petroleum gas as a motor fuel on over, I think, 14 occasions in this House. A statement by this Government exhorted motorists to use LPG as a motor fuel which obviously impressed many people who were unaware of the Government's track record. However, they soon discovered that this Government was as ill-prepared on this aspect of energy policy as it was on all others. There is a lack of distribution outlets for LPG, especially in the city. There is a long waiting list for LPG conversions- up to two years in South Australia- and problems with safety in the absence of a supervisory body and appropriate standards. The Government has no excuse for not being prepared. Rex Connor's royal commission provided this Government with a comprehensive 250-page report on LPG three years ago and it was supported by the Government's National Energy Advisory Committee. In March 1 977 1 asked the Minister for National Resources about the use of LPG and its problems. On the question of standards, I specifically asked whether the Government would consider the adoption of propane specifications along the lines of the United States Natural Gas Processors Association specification HD5. He replied merely that the contents of the royal commission report were under consideration. A year later I ask the same question. The reply was that the report of the interdepartmental committee which was studying the royal commission report was expected to be considered by the Government in the near future. A year later the Prime Minister stated: 
The Minister Tor Transport will initiate discussions with the State and Territory Ministers to ensure that proper safeguards are instituted . . . 
Might I suggest that the issue is still unresolved. 
Another 'new' initiative of the Prime Minister was that the Government would give the Bureau of Mineral Resources a new and upgraded role. The facts are that the Government has so squeezed the BMR in the last  3*6  years that at one stage its professional staff were almost in revolt. The NEAC noted that the assessment of petroleum resources by the BMR was being severely retarded by a lack of expertise, statistical data and methodology. The Government's response was to slash the BMR funds, and we can now only speculate on what benefits 
Australia might have gained from an expanded petroleum survey. 
In relation to exploration, about which the people opposite like to talk, this Government still continues to perpetuate the myth that its oil pricing policies are revitalising oil exploration. The figures on the number of wells drilled in Australia show that this is not so because only 52 exploration wells v/ere drilled in 1978 and fewer than 60 are expected to be drilled this year. In 1978, over 7,000 wells were drilled in Canada and 48,000 in the United States. The present problem with the Government's policies is simply that the oil companies are making considerable profits from oil production in Australia and they stand to make much more in the near future under this Government's policies. The Government's policy is to hope that oil companies will spend some of the money on exploration. Companies cannot be criticised for making what is for them the best investment. It is the Government, not the companies, which has the responsibility to ensure that profits are spent on oil exploration. The Government must introduce fiscal measures to ensure that oil companies plough sufficient of their profits into oil exploration. In Canada the level of taxation on oil company profits accruing from any price rises is adjusted so that the more a company ploughs back into exploration the fewer cents in the dollar it pays in tax. It has long been obvious that such a powerful incentive for oil companies to use their profits on oil exploration is essential for Australia. Summing up the situation far more effectively than I could ever do, Alastair Cooke three weeks ago on the Australian Broadcasting Commission in the  Voice from America  program, said: 
Well, the first question the people of  Barketown,  Kentucky, put to  Mr Carter  was right on the button.  Mr President,  why don't you try to do something about the big oil companies that are making so much profit.  Mr Carter  said, ' 1 don't want to mislead you all just to get a round of applause. I believe that the profit motive is the best incentive to provide the services we need, but we've also seen the oil companies misuse the profits they have made. If they take the profits and invest them back in the exploration and. production of additional oil and gas in our country, then I Ve no objection to their profits being made. But what they have done is to buy restaurants and motel chains, they tried to buy circuses, they bought department stores, they've taken profits from oil and gasoline and not put them back into the ground. 
He finishes up with this telling indictment: 
Why hasn't he said this before. In all the wordy hassle over whether a windfall profit tax means a profits tax or an excise tax on revenues nobody in the Government has put it on the line as simply and forcefully as that. The people cheered. No wonder. 
This Government- as we would if we were in government- has to accept that painful decisions are inevitable and that the sooner they are taken the less discomfort they will cause in the long run. If democratic countries such as Australia are to cope with these problems they must take the people into their confidence. So far, this Government 's energy policies have attempted to deceive and to buy time before the next electionnothing more nor less. The tragedy for the Australian nation is that sooner or later delayed action will have to be paid back with interest. This country has to face up to some very severe problems in the years ahead and there is nothing more important than the energy question. Since 1975 I have repeatedly said in this House that what is needed is not a bipartisan approach to energy but for this House to set up its own committee of inquiry on energy. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on15 August 1978: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the recent International Energy Agency report which confirms authoritative predictions of a world liquid fuel crisis at about the year 1985. 
) Is he able to say whether the Parliaments of the United States of America, the European Economic Community and the United Kingdom all have set up parliamentary committees to monitor and report upon their respective countries' fuel and energy needs. 
As the critical problems of fuel and energy will be no less acute in this country, will he follow the example of other advanced Western countries and support the establishment of a Joint Standing Committee of the Parliament to inquire into and report upon Australia's fuel and energy needs. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 21 February 1979: 
I ) Further to his answer to question No. 2388  (Hansard,  14 November 1978, page2796), what is the justification for the transport cost of bringing imported oil to Australia being included as a component in the price which domestic producers receive for locally produced oil. 
Is it a fact that the transport cost of imported oil is now a component determining the price paid for all domestic oil. 
If so, and in view of the allegations made in the Royal Commission on Petroleum on transfer pricing, will he order an independent review of the cost of transporting imported oil to Australia. 
Is he able to state which companies are involved in shipping oil to Australia and what proportion of their ownership is held by oil companies. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 8 May 1979: 
1 ) Is it a fact that it is now six months since petrol retailers expressed support for his package of measures to regulate their industry and it is now two months since 22 February 1979 when he indicated his anxiety to reach a conclusion on his proposals as soon as possible. 
2 ) Has he received a report from his Department on similar United States of America schemes. 
Have all states replied to the Commonwealth request for comments on his proposals. 
If so, when will legislation be introduced into the Parliament to give statutory effect to his proposals, and to protect retailers and the public from the oil companies. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, beyond question, the achievements in the past decade by the Labor Government in South Australia have been the envy of this nation. This record will be wrecked unless the people fully understand the disastrous impact of this Federal Government's much-vaunted federalism policy. During the next 12 months to two years, it will have a devastating effect upon the economies of all States but in particular South Australia. This is the real issue. Next Saturday the people of South Australia will be given a choice. Can they trust the Corcoran Labor Government? Can they trust the Fraser-Tonkin team? 
Government supporters- Yes. 
-Ah! I suggest that they have had enough of Fraser. Let us have a look at the policies in this critical area.  Mr Tonkin  said not a word about it in his policy speech.  Mr Fraser's  policies are clear. Federalism means more taxes. At least  Mr Corcoran  faces the issue. Two weeks ago  Mr Tonkin  said: 
The Liberal Party won't impose double taxation. 
We have no plans for a State tax. 
With economic development we can create new jobs, we can put more money in people 's pockets. 
What nonsense! We can attribute as much credibility to that statement as the nation attributes to the Fraser commitments. When it comes to honouring promises his commitments are about as barren as the Sahara Desert. Where does  Mr Tonkin  stand on the issue of federalism? Does he support it or oppose it? 
Let us see what the Corcoran Government is committed to.  Mr Corcoran  said: 
We will not cut back on Government sponsored capital works which provide jobs in private industry. 
At this year's Premiers Conference the Fraser Government cut the loan funds available to this State by $60m. 
I will go to Canberra to negotiate what share South Australia will get of the tax collected from us all. 
No doubt  Mr Fraser  will try to impose his new Federalism - 
-This is a quotation,  Mr Deputy Speaker. 
No. It is a quotation from  Mr Corcoran.  He said: 
No doubt  Mr Fraser  will try to impose his new federalism and attempt to force the States into imposing an income tax surcharge. 
Let me canvass the track record of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and of the Federal Liberal Party in this critical area. I shall analyse exactly what it means and what its impact will be. From the outset, Fraser federalism was a fraud because it was designed to squeeze the States to force them to raise a second income tax, while at the same time preserving Commonwealth expenditure. The decline in Commonwealth funds for the States is clearly demonstrated by Table No. 3 of this year's Budget Paper No. 7. During the four years of this Government, total funds to the States and local government authorities have been increased by 5.6 per cent, 1 1.9 per cent, 4.8 per cent and 6.6 per cent respectively. These increases were far below the rates of inflation and have meant that every year there has been a substantial cut in funds to the States and local government. It is sometimes argued that the Commonwealth has been more generous with the States than it has been with itself. This claim is totally false. Commonwealth outlays on Commonwealth functions during the four years I have mentioned have increased by 12.5 percent, 18.1 percent, 10.5 per cent and 10.6 per cent respectively. These increases should be compared with the percentage increases in grants to States and local government. I seek leave to have a table incorporated in  Hansard.  The Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner)  agreed earlier to its incorporation. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="115131197909125_21_0.jpg"></graphic>

-I thank the House. These figures demonstrate conclusively that Commonwealth funds to State governments have been substantially cut under the Fraser Government and have been cut more severely than funds available for Commonwealth functions. No doubt there has been a deliberate policy decision to force the States to raise a second income tax. All of this was known to the Commonwealth from the very beginning. In a paper put to Cabinet in January 1976 by the then Treasurer seating out the effect of federalism, the Treasury had this to say about the new tax sharing formula: 
The position will, of course, change and markedly once the personal income tax is fully subject to indexation. Leaving aside the possibility of discretionary changes in income tax rates an indexed personal income tax would, over the longer term at least, almost certainly yield less in terms of growth than the personal grants formula. 
The consequences of the formula were also spelt out by the Treasury in these words: 
This could mean that, to simply maintain what they had now, the States may be forced to increase the surcharges on income tax which they would have to levy under their own legislation. This should be summarised as the Commonwealth handing over the dirty work of increasing taxes to the States. 
Right from the outset, the Commonwealth knew the consequences of its own policy. The Government is committed to it and  Mr Tonkin  is committed to it. As it turns out, general revenue has been held up to some degree only by the existence of a States grants formula which was devised by the previous Labor Government and which has been in operation for four years because the States insisted on a certain guaranteed minimum. Had it not been for the Labor Government's formula, grants to the States would have been even less. That is conceded by every State Premier. The Prime Minister has been keen to get rid of this formula because it prevents him from really cutting back funds to the States. The formula expires next year and the Fraser Government has indicated that it will not renew it. In a letter to the Premier of Tasmania dated 12 July 1979, the Prime Minister stated: 
I must reiterate that the Commonwealth considers that the current guarantee formula is too generous, and makes the obvious point that any proposal for continuation in its present form would not be acceptable. I would also wish to reiterate that an important aspect of the tax sharing arrangements is the emphasis on responsibility for the States, including responsibility for raising revenue themselves in line with their own priorities. 
That means that general revenue will drop even further. It is important to note that general revenue was supposed to remain high under Fraser federalism. It would replace specific purpose grants which were likely to be absorbed into the general revenue formula. To date no specific purpose grants have been absorbed into that formula. The Government has merely cut back specific purpose grants to the States without making any compensating adjustment to general purpose revenue. On top of all of that, the Fraser Government is pursuing a vendetta against 
South Australia. This can be clearly demonstrated by the increase in payments to the States and local government in the current year. I have already referred to the overall increase in 1979-80, which is 6.6 per cent. That 6.6 per cent is an average of the increase in all the States. However South Australia's increase is only 4.4 per cent. Let us have a look at the other States. 
You had better answer this if you have to follow me. In New South Wales the increase is 7.5 per cent, in Victoria 6.5 per cent, in Queensland 7 per cent, in Western Australia 5.8 per cent, in Tasmania 5.6 per cent and in South Australia 4.8 per cent. No wonder the South Australian Government is going to have a difficult time with its Budget as this Government has clearly singled it out for particularly rough treatment. Under these circumstances a State income tax, in my view, seems inevitable unless the Corcoran Government receives a strong mandate to stand up to this Government. If the Liberals are elected, they will be forced to go along with Fraser's policy of introducing a second income tax. Where do they stand? Do they support this Government, do they oppose it or are they mute on it? This is a spurious deal. It is a policy based on deceit. This is a policy of fraud. It has been rejected. The federalism policy has been rejected by both governments and people decisively in the States of New South Wales and Tasmania. The Government's policy is not accepted in any other Liberal State, whether it be Queensland, Western Australia or Victoria. I can hope only that the people of South Australia get the message on Saturday because they will pay a severe price if they do not. 
Let me conclude by saying that if the assurances of the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs are as good as the assurances of this Government since 1975 then we cannot place very much credibility on them. If the people of South Australia are particularly wise they will treat them with the greatest sense of suspicion. If there is to be one disastrous act by the Government in South Australia, whether it be the Corcoran Government or a Tonkin government, it will be an increase in the price of natural gas. Now people in South Australia ought to take it well into account - 
You and your Government have made a lot of promises. You have not had one credible act in your track record yet. Why should the people of South Australia trust the 
Government on this one? I certainly do not and I sincerely trust that the people of South Australia do not. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 29 August 1 979: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the Prime Minister's statement on energy of 27 June 1 979 when he said that in the long run, significant savings in the use of energy might be effected by means of improved, more efficient urban mass transit systems. 
What has been the total expenditure by the Federal Government on public transport in each State in the last5 years. 
What steps will he take to improve public transport and what additional funds will he make available to the States to fulfil the Prime Minister's promise. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 28 September 1978: 
1 ) Is he able to say whether the head of the United States Federal Trade Commission Bureau of Competition,  Mr Alfred  Dougherty, proposes to urge Congress to impose ceilings on the amount of coal and uranium properties that the larger oil companies can own, as was reported in the  Financial Review  of 19 September 1978. 
Has his attention been drawn to the fact that an increasing number of Australia's coal and uranium reserves are passing into the hands of oil companies. 
Does the Government have any mechanism which monitors oil company penetration into alternative energy resources; if so, what has been the amount of known (a) coal and (b) uranium reserves owned by oil companies during each of the last 10 years. 
If there is no mechanism, what is the justification for this position in view of the United States experience with oil company monopolisation of resources. 
Do the estimates for his Department show that the Petroleum and Mineral Investment group is to be abolished in 1 978-79; if so, why is this being done. 
What were the functions of this group. 
As the Bureau of Statistics is no longer to monitor foreign ownership levels, does this indicate that the Government has adopted an open-slather policy towards oil company use of Australian energy resources. 
Is there now any section in the Australian Government that will monitor foreign ownership of Australian resources. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 8 May 1 979: 
1 ) Is it a fact that parity price of indigenous crude oil is increased relative to that of Arabian Light by inclusion of a quality differential component. 
Is it also a fact that Moonie oil, which is similar in quality to oil from the Kingfish Field, Australia's main producing field, was regarded as being about 1 5 per cent more valuable than Arabian Light by the Tariff Board in 1 965. 
If so, does the inclusion of the quality differential in price calculations mean that Australian consumers are already paying a surcharge for Australian oil because local oil happens to be of high quality. 
If the position is as stated, is this contrary to the Government's policy of not including surcharges, which are related to quality, in price calculations. 
Given that Australian consumers pay about $260 million for each $1 per barrel component of the quality differential, what surcharge do Australians already pay for local oil. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 6 June 1 979: 
1 ) Is it a fact that since the 1 973 OPEC price increase and the continuing escalation of world oil prices the oil bearing shales in Australia are receiving renewed interest, and are large enough to be financially viable. 
Is the Rundle Queensland deposit, situated between Gladstone and Rockhampton on the coast, financially viable. 
Are company estimates of reserves of about 2,000 million barrels recoverable (i.e. similar to the oil left in Bass Strait). 
Are the prospecting leases held by 2 Australian companies, Central Pacific Minerals NL and Southern Pacific Petroleum NL, on a 50 per cent each basis. 
If so, are these 2 companies big enough to develop the deposit; if not, are they trying to find a partner from the United States of America who is prepared to put up $2 billion. 
What steps does the Government intend to take to ensure Australian control of this important deposit is protected. 
Are there a number of other small oil shale deposits in both Queensland and New South Wales; if so, would it need development of either of the deposits referred to in part (2) for the extraction equipment to become available. 
Is there a large shield of oil bearing shale in Queensland which is too deep for development by present technology and at present oil prices. 
If so, if one of the thermal extraction processes becomes operational will this shield become a viable source of crude oil. 
Where are these small number of oil shale deposits located, what is the estimated reserves on each and what is the name of the companies holding the prospecting leases in both States. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 21 August 1979: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the concern of the Life Insurance Commissioner expressed in his 1978 Annual Report, for the need to limit the investments of authorised insurers in related companies or with related or associated persons. 
If so, would the provisions of the still to be proclaimed section 10 of the Life Insurance Amendment Act 1977 afford the Commissioner the necessary power to regulate and therefore limit such investments. 
Does the failure of the Government to proclaim section 10 of the Act mean that the Government does not share the concern of the Life Insurance Commissioner; if not, why has the Government not proclaimed sections 6, 7, 10, 13 and 35 of the Act, despite the fact that the Act was assented to on 18 May 1977. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 2 1 August 1979: 
1 ) Did he in answer to part (4) of my question No. 2568  (Hansard,  2 1 November 1 978, page 3151) state that he had held discussions with the relevant New South Wales and Victorian Ministers on 1 September 1978 on the need for early acceptance by their Governments of the preliminary draft of amendments to the River Murray Waters Agreements so that discussions might be commenced as soon as possible on a new Agreement and matching legislation. 
) If so, on what dates have the discussions been held. 
If the States of Victoria and /or New South Wales are not reluctant to proceed with the Agreement of October 1976, as he stated in answer to part (2) of question No. 2568, why has legislation not been forthcoming in the last 3 years and precisely what has been the nature and purpose of discussions on this matter over the last 3 years. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on -22 August 1979: 
1 ) At what stage of the criminal proceedings against Keith Compton Gale did he cease to be a member of the Executive Council of the Australia-Japan Trade Law Foundation. 
To what extent does the Government subsidise the Foundation. 
It is with pleasure that I support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis).  I will pass one constructive observation on the remarks of the honourable member for Calare  (Mr MacKenzie).  I find it very odd that the honourable member should denigrate the Australian Labor Party's achievements in education between 1972 and 1975. He was not a member of the Parliament in those days but for his information it was our government which, with the support of his party and in defiance of the Tories opposite, was able to get the Schools Commission legislation on to the statute book after 23 years of Liberal decline and neglect. I think that the honourable member ought to do his homework. He has certainly failed in that respect. It is obvious that he was not a member of this Parliament between 1972 and 1975. 
The overall effect of the Budget is to reduce the living standards of the great majority of the population. According to the Budget Papers, prices will increase by more than 10 per cent while wages will increase by 9 per cent to  91/2  per cent. In other words, prices will rise more than wages and the real purchasing power of ordinary people will obviously fall. There will also be an increase in taxation for most Australians. The Budget assumes that the pay-as-you-earn taxpayer will pay 15 per cent more in taxation this year than he paid last year. Wages will rise, as indicated in the Budget Papers, by 9 per cent to 91/2 per cent. Clearly people will be worse off. Not only will their real wages be reduced but also their real disposable take-home pay will be further reduced by an increase in the proportion of their income that they pay in tax. This is compounded by the crude oil levy, which is a massive sleight of hand by this Government's propaganda machine. It is a tax by stealth. The Federal Government is to collect $2, 500m in taxes from motorists and the consuming public. 
I agree that this nation is plagued with the twin problems of inflation and unemployment. However, the measures of this Government with its supposed intention to cut inflation have, by virtue of the inflation rate during its period of office, provided the strongest argument against its policies. Let us examine the basis of the Government's thrust. The Government blames and has consistently blamed inflation on the union led wage push. I ask honourable members opposite- I would like an answer- how one can account for the too often overlooked anomaly which occurred in 1950. In that year excessive inflation emerged. In fact, it was the highest in this country 's history. 
It was 25 per cent. That was in the Menzies era. But the concurrent growth in wages was small. I would like an answer to that point. I hope that 1 can develop the thesis tomorrow that inflation is not caused by a wage push. 
I do not know about that. There are forces in the community other than wages that cause inflation. 
MrAldred-Suchas? 
The honourable member ought to look at the corporate sector and those who control the wealth. After all, most ordinary wage earners are not in the gratuitous position of being able to manipulate the money market. Their sole task in life is to make ends meet. They have very little excess, or fat, to speculate on the money market. Those are the people to whom we ought to direct our attention in the course of fighting inflation. As I said, 1950 had the lowest wage increase ever recorded and yet the highest inflation rate. 
Let us look at some of the ideological hangups of this Government. The inflation burst of 197 1-72 was, it is true, caused by a combination of wage push inflation and imported inflation. The Government has a fixation with wage push inflation. During the Labor Government's term of office the then Opposition rubbished, obviously to good effect, the notion of imported inflation. A very distinguished American economist, Harry Johnson, explained the mechanics of the transfer of inflation throughout the world at that time but this explanation was discredited by the Tories opposite. It is now acceptable, of course. They are now in government They find, oddly enough, that they are inflicted with the very same disease. I hear no interjections from honourable members opposite. They have gone silent all of a sudden. 
-I am grateful for that. In 1975 this Government's campaign reflected the simple belief that if people threw out Labor and turned on the lights all would be well throughout the land. It did not happen in 1975. It did not happen in 1 977. It has still not happened and it is not likely to happen if current policies remain. Let us take another look at the distortion of Tory ideology. Honourable members opposite claim to head a free enterprise non-interventionist government. 
Debate interrupted. 
-Last night, when speaking in support of the amendment moved by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis),  I was making the point that the Liberal Party claims to head a free enterprise non-interventionist government, that it leaves resources allocation to the market place, and conversely that government interventionist policies are socialist policies. The simple fact is that in many ways the Liberals do intervene to distort the market. They are forced to. They intervene with discriminatory tariffs, quotas, bylaws, regulations, tax schedules, concessions, grants, allowances, merger approvals, contracts, financial arrangements and marketing arrangements. The examples I have cited only scratch the surface. Governments are and will increasingly become involved in a whole range of corporate sector issues including international commodity price negotiations for minerals, energy and rural products. Such policies can be coordinated and integrated only if governments elect to provide the leadership that is necessary to make them effective and efficient. 
The inflationary impact of this Government's tax rip-off has greatly affected  Mr and Mrs Average.  Inflation is imposed upon the people of this country by a government which is prepared to allow the more wealthy element in our society, those who are the most powerful, the most resourceful and regrettably often the most unscrupulous, to prosper under it. In the interim, the rest of our society suffers while inflation, induced by this Government's policies, multiplies. Undoubtedly the most serious social consequence of this Government's policies is growing unemployment. One is reminded of the cartoon in which a newly unemployed worker is congratulated on joining a very special group making a major contribution to the war against inflation. On being presented with a certificate of unemployment he is told that he can be very proud of having been chosen as one of a special group playing such a crucial role in the economic fight against inflation. Commenting upon the certificate the unemployed worker received, he remarked: 'Gosh, it's beautiful. Wait until my family sees it'. Somebody, some section of society, is obliged to pay the price and under a Liberal Government it always must be the poor and the underprivileged. 
Whilst the family allowance has been frozen at the same level for three years prices have escalated by 30 per cent, spending on education has been reduced, child care services have been starved of funds and housing has become dearer and dearer. That is what happens when the Liberals tinker with our economy for 3Vi years. As Professor Sumner-Miller is wont to put it: 'Why is this so?' It is worth remembering that the great mass of our people who put their trust in the traditional order-that is, the innocent and the unworldly, all those who undertake useful and productive tasks but do not know how to manipulate money, the elderly who hope to live on what they earned in the past- are doomed to suffer under inflation. 
Australia is not alone in the inflation stakes. We ought to look at what has happened in the United States. It is a classic example. Last month a gruesome milestone was reached in the great inflation debacle of the 1970s. The number of millionaires in the United States passed 500,000. Less than a decade ago there were fewer than 100,000. Inflation alone comes nowhere near explaining how the very richest among us have quintrupled their numbers in so incredibly short a time. I well recall that in the debate on the securities and companies legislation in 1 975 it was mentioned that in the United States in that year 70 per cent of the corporate sector was controlled by 1 per cent of the population. During the 1970s the average pay of the United States factory worker actually declined in real terms and the poor, both in Australia and in the United States, were even worse off. What is being experienced both in Australia and the United States is a revolt but not by radicals against the pillars of society but, to put it more bluntly, by the rich against the poor, as John Kenneth Galbraith said. 
I regret to say that the Australian people have failed to grasp how inflation rises disproportionately among them. Just who do they blame for it? They blame, for example, the petrol crisis on the oil companies or the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries. Their recreational driving in fact accounts for only a minute fraction of Australia's total energy consumption. The manufacture of carcinogenic chemicals and herbicides accounts for much more. Australian people fail to comprehend- they are given little assistance in understanding- that the fundamental structure, the distribution of income and wealth, is at the root of inflation. But I qualify this by saying that most people are not spendthrifts who indulge in wasteful buying to feed inflation. They cannot afford to be. The fact is that the majority of Australians have little influence on inflation because they cannot give up the basics of clothing, food and shelter in the national interest. 
In the United States the top 7 per cent of families receive more of the total income than the bottom half of the United States population and the percentage of the hold that the tiny minority has on discretionary income- money left over after the basics- is even greater; possibly as high as 50 per cent to 60 per cent. In this country the top 10 per cent of families get 36.5 per cent of total net wealth and the bottom 50 per cent get 15 per cent. The poorest 25 per cent of American society get barely 5 per cent of the total income yet in Australia the poorest get about 4.5 per cent of the total income. Thus cutting off the crumbs will not cure the ills of our economy especially when 10 per cent of our society, the most affluent, have control over 25 per cent to 36 per cent of total income. The message is simple: Until we as a nation stop blaming ourselves collectively for inflation there will be no solution. Let me quote from a very telling article published in the United States a month ago on the panacea to control inflation. It commenced by saying that we should work towards, firstly, placing a ceiling on selected prices, from hospital costs to gas, oil and basic food items such as bread and milk; secondly, we ought to expand our supplies of basic commodities such as housing by way of selected mortgage assistance, conservation of synthetic fuels, the introduction of consumer co-operatives, family farm aid and more direct marketing of food; and thirdly, we should establish new public- not governmentinstitutions such as energy corporations and health maintenance institutions to force the big corporations to compete both openly and more efficiently. Something has to be tried in the light of the remark of the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  in the Budget that inflation will be over 10 per cent before the end of the year. Inflation, without doubt, next to this Government, is the greatest destroyer of security in Australia. Ernest Hemingway summed up the position far more effectively than I could when he said: 
The first panacea for a mismanaged nation is inflation of the currency; the second is war. Both bring a temporary prosperity. Both bring a permanent ruin. But both are the refuge of political and economic opportunists. 
Let me conclude by making an observation on the debate earlier today, if I am permitted to do so. One of the problems of inflation in today's society is the manipulation of the corporate sector. We spend an inordinate amount of time - 
I ask the Acting Treasurer whether he is aware of a Queensland based tax avoidance scheme known as the 'Flowerland scheme', which advertises that, for a minimum investment of $2,500, $7,500 can be claimed as a full taxation deduction. Is he aware that the additional $5,000 is contributed by the promoters of the scheme by way of a loan, yet the investor claims a full deduction? Will he provide details of the scheme to the House? What action does he intend to take to prevent this massive tax avoidance scheme? 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 13 September 1979: 
1 ) Is it a fact that in the 1977-78 taxation year, wage and salary earners subjected to PA YE taxation, paid $62.8 per cent of total income tax revenue; if so, was this an increase over the figure for the previous income tax year. 
What was the revenue in each case. 
If there was a percentage increase was it due to tax avoidance activities; if not was it due to the Government's taxation policy. 
The Minister representing the Attorney-General would have noted the recent speech of the Commissioner of the Australian Federal Police on the inadequacy of the present criminal law enforcement system in Australia. Is the Minister aware of the alarming increase in organised and serious crime in Australia and the international problems caused by overseas organised crime operating in this country and Australian organised crime operating overseas? Will the Minister give urgent consideration to the establishment of a national crime commission to monitor crime on a national level and to provide advice to governments about measures to overcome the problem and the resources needed to do that? Will he raise this suggestion at the next meeting of the Standing Committee of Attorneys-General? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 21 August1979: 
) Has the Minister's attention been drawn to an article in the  Australian  of Wednesday, 18 July 1979 which reported that some senior academics and scientists believe that Commonwealth post-graduate awards are not sufficient to attract or hold post-graduate researchers and that the brightest of these will inevitably be attracted overseas, particularly to the United States of America where research opportunities are expected to abound soon. 
If so, has the Minister also noted that  Dr George  Fenton, in the same article, was reported as saying that he was finding it difficult to obtain post-graduates to join his research team, which is engaged on solar desalination work at Sydney University, because potential students cannot see their way clear to support themselves on a salary of approximately $4,200 per annum. 
3 ) Does the Minister share this concern about the ' braindrain' of our young scientists; if so, what action will the Government take to retain our brightest young graduates in Australia; if not, why not. 
Is it a fact that the salary for post-graduate students is only $4,200 per annum; if so, when will the Government raise post-graduate awards to a more realistic level. 
asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice, on 2 1 August 1979: 
Has bis attention been drawn to the collapse of the Travel Agency, Sea-Air Travel (Glenelg South Australia) Pty Ltd affecting 23 persons who stand to lose most of the sum of about $1,800 that each paid for his or her tour to China. 
In view of the Press report of the comment by the provisional liquidator,  Mr J.  H. Heard, that numerous people who had booked tours with Sea-Air Travel Pty Ltd could lose money does he recall his responses to a question by the late Frank Stewart on 12 October 1978 that the early indication from the Travel and Tourist Industry Advisory Council is that it did not favour continuation of a Bill to register Travel Agents  (Hansard,  pages 1798-9). 
Has self-regulation by the industry failed to give people the security to which they are entitled; if so, will he take immediate steps to re-introduce the Travel Agents Bill 1975. 
asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice, on 28 August 1 979: 
Has his attention been drawn to a submission by the Small Business Development Council of NSW to the Campbell Inquiry, which calls for the establishment of a new financial institution, namely, Small Business Investment Companies, to provide loans, equity investment, broking and advice to small businesses. 
If so, will he have his Department investigate this submission before the Campbell Inquiry is completed with a view to determining the viability of the proposal. 
If not, will he ensure that he is acquainted with this submission, bearing in mind the importance of small businesses to this country, in that they employ 56 per cent of the private workforce. 
Was the Minister for Industrial Relations aware, when his staff was distributing the Staples letter to journalists, that they were in fact doing so? 
-In answer to the Minister, in my view the present incumbent of the position of Director-General of Security has neither a mortgage on wisdom nor longevity. Somewhere along the line the Parliament has an obligation to provide appropriate safeguardschecks and balances and the protection to which every citizen is entitled. I support the remarks of the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones)  on what can be done by security organisations. I corroborate the point he made. I consider that the most horrific case to be recorded is the Seberg case. I draw the attention of the House to a letter from America by Alastair Cooke on 23 September from which I shall quote extensively. It stated: 
 I picked up the Sunday paper and read a story that I hope has given Americans the sort of pause that chills the blood. 
It was a postscript to the suicide of Jean Seberg, the young actress from Iowa and expatriate in France, who was found dead in her car, leaving an empty bottle of barbiturates and a note. 
The postscript was released by the Government, by in fact the FBI, and it 's certainly to the credit of its present chief that he released a detestable confession which reinforces the suspicion that for many years the FBI in the hands of J. Edgar Hoover, its first and long-time head, could hardly be matched by any government for malice and cunning. 
Miss Seberg at one time was a passionate supporter of Leftist causes and made no bones about it. 
In  Mr Hoover's  view she became, like the late Martin Luther King, a social nuisance who it was necessary to intimidate, then to bug, in the hope of breaking their will. 
Some anonymous source one day got in touch with the FBI and passed on to them a rumour, or an invented smear, that Miss Seberg was pregnant by one of the Black Panther leaders. The source suggested to Hoover that, if this rumour could be fed to gossip columnists, it would help tarnish Miss Seberg 's image as a glamourous young movie star from the Middle West. 
Very good, ' said  Mr Hoover,  'a fine idea. ' 
So the Bureau fed the item; most papers turned it down, but a Hollywood writer, what is politely known as a 'lady' columnist, printed it. 
Pretty soon Jean Seberg saw it, living in Paris. There are always good friends alert enough to see that you get the nastiest clippings. 
From that moment on Jean Seberg was a doomed girl. She was pregnant by her husband, the French novelist Romain Gary. But, as he said last weekend, while she was intelligent and courageous, she did not possess a tough hide, the ruthlessness that can tolerate an outrage against oneself. 
She saw the item and within hours went into premature labour; was delivered, by Caesarean section, of a girl who died within days. She took the dead baby back to Iowa in a glass coffin as a glaring proof that the baby was white- an excessive reaction perhaps, but in 1970 she knew that the FBI could and did destroy hundreds of radicals .and non-radicals. 
Romain Gary says that on each succeeding anniversary of the baby's death she attempted suicide. Finally, last week, she made it. 
A former FBI man, who was with the Bureau at the time, had no other justification to offer for this barbarity than to say that getting involved in radical politics could get you involved in national security, that the kid with the picket sign might turn into the kid with the bomb. And, he said, you just keep going down the line. 
Well, for too long the FBI went down the line of its own improvised rules, as we can horribly see, once the Freedom of Information Act made it possible for you and me, the ordinary citizen, to go to government files, including the files of the FBI, and read anything and everything which had been kept under wraps as confidential government information. 
Congress has up for debate in this session- and its committees are already taking testimony on it- a new law, a chaner of dos and dont's, a legal chaner of behaviour for the FBI. 
Roosevelt once confided to a friend that, if the Congress had ever had a hint of the shifts and manoeuvres he was engaged in with the British, before this country got into the war, he would have been impeached. And many of these manoeuvres involved brutal decisions and secret tricks not at all unlike the techniques of James Bond. We can now salve our conscience by saying that after all Hitler was the enemy, we were fighting to survive, and that it was essential for us to go beyond any traditional code of open warfare. However, these tricks and shifts passed over, when the war was over, from the main secret intelligence body, the OSS, into the running of the CIA, which was set up after the war. 
Watergate: 
Watergate, of course, more than anything, did enormous damage to the reputation of the CIA and the FBI. And when all the dirt was shovelled out from under, President Ford's Attorney-General re-vamped the FBI and set his own strong rules. It was the present head of the FBI who chose to make public the disgraceful treatment of Jean Seberg. Romain Gary said he was grateful. He always maintained that she had been destroyed by the FBI, but he said: if the postWatergate FBI had not issued a confirmation, to this day I would have been considered a ' 'mytho-maniac' 
I think if this sad wind has blown any good it must be in the thought that the Seberg case will quicken the conscience of the Congress and sharpen its wits, and make it get busy writing and passing a new legal charter of the FBI. 
I pass a couple of simple observations. I have refrained from entering the debate on this Bill so far. The only part of the Bill I want to debate are the provisions relating to judicial audit. I ask the Minister for Home Affairs  (Mr Ellicott)  what safeguards are contained within the provisions of this Bill, what mechanisms are provided for in the Bill, and what criteria are laid down that will obviate the possibility of something like the Seberg case happening in Australia in the absence of a freedom of information Act? My next question arises from this statement by Hoover: 
Well, for too long the FBI went down the line of its own improvised rules, as we can horribly see. 
Do I assume from the lack of checks and balances in the current legislation that the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation is to go down the line with its own improvised rules? I think it is regrettable. This Parliament ought to institute checks and balances by way of its legislation to obviate what otherwise will ultimately be inevitable in Australia, as it was in New Zealand, and as it was in the United States of America. I would be grateful if the Minister could reply to this point. I see nothing in this legislation that provides for this type of safeguard, which is critically important. 
I wish to make a couple of observations. I recall that not very long ago I asked the Government to persist with a procedure that had been followed in this country for many years in dealing with corporate defalcation. I asked that the procedure be maintained for Ministers exclusively to have the power to withhold a passport where it was considered that a person had committed corporate defalcation. That proposal was rejected by the Government on the grounds that it was an infringement of civil liberties. To get to that stage would have required a recommendation from the Corporate Affairs Commission or the Insurance Commissioner. That proposal did not involve telephone tapping. The Government made it law that a passport can be withheld only on the grounds of a judicial warrant. Now, I follow that, but the important difference between the two matters is that in this case the question of civil , liberties is involved to a much greater extent. We are not going to apply telephone tapping in the case of corporate law, but in the area, principally of narcotics. 
I suppose that of the members on this side of the chamber I would take one of the hardest lines on narcotics. The thing that worries me is that Customs officers, the people who initiate a warrant, who are not trained in the law and who do not have a mortgage on wisdom, are to apply to intercept the telephone of an individual. Such action could lead to a criminal indictment because ultimately if a charge is pressed it comes before judicial proceedings. I ask the lawyers this question: In those circumstances is an oath satisfactory? If such action ultimately is tested in a court, which has the greater force of law and credibility- an affidavit or an oath? I do not know, but I come down on the side of an affidavit. 
-I do not know. Honourable members opposite are the lawyers, I am not. 
All right. I am just making a point. I am not a lawyer. I think this is an extremely serious area. There is no question about that. I suppose that I am more conscious of these matters than are many honourable members, but I do not know how one ever really adds up the social cost of the downstream of the distribution of narcotics. It is horrific, and the penalties ought to be much higher. I am extremely concerned about the procedures which are necessary to get a warrant. I think that a judge, whether he be a Supreme Court judge or a federal judge, surely ought to be more than adequately satisfied that when he issues a warrant the warrant in fact is justified. Surely a judge has some indication at that stage that ultimately there will be judicial proceedings on that case. The constructive aspect which I am looking at is this: Whoever the individual may be, whatever grounds the Customs officer has- he may be as sure as anything that a telephone ought to be tapped- those grounds will not be tested until the case is finally determined judicially. I think that that individual, whoever he may be, has a right to the full protection and full force of the law at that stage. The only question in my mind is whether the procedures to achieve that protection are better as set out in the amendment or in the proposed legislation. At this stage I must confess that the answer is on the side of the amendment. 
I shall take up the time of the Committee for only a couple of minutes. 
I suggest that the exhibition of the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  was a disgrace. I suggest also that he should at least study the Bill. He ought at least to understand the legislation he is debating. Insofar as special investigations are concerned, a Minister can act unilaterally within his State. That is the prerogative of a State Attorney-General with regard to special investigations. But he is precluded from doing so if the matter is outside State jurisdiction or if he has failed to get Ministerial Council approval. The honourable member for St George talked sheer nonsense for 10 minutes. We have more important things to do tonight than to listen to such talk. The second matter to which I suggest the honourable member should address himself is simply this: The Commonwealth Minister can act in the national interest, but if he does so it is at his cost. As I have said, we have more important things to do tonight than to listen to the honourable member for St George and I suggest that he should improve himself in the next hour. On this matter, as on every other matter, he does not know what he is talking about. 
I support the amendment so ably moved by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  This legislation is a clear abrogation of national responsibility. I suggest that if shareholders, the small investors, the business community and particularly the community as a whole seek to achieve any sense of stability, comfort or long term security from this piece of legislation and the subsequent complementary legislation- that is, the takeovers and companies and securities Bills- then regrettably they will be seriously disillusioned. The legislation accurately reflects the do-nothing approach of all conservative governments in a particularly critical and important area. It was E. S. Turner who, in the central thesis of his brilliant book  Roads to Ruin,  best defined this Government's approachindeed, that of all conservative governments- to this issue when he said: 
Gad  Sir, I'm  a Conservative. I believe in reform provided it changes nothing. 
This legislation could be summed up in two simple, brief sentences: If you are an honest investor, beware. If you are a market or company shark, it is business as usual. The Schedule to the Bill sets out the agreement made on 22 December 1978 between the Commonwealth and the States. The object of the agreement is to provide a uniform scheme of legislation and administration in the area of companies and securities industry regulation. There is to be no transfer of power by the States to the Commonwealth; rather there is agreement by the parties to submit complementary legislation once agreed upon by the Ministerial Council. I should make the simple observation that the agreement may not be enforceable in a court of law because of its governmental character. This was the case in the Railway Standardisation Agreement in South Australia v. the Commonwealth in 1 962. 
Let us look at some of the bad features of this piece of legislation. Firstly, it provides for the lowest common denominator approach. Obviously, the most conservative States will set the pattern. Secondly, we will use the 1961 legislation of some of the States in the early 1980s. Therefore, we will be behind the eight ball before we even start. Thirdly, we will face enormous difficulties. This includes co-operation. Attitudes will depend on the political colour of the State and Federal governments and each State's attitude to the Commonwealth Government. Fourthly, in many ways the situation will be worse than it is now. Instead of one body controlling the industry, which would be ideal, there will be a federal bureaucracy superimposed over a number of State bureaucracies. It will be slow, it will be cumbersome. Some States have weak investigatory staffs and this obviously will have a downstream effect. Fifthly, in its submission to the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange about Labor's proposed Bill 1975, the Federal Attorney-General's Department rejected the co-operative approach. Why did it do so? Because the problem with joint legislation is that the regulation of it finished up being nobody's responsibility. Sixthly, the scheme will be, in effect, conducive to public confusion and inevitably will create a sloth-like reaction to market developments. That, I would have thought, is obvious. 
The Bill is extremely vague as to the powers and functions of the Commission, although it is clear, firstly, that the Commission will be totally subservient to the Ministerial Council. That is provided for in clause 7 of the Bill and clause 32 (i) of the agreement. Secondly, it will have no rule or regulation making power of its own. That is provided for as set out in clause 22 of the agreement. Responsibility for companies and securities now will be diffused amongst the governments represented on the Ministerial Council. This means that responsibility for the laws operating in a particular jurisdiction cannot be sheeted home to the government of that jurisdiction. 
Let me put another perspective on it. In order for the scheme to survive in a uniform state, it is necessary for the Commonwealth Parliament and all six State parliaments to concur with the proposals of the Ministerial Council. If, for example, the Senate were to decide to reject a proposal agreed to by a majority of the Council, it would inevitably put great strain on the cooperative foundations of the scheme. Depending on the significance of the proposal, it could lead to one or more States withdrawing from the agreement.  Dr Rose  has enlarged on this scenario by stating: 
It seems unlikely, given the pressures and controversies which arise in respect of the regulation of this industry, that all Parliaments would for long accept major inroads into their sovereignty and agree tamely with the decisions of the council. 
The scheme provides that the substantive regulatory legislation will be in the form of a companies and securities industry ordinance for the Australian Capital Territory and that national uniformity will be achieved by each State enacting legislation mirroring that ordinance. In this way the Commonwealth law will operate only in the Australian Capital Territory and the State laws will operate in each of the respective States. Consequently, any State which found itself in a minority in any vote on the Ministerial Council for Companies and Securities would still be in a powerful and independent position. It could at any time dissent from a decision of the Ministerial Council or withdraw from the whole scheme simply by passing appropriate negating legislation in its own State. In addition, as the agreement provides for the maintenance of existing State administrations, there are no consequent practical problems for a State opting out of the system. 
If on the other hand the Commonwealth legislation were to be based on the Commonwealth's corporations power under the Constitution and, as with the Labor Government's Bill, made to apply to the whole Commonwealth, then it would not be so simple for a State to pass legislation different from that of the Commonwealth. If a State attempted to do so, a challenge in the High Court of Australia would probably ensue in order to determine the validity of the Commonwealth Act. As it stands, the scheme set up by this Bill does not involve the immediate threat of overriding Commonwealth law in the event of a State's withdrawing from the agreement. Consequently, there is no legislation guaranteeing continued uniformity. Urgent action to remedy weaknesses or difficulties with a uniform law is unlikely. In effect, proposals for change have to be submitted to the Ministerial Council. Fourteen days notice is the general requirement for a special meeting of the Council. Any amendment agreed to will not take effect until the Commonwealth legislates. Long delays in Commonwealth action are inevitable. As a result of clause 44 (c) of the agreement, no individual State government may unilaterally amend its own laws for six months from the date of the amendment approved by the Ministerial Council. 
Effective regulation of the securities markets involves the capacity of an administering body to react quickly to market developments. I would have thought that that would have been critically important in any consideration of a Federal Act or uniform law. The proposed format for reacting to market developments with legislative changes is obviously suited to the horse and buggy era. It has little to todays market realities. Fifty years ago the Americans realised what was necessary to deal with the securities market in a federation of States. The United States Government made full use of its constitutional powers to set up its own administrative agency- the Securities and Exchange Commission. That agency was vested with wide enforcement and law making powers. The Australian body has no chance whatsoever of emulating the success of the SEC. The lack of independence and power of the proposed Commission contrasts with the position of the SEC in regard to the rules and regulation making powers. In short, the proposed cooperative scheme is incompatible with strong legislation and with the need to respond quickly and effectively to unforeseen developments in the market place. I suggest that it is a recipe for extremely weak legislation for which no individual government will be politically accountable. It is the very opposite to what the Rae Committee rightly urged was necessary for the regulation of Australia's securities market. It is worth repeating what the Rae Committee concluded. I do not know whether  Senator Rae  still supports this view, but this was the Committee's view: 
Our recommendation is that the new national regulatory body be established by the Federal Government. It is clear from the powers given in the Constitution that this Government was created to meet national needs relating to 'foreign corporations or financial and trading corporations' and interstate and overseas trade and commerce ... In our view the time has come for the Federal Government to step in and to assume responsibilities for seeing that the securities market is properly regulated. 
I suppose it could be well argued that no matter what one's philosophy is, companies and securities industry law should be enacted and administered centrally. There are one or two aspects in relation to the agreement that deserve to be commented upon. Firstly, the part dealing with names and registration is a compromise, I suggest, which only partially solves the problem of companies wishing to carry on business across State borders. The ultimate aim ought to be that a body can register in one place without the need for other jurisdictions to become involved. That is what will happen under this scheme. However, this would require a central index and it would be expensive. The method proposed seems to be the best alternative in the circumstances. 
Secondly, the provisions regarding special investigations are a very good example of the difficulty of running a co-operative scheme. It is obvious if one reads them carefully that State Ministers were not prepared to give up their powers to the Ministerial Council or the National Commission. One cannot be too critical of State Ministers in this regard. Ministers who are active in the field and who are prepared to order special investigations could well be prevented from doing so if they did not have the right themselves. This will occur. It is an example of a fairly complex solution to a problem which results from there being a co-operative scheme. Part XI deals with State and Territory administrations. The comment can be made that the Northern Territory ought to be a full member of the Commission. The Minister ought to explain why it is not a full member. 
Very little is said about the Act itself. The Commission appears to have sufficient power to act in the area. The legislation provides that it can hold hearings, examine people under oath, summon witnesses, take evidence and, in fact, get to the bottom of any matter if it chooses to do so. I suggest that the real question will be whether the Commission uses its teeth. The provisions exist for the Commission to conduct inquiries, give directions to the States and play a very active role both in the administration and law reform areas. The success of the Commission will depend to a great extent upon the people who are appointed to the Commission. If the Ministerial Council appoints a person who basically regards the position as one for retirement, the whole scheme is simply a wasted effort. If, on the other hand, people are appointed who are active in the field, who know the Companies Act and the securities industry, who are prepared to administer the legislation forcibly and to criticise the legislation when it is inadequate, perhaps there is some chance of it providing some advantages for the Australian business community. 
The Securities and Companies Law Review Committee established under the legislation will also have to be active and practical in its approach. In the past years, efforts to review the law have not been altogether successful because there has been no constant review of the law. If the Law Review Committee provides such a constant review and is able to report regularly to the Ministerial Council- I suggest that it ought to equally report to this Parliament- if it forecasts to Parliament areas of difficulty and legislation follows closely upon such reports, then perhaps the scheme will have achieved its purpose. But the legislation does not provide for an accounting standards review committee. The Companies Act provides for accounts to be prepared in a particular way and for those accounts to reflect a true and fair view of the companies' position. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, let me make a pertinent observation. The exact meaning of ' true and fair' is unclear. The general opinion is that it means: In accordance with generally accepted accounting procedures'. The existing Companies Act requires the presentation of a true and fair view, not the true and fair view. That phrase suggests that there may be several true and fair views. In particular, I suggest that Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd is a classic case. I think that some of the difficulty could be resolved if the Federal Act defined what it means by 'true and fair'. I do not think that the legislation can come to grips with this problem until some form of accounting standard review committee is established. Honourable members who have taken part in this debate will know of the terms of Schedule IX of the Companies Act. We are told that the standards set down by the 
Institute of Chartered Accountants in Australia are far more effective than those provided for in the Schedule to the Bill. The difference between the two is that on the one hand the provision in the companies law is enforceable and on the other hand the standard laid down by the chartered accountants is not. Yet if we transmitted a high proportion of the criteria laid down by the Institute of Chartered Accountants and put that into Schedule IX of the Companies Act, we could do a lot to upgrade accounting standards and make them far more effective and efficient. 
I will conclude on this note. Indeed, if the protracted and rancorous gestation period prior to the formal agreement is any indication, in my view the possibility of an efficient and agreeable operation of the scheme is extremely doubtful. The Government's approach to this legislation is best summed up by Professor Christopher Stone in his book titled  Where the Law Ends.  He says: 
We have arranged things so that people who call the shots do not have to bear the full risks. 
In order to overcome this imbalance perhaps the Minister ought to have placed on his staff the Emir of Bokhara. This is set out in that wonderful book by Fitzroy Maclean,  A Person From England,  where it states: 
The Emir ... of Bokhara, son of the infamous Nasrullah ... A pious Moslem, he had the reputation of enforcing both civil and religious laws with severity, but also with justice. 
A close watch was kept on the accounts. Undue luxury or display on the part of others was also sharply discouraged and, while showing relative clemency towards the poor and weak, the Emir would inflict the most severe punishments on the rich and powerful. In this way he had won for himself amongst the people the title . . . 'Killer of Elephants and Protector of Mice'. 
Might I suggest that in Australia it is the reverse. Might I also suggest that he would not have survived very long in the Australian corporate sector. I regret to say that this corporate scheme has got little chance of success. There is only one way in which it can be overcome and that is by a Federal Act. 
I move: 
14) Page 22, after clause 44, insert the following new clause: 44a. There is established by this Act an Accounting Standards Review Committee which shall conduct research and advise the Ministerial Council on the setting of adequate standards to ensure that the true and fair view of the position of a company is reflected in the accounts of the company, and to ensure adequate protection to persons who deal with the company. '. 
Note: There are many examples of other companies being saved from failure by the injection of substantial funds from their shareholders, for example FCA, IAC and CAGA. Although the suppliers of capital to these companies did not suffer direct loss, the shareholders did suffer through a decline in share prices and dividends. 
The shareholders of the Bank of Adelaide have for example recently suffered significant losses because of the support the bank offered FCA. The losses will be realised by the shareholders upon the merger with the ANZ Bank. 
This table is really a scathing indictment. I will go through the companies briefly. There is Cambridge Credit Corporation Ltd, Minsec, Gollin Holdings Ltd, Associated Securities Ltd, Commercial and General Acceptance Ltd and Industrial Acceptance Corporation Ltd. There have been court actions against the auditors Fell and Starkey and Ian Cameron and Co. I wish to quote the previous Commissioner for Corporate Affairs in New South Wales. I commend his words to the Minister and to the Government. Quite recently he said: 
What is required is legislative support for the standard setting process and the legislative endorsement of the standards so produced. 
Although a number of other options might be canvassed I believe the successful implementation of whatever course may be selected would require the co-operation of the professional accounting bodies as the repositories of the very considerable expertise which they have developed in the research and formulation of exposure drafts. 
This is the course which is supported by the New South Wales Attorney-General. As you will be aware he has called for the establishment of an Accounting Standards Review Board comprised of five persons experienced in industry, commerce, economics, law or public administration. As he saw the Board it would not be concerned with the promotion or development of proposed standards; its functions would be confined to reviewing and either endorsing or rejecting standards proposed, although not necessarily exclusively so, by the accounting profession. 
Although the Attorney-General has not said publicly very much more than that about his proposal ... it might provide that the Board would have power: to invite or receive draft standards from the accounting bodies to negotiate with those bodies as the priorities to be followed in the development of specific standards and as to the timetable to be followed (subject to the provision for relief) to require the general adoption of a standard endorsed by the Board to reject a proposed standard and refer it to the originating body for modification. 
I just make these last observations to the Minister; I think they ought to be taken on board by the Government and I hope that the Senate will consider them in some detail: This is a very important area. The available evidence suggests that a partial cause of some, but not all, of the company failures in recent years, particularly in the case of the large companies, has been an inability for the accounting profession to enforce its own standards. This federal scheme should provide some machinery to assist in that enforcement. Secondly, Frank Ryan has made suggestions which much be considered now, long before the scheme comes into operation. He has not suggested government regulation. I support that view. I do not think the taxpayer should have to carry that burden. The industry should carry the burden. Support is critically needed for the professional program. Finally, Commonwealth companies legislation which fails to tackle this problem successfully is likely to be ineffective, inefficient and unsuccessful, as its State counterparts have been. 
I emphasise what I said to the Minister earlier. There seems to be a tragic dichotomy between the schedule line of Commonwealth companies legislation and the criteria laid down by the Institute of Chartered Accountants. If we could transmit that criteria and put it into the schedule line of the Commonwealth companies legislation we could make it much more effective and efficient. I think it is critically important- I trust that the Minister and the Government will look at this matter- that this board of review be put into operation before the whole scheme is implemented. I sincerely trust that the Senate will take this proposal on board, give it sincere consideration and send the Bill back to this House with it inserted. 
I would like to reinforce what the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  has said. This is a clause relating to secrecy. It restricts dealings by persons connected with the Commission. It is in my view regrettable that the clause is insufficiently wide enough to provide the protection to which the public, in fact, is entitled. 
Amendments negatived. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 20 February 1979: 
Has his attention been drawn to the comment in the 5th Annual Report of the Pipeline Authority which states that the use of pipelines to replace road and rail transportation in the process of transporting fuel supplies to market centres where economically justified, would result in a significant contribution to fuel economy. 
If so, has the Government considered this aspect of fuel conservation and what plans does it have for construction, or to assist in the construction of pipelines, which would contribute to fuel economy. 
Has the Government considered the use of coal slurry pipelining in Australia. 
asked the Minister for National 
Development, upon notice, on 28 February 1979: 
Did he, on 1 June 1978, give the Government's support to a recommendation by the Royal Commission on Petroleum (5th Report) that the octane rating of regular grade gasoline be increased from 89 to 92. 
If so, (a) what progress had been made in achieving this recommendation and (b) what action has the Governmenttaken to facilitate this change. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 6 June 1979: 
1 ) Did the Government institute studies to monitor the effects of the new pricing formula for crude oil as recommended in the proposals for an Australian Conservation of Energy Program by the National Energy Advisory Council in September 1977; if not, why not; if so, what were the results of the studies and by whom were they undertaken. 
Has the Government organised any training programs and provided an advisory service in energy conservation in conjunction with State Governments as recommended by the Council in 1977; if not, why not. 
Has a detailed study been made or commenced into desirable future fuel economy standards for new motor vehicles as recommended by the Council; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for Business and 
Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 30 August 1979: 
Has his attention been drawn to estimates of the Australian Woolgrowers and Graziers Council, published in 

 National Farmer of 19 July 1979 that distillate prices have shot up 181 per cent in the last five years, while petrol prices have risen 1 10 per cent by comparison; if so, is there any substance in the estimates. 
Has his attention also been drawn to comments by the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation in the same article where oil companies were criticised on the grounds that they were exploiting a captive market by raising distillate prices at rates not justified by the overall lift in crude oil prices. 
3 ) If so, in view of these and other allegations against oil companies, will he (a) ensure that the Prices Justification Tribunal is given sufficient funds and staff to thoroughly investigate the pricing of distillate and other petroleum products and (b) urgently introduce legislation to prevent oil companies exploiting the present shortage of some products. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 13 September 1979: 
1 ) Is it a fact that gift duty acted as a deterrent to income splitting between members of a family. 
If so, does the abolition of this duty leave the way open for tax evasion and avoidance and a serious loss in taxation revenue. 
What is the estimate of the cost in tax revenue foregone by the abolition of this duty for 1 979-80. 
I preface my question to the Minister for Home Affairs by saying that in view of Australia's intense love of sport, which could almost be claimed as Australia's super religion and that unquestionably per head of population Australia has provided more world champions than any other country - 
No, that is true. Our success in so many fields at home and abroad has had a tremendous impact on this country and overseas. Is it a fact that the Minister recently announced the Government's intention to establish a national history museum in Canberra and is considering the establishment of both an aviation and national maritime museums? Does he agree that we as a people owe a debt of gratitude to those who have made our reputation and standing so high overseas? Will the Minister give consideration to the establishment of a sports museum or a hall of fame, which has proved so successful and popular in the United States, Canada and other countries? 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 20 September 1 979: 
1 ) Is he able to state whether there is throughout most of Western Europe a uniform code of pictorial traffic signs which are easily understood by any driver no matter what his origin or language. 
Does this code contribute to the reduction in traffic accidents and costs. 
Has he taken any initiative with his colleagues in the various States and the Northern Territory to introduce a similar code throughout Australia. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 7 March 1 979: 
Did he state on 7 November 1977  (Hansard,  page 2559) that prevailing forecasts indicated that a desirable timing for oil stockpile establishment, if this is necessary, would probably be the early to mid 1980's: if so, and in the light of events in Iran, is he still satisfied with these forecasts. 
If he is not satisfied with these forecasts, when did he change his mind, and what action has been taken by the Government in relation to the matter. 
Did he also state in answer to question No. 988  (Hansard,  8 September 1977, page 986) that it is not the Government's policy to become directly involved in commercial import or export transactions or to give any direction to Australian commercial interests as to where they should source imports, and that the Government's policy as outlined has been explained on any occasion when the matter of crude oil imports into Australia has entered into discussions with representatives of foreign governments; if so, is the position still as stated. 
Has his attention been drawn to statements made by the Prime Minister in discussions in India with Indian officials, that the Government would investigate diversifying some oil supplies from the Middle East to China because of uncertainty about future supplies from Iran; if so, were these statements in accordance with the stated attitude of the Government. 
In what way will the Government diversify the source of oil supplies, and will negotiations remain in the hands of oil companies. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 21 August 1979: 
1 ) Does he recall my question without notice on 22 May 1979 requesting increased staff for the Taxation Office to handle the workload necessary to minimise tax avoidance, and also the need to increase staff in the Insurance Office to minimise the level of liquidations. 
Does he also recall his supplementary answer on the same date when he intimated that additional staffing provisions have been allowed to the Taxation Office for 1979-80 and that he was working on the insurance question. 
What has been the increase in the number of officers in the Taxation Office during 1 979-80. 
Have his investigations into proposals to increase staff in the Insurance Office been completed; if so, when and how many additional staff will be allocated; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 2 1 August 1 979: 
1 ) Further to his answer to Question No. 1474  (Hansard,  8 November 1977, page 3124) what is the exterior limit to the Antarctic Territory at the edge of (a) the continental landmass or(b) the ice mass. 
Who owns unattached icebergs within in (a) the territorial sea, (b) the economic zone and (c) the high seas. 
Does it make any difference whether the territorial source of the iceberg is, or is not known. 
What aspects of international maritime law apply to the towing of icebergs. 
What are the potential international liabilities for any ecological or other damage due to the harvesting or transporting of icebergs. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 28 August 1 979: 
What action has the Government taken on a number of recommendations in the report presented in June 1977 by the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence on the Middle East reference, which urged the Government to make Australia less dependent on Arab oil supplies and on the unpredictable Middle East situation. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 30 August 1979: 
What are the recommendations of the International Energy Agency to member countries regarding oil stockpiles. 
Do stocks of crude oil and refined products in Australia satisfy IEA recommendations; if not, when will the Government increase stocks to appropriate levels. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 17 October 1979: 
1 ) Further to my question without notice on 22 May 1 979 and my question on notice No. 4373 of 25 September 1979, relating to the need for increased staff in both the Taxation and Insurance Offices, has his attention been drawn to an article in the  Australian  of 26 September 1979 stating that the Federal Government is hiring 400 special investigators to spearhead a blitz on tax cheats and at least half the investigation force will concentrate on closing down phony, contrived tax-cheating schemes. 
Has he completed his investigations into increased staff for the Taxation Office; if so, when and how many additional staff will be allocated; if not, why not. 
) Have his investigations into the need for increased staff in the Insurance Office been completed; if so, when and how many additional staff will be allocated; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 19 September 1979: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the case of Fletcher v. Seddon Atkinson Australia Pty Ltd (1979), INSWLR 169, in which the New South Wales District Court decided that the enforcement and application (except possibly by way of defence) of certain provisions of Part V, Division 2 of the Trade Practices Act 1974, as amended, fell within the exclusive jurisdiction of the Federal Court of Australia. 
If so, will the decision create uncertainty and cause considerable practical problems in the administration of laws governing contracts for the supply of goods and services to consumers. 
Will he consider, as a matter of urgency, amending the Act (a) to remove the uncertainty created by the decision and, in particular, (b) to make it dear that State courts may deal with the application of the provisions of Part V, Division 2 of the Trade Practices Act in order to avoid the possibility of consumers being put to the unnecessary expense and inconvenience of commencing 2 or more actions in different courts to enforce claims arising out of the same contract. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 20 September 1979: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the recommendations of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works in relation to Adelaide Airport, its recommendations regarding the redevelopment of airway facilities at that airport and in particular the (a) operations building, (b) services building, (c) existing fire station and (d) existing terminal building. 
When will these redevelopment facilities be completed. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. Is there abundant evidence of manufacturers giving generous handouts to supermarkets and large retailers to pay them for advertising the manufacturers' products? Has this practice contributed to sharp increases in food prices? Did the Government become so worried about high food price margins and their effects on the rate of inflation that a reference was sent to the Prices Justification Tribunal in November 1978? Did the PJT report to the Minister by 3 1 August, as its annual report mentions it expected to do? If so, what are the Tribunal's recommendations about processed food prices and margins? What action is the Government proposing to take about these recommendations? 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 26 September 1979: 
1 ) Is it a fact that there is an urgent need to raise risk capital in Australia to minimise the escalation of foreign ownership of natural resources. 
Is it also a fact that internationally, areas for investment by large trans-national corporations are drying up. 
Will Australia's natural resources be a source of strength and leverage, and give this country freedom to dictate the amount of investment and the rate of exploitation of its resources. 
What inducement is the Government prepared to offer, in particular to life offices and superannuation funds, for risk investment. 
Will he review the 30/20 rule and permit a proportion of the 20 per cent to be invested in our natural resources to help in the fight against overseas ownership. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 24 October 1979: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the concern expressed by  Mr E.  R. Kirkpatrick, the Insurance Commissioner, in the 5th Annual Report of the Commission at page 32 where the Commissioner relates the problem of rate cutting. 
Has his attention also been drawn to press statements by the leaders in this field which corroborate the Commission's findings that (a) a highly dangerous situation is developing (b) underwriting losses are manifest and generally increasing, (c) more and more insurance companies and insurance intermediaries are relying on investment income, on technical reserves, and on creditor finance respectively, to cover losses made on their insurance activities and (d) these findings ignore the fundamental principles on which the industry should be based. 
Will he take steps to rationalise the industry in an effort to obviate what is obviously a highly dangerous situation facing the industry; if so, what steps does he intend to take. 
Has the Government considered providing assistance for companies to merge one with another so as to form larger, more viable and more efficient units. 
Is the Campbell Committee of Inquiry into the Australian Financial System obliged, under its terms of reference, to report upon the insurance industry; if not, will he refer this area to that Inquiry as a matter of urgency. 
If he will not refer the insurance industry to that Inquiry, will he establish a committee of inquiry consisting of Government officials from the Treasury and/or the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs (preferably experts in mergers and takeovers), the Reserve Bank, representatives of the industry and such other persons with expertise in this area as are considered desirable to be appointed, and for the  Chairman  to be an independent person such as a senior accountant, to report upon the measures that can be adopted to rationalise the industry. 
-I support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)- 
Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 20 September 1979: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to research being undertaken in the United Kingdom into patterns of cementation in sandstone (as reported in  Geographical Magazine,  May 1979) which may improve the accuracy of searches foroil and gas. 
Is any similar research being conducted in Australia, or is anyone in his Department keeping a watching brief on this overseas research. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 10 October 1979: 
1 ) Did he state on 23 January 1 979 that the Government will study the feasibility of the establishment of a commercial uranium enrichment industry in Australia. 
If so, (a) when did the study begin, (b) who is conducting it, (c) which foreign companies or Governments are involved and (d) which State Governments and private companies in Australia have been involved in the study. 
Will the study recommend possible sites for an enrichment plant; if so, what sites have been considered. 

 -Mr Speaker, could I have your indulgence. The Minister for Foreign Affairs presented responses to the reports of the 
Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence on both the Middle East and the Torres Strait. I was a member of that Committee. What procedure does one go through to have those responses noted? I have not seen the Minister's response or the Government's response to the reports. I think both matters need to be debated in the Parliament. They are both important issues. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 24 October 1979: 
Has his attention been drawn to a report in the  Financial Review  of15 October 1979 which claimed that an oil exploration company, Metals and Energy Minerals, has decided to defer a $1 million share issue until certain doubts are clarified on the Government's budget decision to allow tax rebates for funds subscribed for onshore oil exploration. 
If so, what substance is there in this report and is it a fact that many genuine exploration companies will be disqualified from claiming the rebate because explorers operating under farm-in arrangements will be precluded. 
In view of the need for more oil exploration in Australia, and in view of the fact that most Australian explorers operate on relatively small budgets, will he act urgently to ensure that fund-raising and genuine exploration expenditure by oil explorers is not delayed by uncertainties over the rebate scheme or inhibited by over-restrictive legislation. 
asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice, on 2 1 August 1979: 
1 ) Is he able to say whether Trading Bank loan facilities made available to small businesses in 1977-78 constituted 36.5 per cent in value of the total facilities available for lending. 
Do small businesses account for 56 per cent of private sector employment; if so, do the loan facilities made available to them fall far short of this percentage. 
Has his attention been drawn to a statement made by  Mr E.  Colledge, a leading financial consultant to the automotive industry, that local trading banks are consistently failing the vital small business sector, in that the most common response of bank managers to requests for additional funds by small business people, is to refer them to the bank's whollyowned or affiliated finance company where funds are available at rates often in excess of 1 8 per cent. 
If the position is as stated, will he institute discussions with the Minister for Finance and the Treasurer to ensure that adequate funds are made available to the banking system by way of Statutory Reserve Deposits which could be let out at reasonable rates of interest to small businesses. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 1 9 September 1 979: 
1 ) Have any tests on the hormone drug Stilboestrol been carried out in Australia; if so, by whom and when; if not, what evidence or tests were the basis of its acceptance as safe for use in Australia. 
For women who now find themselves or their children suffering from the effects of Stilboestrol, is it the Government, the doctor or the drug manufacturer who takes responsibility for their predicament. 
Will the Government establish a register of these women. 
Has Stilboestrol ever been used for feeding animals and poultry in Australia as has been the case in the United States of America; if so, is it still being used in feed for cattle, pigs, sheep or poultry. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 30 August 1979: 
Has his attention been drawn to reports  (News,  22 August 1979) that the 92 octane petrol produced by Caltex has claimed 3 1 per cent of the company's petrol sales in Sydney, and up to 35 per cent in Newcastle in the first week since it was launched. 
Is it a fact that a 30 per cent swing to 92 octane petrol throughout Australia would save $70 million a year in oil imports; if so, will he request other oil companies to introduce 92 octane petrol. 
Did he endorse the call by the National Energy Advisory Committee for the introduction of 92 octane petrol over a year ago; if so, why has (a) it taken so long for this type of petrol to be introduced and (b) only one company adopted the recommendation. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 19 September 1979: 
1 ) Are there any laws which govern the mandatory labelling, in English, of imported products such as dyeing agents. 
Is it a fact that every colour dye licensed for use in Australia has to have a code index number. 
Are some imported dyes being sold in Adelaide without the appropriate code number; if so, what action does he propose to take on this matter. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 20 September 1979: 
1 ) Are the vast majority of post-graduate students at Australian universities forced to undertake work as demonstrators or tutors because they cannot exist on the salary of $4,200 per annum. 
Do these students pay 43.5 cents in the dollar PAYE taxation on their earnings, even though the conditions of post-graduate awards allow for a maximum of only 180 hours extra employment. 
Are research scholars in effect obliged to make an interest-free loan of 43.5 cents in the dollar to the Treasury for all additional earnings. 
Is it fact that these scholars are worse off in money terms in 1 979 than they were in 1 977. 
If so, will he raise the post-graduate allowance and correct the taxation anomaly which penalises post-graduate students. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 20 September 1979: 
1 ) Did he state in April 1979 that the Government would shortly be presenting an energy policy discussion paper which would canvass future energy needs and options; if so, why has it not been presented. 
Why did he reject my proposal in a question on notice, that there is an urgent need to set up a Joint Standing Committee of the Parliament to inquire into and report upon Australia's fuel and energy needs as in the Parliaments of (a) the United States of America, (b) the United Kingdom and (c) the European Economic Community. 
On what grounds does he deny members of all parties and both Houses the opportunity to contribute to an energy policy for this country. 
Why is inquiry confined to the Senate Committee on Trade and Resources. 
Will he reconsider my proposal. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 20 September 1979: 
1 ) Did Golden Fleece Petroleum and other oil companies threaten to cease petrol supplies to Southern Cross Petroleum (a group of 37 petrol resellers in South Australia) in July 1979. 
Are the marketing reform measures which he promised to introduce last February applicable to this situation; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 24 October 1979: 
1 ) Did he state on 22 February 1979 that the Government would legislate to outlaw discrimination in the petroleum retailing industry; if so, is this still intended. 
If legislation is not to be introduced, was this reversal brought about by pressure from the oil companies. 
Are oil companies increasingly squeezing out traditional dealers to establish self-service petrol stations over which the companies have even greater control; if so, is there an urgent need for the legislation. 
Can he say how many petrol stations have been (a) closed, (b) opened and (c) converted to self-service operation, in each State during each of the last 5 years. 
With reference to his answer to part (4) of question No. 3885  (Hansard,  11 September 1979, page 977) what aspects of the Government's petrol retail industry proposals had not been considered by that date. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 25 October 1 979: 
1 ) What is the current standing of discussions between the Commonwealth and States to amend the River Murray Waters Agreement. 
Can he say when this legislation will be introduced. 
Has his attention been drawn to an address by  Mr J.  V. Seekamp to the 35th Annual Meeting of the Murray Valley Development League, when  Mr Seekamp  noted that pumps at the Lake Hawthorn project were installed by Victoria in 1968-69 with grant money provided by the Commonwealth Government but there is a reluctance to use them as Victoria has to meet the continuing pumping cost; if so, will he investigate this situation to ensure that increased powers are given to the River Murray Commission to overcome problems of this nature. 
Will he raise with the River Murray Commission the question of the effectiveness of dilution flows from Lake Victoria, as referred to by  Mr Seekamp. 
Are the criticisms by  Mr Seekamp  of the operation of these salinity mitigation works justified; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 7 November 1979: 
1 ) Is it a fact as suggested by representatives of the Attorney-General's Department to the Law Council of Australia on 9 October 1979, that regardless of any suggestions which the Administrative Review Council may make, the Administrative Appeals Tribunal is to be given certain decisions of the Director-General of Social Security which are adverse to claimants for social security benefits. 
If so, is any provision being made for the granting of legal aid in these cases before the Tribunal. 
Is there any provision for legal aid in any other cases (e.g. appeals against deportation orders) before the Tribunal. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 20 November 1979: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to Press reports which indicate that Saudi Arabia is upset that its lower oil prices have benefitted the oil companies instead of the consumer and that consequently the Saudis may raise the price of their crude oil before the next OPEC meeting. 
Have these reports been the subject of discussion between the Saudi Arabian Government and the Australian Government. 
Is profiteering by oil companies having an adverse effect on Saudi crude oil pricing policies. 
What action will the Australian Government take by itself or in conjunction with other countries to curtail this profiteering and to help maintain the hitherto moderate stance of Saudi Arabia on oil pricing. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 20 November 1979: 
1 ) How many persons giving their occupation as (a) insurance broker, (b) insurance salesman and (c) insurance agent, have become bankrupt during each year since 1 970. 
How many persons have entered into deeds and schemes of arrangements with creditors under the provisions of the Bankruptcy Act during each year since 1 970. 
