Indeed, I do recall - I hope it is not with any personal prospects - the interest which the honourable member has shown in this question. It is a matter of policy. I can assure him of my sympathetic understanding of his difficulties. 
by leave - It has recently been drawn to my attention that a number of private organisations have been advertising themselves as consultants on pension eligibility and the operation of the means test. I am concerned with the style of advertising some of these companies have adopted. I have received complaints, and from inquiries I have made it seems that at least some of these organisations are primarily concerned with encouraging people to invest funds in their various business enterprises rather than with the welfare of the individuals involved. 
While this practice may not be contrary to any specific law or necessarily against the best interests of the people responding to the advertisements, 1 do want to draw attention to the dangers of acting on advice received from persons who are not expert in the field of social services. Unfortunately it comes to my notice from time to time that wrong advice is given by self-styled experts on social services. By the time the person comes to the Department he has committed himself to a course of action which may have an effect on his pension eligibility contrary to what he was led to believe. Of course, by this time it is usually too late to retrieve the position and the person suffers as a result. 
I wish to emphasise that there is no need for the public to seek information about pensions or pensioner entitlement from these organisations. With over 50 offices throughout Australia and a staff of about 4,000, my Department is geared to give prompt, courteous service and expert advice to all persons seeking information about social services. Recent widespread departmental advertising and publicity have encouraged increasing numbers of persons to avail themselves of these services and it is to be hoped that this trend will continue. 
In addition, departmental leaflets about the various social services are available upon request at any Post Office or office of the Department, and a ready reckoner is available for those who wish to calculate for themselves the approximate rate of pension they may be eligible to receive. Honourable members on both sides of the House make their services available to constituents, and where there is any doubt in their minds as to the eligibility for a pension they may properly avail themselves of their contacts with my Department. The House may recall that last year I made available folders with information on social services to all honourable members, so that they would be in a better position to answer queries from their constituents. 
If any honourable member is convinced that full justice is not being done in any particular case, then I am only too happy for the matter to be brought to me personally. It is my policy and the policy of my Department that anyone who has a pension entitlement under the law should receive it to the full and with the least possible delay. 
 1 move: 
That the Bill be now  read a  second time. 
The House will have noted a most peculiar discrepancy in the positions taken by various members of the Opposition in this regard. The House will recall that the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  spoke of things which were in the open because they were things derived from  Mr Burchett's  own publications - - things which were derived from his public activities. The honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  said: 'If these things are true these things are wholly disgraceful. If these things are true this man has done something appalling!' These are the honourable member's words; he will find them in Hansard when he looks at the text tomorrow. The honourable member for Hunter  (Mr lames),  on the other hand, finds what  Mr Burchett  has done to be wholly admirable. He praised it. He found no fault in the man. The honourable member said that the only accusation against  Mr Burchett  was that he had told the truth. 
So far as the honourable member for Hunter was concerned there was no fault in what is the admitted fact because it comes from  Mr Burchett's  own books. But the honourable member for Reid thinks entirely the opposite. This is a most peculiar thing, lt is no good saying: 'Look, let this man not suffer. Let his wife and children not suffer. Pull out the stops', because this man has done harm, and done harm to Australia on the international scale. He does the most harm when he misleads weakminded people like the honourable member for Hunter. 
I withdraw the word 'weak-minded'. I substitute the phrase easily persuaded*. 
Many people might laugh at the honourable member for Hunter, but we should remember that he occupies a place in this House and he is one of the representatives of the Opposition in this House. Unfortunately, what he says has some significance. The way in which the Communist Party works is through what Lenin described as the transmission belt - the use of other people who are not Communists to take up, perhaps in a sincere belief, Communist ideas and the Communist propaganda and the use of those people to the detriment of their country. That, I believe, is why Burchett is here at this moment. I think that Burchett is in Australia in order to popularise the idea that the Americans and the Australians did engage in germ warfare in Korea. He is here in order to get public acceptance of this propaganda lie. In this, as in other cases, he is acting as a Communist agent. 
One thing that has been said or implied by members of the Opposition during this debate and which might be relevant is that these charges should not be made under the privilege of this House. Therefore on this occasion, as on other occasions, I propose to say outside the House the things that I am now going to say inside it. Although I believe that honourable members are fully entitled to the privilege of this House, on this occasion I will not claim that privilege. Obviously what I say here is entirely privileged. What I shall say outside will not be privileged. I say that, in my view, the works and the writings of Burchett, what he has said publicly and on the record, and what he has had publicised in his name stamp him as being a man who has given his heart and soul to our Communist enemies and as a man who acts as their agent and their propagandist. I would say further that I do not know whether the persons who have made statements and published material about the interrogation of prisoners of war will be prepared to come and stand up in court, but I would say that there is evidence that in this interrogation of prisoners Burchett went beyond the functions of an ordinary journalist and acted as part of the machine of our Communist enemies. These are serious charges. If the honourable member for Reid looks at Hansard tomorrow, he will find that these are the charges which the honourable member said would merit the most sincere condemnation and severe penalties. These are the charges which I make in this House and which T will make outside this House also. 

 Mr UREN (Reid)-  Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I am not able to confirm the exact number of the cases to which the honourable member has referred, but I would not dispute the general correctness of the kind of picture that he has given. A survey of the whole of Australia in this regard is at present under consideration. But I would remind him, and f think the House would be glad to be reminded, that the Governmnent has given this matter a high priority and considers it a matter about which something deserves to be done. It was particularly noted in the Prime Minister's policy speech that legislation touching some part of the very deserving field to which the honourable member has drawn attention will be introduced. At the present moment such legislation is under consideration and I hope to be able to introduce it shortly. I would assert that the Government is doing something about the matter, and although I would not be so optimistic as to say that everything can be solved overnight the honourable member can be assured that this very real problem is right in the sights of the Government and something will be done about it in this House very shortly. 
by leave - The House will recall that on 26th September I announced the Government's intention to set up an Aboriginal Aged Persons Homes Trust. The necessary formalities have now been completed, and I now lay on the table a copy of the trust deed. 
Under the Aged Persons Homes Act, the Government contributes S2 for every Si subscribed from non-governmental sources for the provision of non-profit homes for aged persons. Aboriginals are eligible for this on the same basis as anybody else, but they may not always have the same ability to provide or attract their one-third of the cost. This Trust is designed to fill the gap- 
The Trust is set up to receive gifts of money from the public, and to use these gifts for the payment of the one-third contribution on behalf of Aboriginals who take the benefit of the Act. The Government will provide the other two-thirds. 
I am delighted to confirm that three very distinguished persons have consented to act as trustees. They are:  His  Grace the Primate of Australia, Archbishop P. N. W. Strong, C.M.G.,  His  Eminence Cardinal  Sir Norman  Gilroy, Archbishop of Sydney and  Mr B.  B. Callaghan, C.B.E., the Managing Director of the Commonwealth Banking Corporation. These three trustees will have a board of advice consisting of six Aboriginal members, namely,  Mrs Eileen  Lester of New South Wales,  Mr James  Berg of Victoria,  Mrs Kath  Walker of Queensland,  Mr N.  T. Bonner of Queensland,  Mrs Maude  Tongerie of South Australia and  Mr George  Harwood of Western Australia. I would like to express my appreciation for the willingness of these prominent people to act. It is to be hoped that an Aboriginal from the Northern Territory will shortly join the board. 
The deed sets out the objects of the Trust as follows: 
The object of the charity is to solicit and receive gifts of money from members of the public and, in accordance with the provisions of this deed, to distribute them for any or all of the following purposes: 
to eligible organisations towards the cost of approved homes to be used wholly or mainly for persons of the Aboriginal race; 
to provide donations for persons of the Aboriginal race; or 
such other similar charitable purposes for the Aboriginal race as the Minister from time to time approves.' 
I should like to make it clear that the funds can be used either to provide any necessary donation for an Aboriginal who has been accepted for entrance into a normal aged persons home or alternatively for the setting up of aged persons homes devoted wholly or mainly to persons of Aboriginal origin. Naturally the decision will depend upon existing circumstances: What well may be the best practice for Sydney or Melbourne may be inappropriate for northern Queensland. The great objective is to make Aboriginals comfortable and secure in their old age, and in this their own preference and established ways of life must be considered. We would not want old people to be unsettled and unhappy in surroundings to which they are unaccustomed. The trust deed provides: 
The Trustees shall distribute the moneys received for the charity in accordance with this Deed. In deciding the manner and amounts in which (he funds of the charity are to be distributed, the Trustees shall have regard to the recommendations of the Board. 
This means, in effect, that the day to day decisions as to how the money is to be spent will be made on the recommendations of the Aboriginal Board. This expresses our principle of involving Aboriginals to the greatest possible extent in the decisions affecting Aboriginal life. The income of the Trust will be exempt from taxation, and there will be no stamp duty in the Australian Capital Territory. The Office of Aboriginal Affairs will provide the necessary office service to the Trust free of charge. In consequence, virtually all moneys received as donations will be devoted to providing housing for Aged Aboriginals, and every $1 donated will be matched by 2 Government dollars, so that each $1 given will provide $3 worth of accommodation. The scope of the Trust will be determined by public donations. There are many people who say they want to do something practical to help Aboriginals. Here is their chance. Donations are deductible for income tax purposes, and should be sent to: 
 Mr Speaker,  it is not seldom, of course, that honourable members on this side of the House welcome an urgency motion because it enables them to score and make the Government point of view effective. I welcome this debate but not for that reason because in this case it does give an opportunity for honourable members on both sides of the House to say something about a matter which is of concern to both sides. The honorable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  was good enough to say that I was sincere in regard to Aboriginal health and welfare. May I return to him the same compliment and say that I believe that in this matter he is sincerely stating something which is not only in his heart but also, 1 think, worth saying? 
The Government is fully aware of the situation and is doing something about it. The honourable member for Fremantle quoted from the Medical Journal of Australia dated 21st February 1970. The article in the journal, was, I think, very largely the outcome of a conference held a couple of months earlier - early in December 1969 - at Sydney University which was sponsored by the Commonwealth Department of Health and my own Office of Aboriginal Affairs. It was called ' a workshop on the health and nutritional status of Aboriginal children'. It was attended, among other people, by  Dr Jose  who was one of the authors of the article from which the honourable member quoted. 
The Government recognised this problem. We are also doing something effective about it. The honourable member quoted statistics from Western Australia where, as he said, the death rate had been halved in the course of a few years. The same is true of other places. I shall read to the House figures we have achieved in the Northern Territory where there was some kind of dissection of the figures on the basis of Aboriginal race. The relevant figures for the death rate per thousand live births, were as follows: 1966, 149.0; 1967, 101.1; and for 1968 they were 80.9. In those three years we almost, not quite, halved the rate. This improvement is continuing. Now,  Mr Speaker,  I would like to read to the House another extract from the same Medical. Journal and the same article quoted by the honourable member for Fremantle, which seems to me to be relevant:, 
The final eradication of malnutrition will be  a  long process. We know the general approach - improvement of social and economic circumstances, education, and the initiation of maternal standards common in a 'white' population. For the Aboriginal, we have yet to develop mechanisms to achieve the success of the general approach. To do this we need more knowledge of the economic viability of Aboriginal communities, a better insight into the characteristics of the successful Aboriginal mother, an appreciation of food prejudices if they exist, and, above all, a persistent belief that the eradication of malnutrition is worthwhile. None of this will be easy; all of it will be expensive; many of the efforts will be disheartening. 
I agree in essence with that summary. It is not an easy thing to do. One cannot simply meet the problem on one front. It is part of an approach on a number of fronts, where standards of education, housing and so on all are concerned. But let the House be fair and remember that in the last couple of years since the Commonwealth has been in charge the infant mortality rate has been halved. The rate is still too high, but we are still reducing it. We recognise that, as the 'Medical Journal' says, it will be a long road and some aspects of it will be discouraging. I have spoken about the Northern Territory. The honourable member for Fremantle referred to Western Australia. Although there are not detailed statistics available, I would have thought that what is true of Western Australia and the Northern Territory is generally true of Australia. I have said that I do not believe the present situation is satisfactory, but I do believe that it is improving, and improving at a very fast rate. Under the Government's policy it will continue to improve. 
It was because we recognised this fact that we called the conference in December to which I have referred. It was asked that the proceedings of the conference should be considered confidential, but I have no reluctance in making the record available to the honourable member for Fremantle on a confidential basis, because he will see there that the kind of problems that be was very justifiably talking about were being analysed and some constructive ideas were put forward. One of the things which emerged from the conference - and it was a concrete suggestion - was that the use of unfortified milk in the period immediately on weaning was a great source of trouble. The view was expressed that if the Aboriginal mothers could be induced to use fortified milk in place of unfortified milk a great many of the problems - not all of them, but a great many of them - would be eliminated. When I heard this and found this opinion expressed by the most competent authorities I checked it in a number of places and personally contacted a number of doctors who were active in the field of Aboriginal welfare. In general they agreed with this opinion. 
I went to a number of Aboriginal settlements to find out what the practice was and I came across a piece of information which was disheartening. Fortified milk was available, and it was available free, but Aboriginal mothers would not use it. I spoke personally to sisters in charge of welfare clinics on the settlements. I found that the fortified milk was available free of charge but it was not being used and they could not induce the Aboriginal mothers to use it consistently. This is exactly in line with what the 'Medical Journal' says, that there will be a great number of disappointments and much that is disheartening. So I have taken another step in this regard. I have had some tests made in adding specific amounts of iron and ascorbic acid to unfortified milk so that it will have the virtues of fortified milk. At the present moment on my instructions experiments are being conducted to find a product which can be placed in normal stores and which will have this fortifying element in it. I believe that within a few weeks the experiments will be completed. They are being conducted under the advice of  Dr Clements,  who is probably the most eminent authority in this field. 
If it is found that we can get a satisfactory product then I think it will be possible to substitute this for the normal unfortified milk so that the unfortified milk is not available. In this way we will be able to cure not all but a great amount of the malnutrition in Aboriginal children. It may be said that this is a small thing. It is not a small thing, but it is not the whole answer. I cite this as the kind of concrete thing we are doing in order to approach and overcome the very real problems which the honourable member for Fremantle has brought forward. This is related to the thesis of  Dr Kalokerinos,  which he elaborated when he saw the circumstances of many Aboriginal children in the west of New South Wales. He believes, rightly or wrongly, that there is some kind of mechanism - perhaps a genetic mechanism - which makes it difficult for Aboriginal infants to absorb ascorbic acid and therefore there is a tendency towards scurvy amongst them. 
I took this matter up with the medical authorities. There are differences of opinion in regard to it. May I say that, as a layman, I am rather impressed with the results obtained by  Dr Kalokerinos,  but I also say that, as a layman, I must be guided by the most competent medical opinion. It is thought that if the foods can be fortified with perhaps an inordinate amount of ascorbic acid it will do no harm to other people but the Aboriginal infants will benefit considerably from it. I think I had better not refer to exact places and so on, but I found in Queensland that the doctors believe that if this one simple thing were done perhaps the problem would be halved. 
No. If this pilot project succeeds then I hope to apply it generally throughout Australia. All I am saying is that the Government recognises this problem. In the last 2 years it has taken measures which have halved, but not eliminated, the excess mortality. Last December, 2 months before the article was written, we convened a definitive conference in regard to this problem, and we are trying to find ways and means of applying the medical knowledge available in order to eliminate what is still a distressing state of affairs, although it is not nearly as bad as once it was. 
I am sometimes of the opinion that the Aboriginal cause is not helped by those who call for quite extreme measures but that the problem is, instead, one which has to be faced on all fronts. If you merely look at nutrition you will fail; if you merely look at education you will fail; if you merely look at housing you will fail; and if you merely look at unemployment you will fail. All these things have to be looked at together. I do not believe that success can be achieved by separating the younger generation Aboriginals from the older generation Aboriginals; they are all the one people. I do not think that you can take one group and advance it and leave the rest to sink, which is why I regret a little the statement by the honourable member for Fremantle that the policy adopted is unimportant. I think the policy adopted is important, but it must have a material foundation. In this respect the honourable member for Fremantle and myself, as well as the policy of the Government, are tending towards the same objective. 
The question that the honourable member raises is a most important one and I think I should give the House some of the background to it. The sites concerned are those that are sacred to the Pitjantjatjara people and they stretch across the boundaries of Western Australia and South Australia and also, to some extent, into the Northern Territory. Most of the people concerned appear to live in South Australia and the Northern Territory, although I think that the majority of the relevant sites would be in Western Australia. They are sites of the very highest importance. I do not think k is possible to exaggerate their importance either in the life of the Pitjantjatjara people or, indeed, in academic terms. They are absolutely important in the scale of world study and knowledge of these things. 
Unhappily, as I have mentioned to the House before, the sacredness of these sites is also bound up with their secretness so that they are unknown to people who are not initiated. Until recently the majority of the important sites were not known to any European. As it happens one European recently - a  Mr Wallace  - has been initiated into certain of the ceremonies. He would have a far greater knowledge of the sites than any other European has yet attained, although I do not believe that his knowledge would be complete. Let me say in regard to these sites that it will be our policy not only to preserve them but, insofar as it can be done, to preserve their sacred character, namely their secret character, and that while there are living men to whom these things are important, the beliefs of those living men should not be violated in any way if it can be helped. 
It is difficult in this case because, as I have said, the people concerned are reluctant to reveal the existence or location of the sites. In these circumstances I have been in touch with the relevant State authorities. The Western Australian Government recently sent out an expedition, headed by Professor Crawford, which did delineate some but not all of the sites and, I think, not the most significant of the sites. I am, however, in contact both with the South Australian and Western Australian authorities in regard to them and I am proposing, if possible, to have areas set aside where the sites will be included but will not be pinpointed. I am not clear whether or not this will be practicable. The matter will be discussed tomorrow at the Council of State and Federal Ministers connected with Aboriginal affairs, which will be holding its annual meeting in Sydney. I shall be bringing the matter up. I would think that the first thing to do would be to ascertain and map the boundaries of the relevant mineral exploration areas. I believe that at present they all are in Western Australia and I hope that there will be no unnecessary incursions in South Australia. When these boundaries have been mapped I would propose to see whether lt is possible to set aside areas containing the sacred sites. Professor Stanner, who is on my Council of Aboriginal Affairs- 
I am sorry if I am taking up the time of the House. 
If that is preferred, I will do so. 
by leave - I realise that my remarks at Question Time concerning sacred places at Wingellina were somewhat lengthy and I will not take much more time to discuss the matter. I remind the House that the ceremonies and sacred places at Wingellina are of very considerable antiquity. It is at least probable - I will not say for certain - that they are the oldest ritual ceremonies at present left in the world. This is the opinion which is held by competent people. 1 myself am not competent to give any expression of opinion in regard to the matter. However, 1 might read what Professor Stanner has said about this matter. Professor Stanner is the Professor of Anthropology at the Australian National University. He has a great connection with Aboriginals. He is perhaps the leading authority on Aboriginal religious ideas in the world. He writes: 
I  cannot think of any aspect of Aboriginal life and thought which is charged with more scientific and philosophical interest or of any region where  a  comparable study could be made. However,  I  do not mind you quoting me as saying that, in my opinion, any destruction of the cohesion of Aboriginal culture in this region could be compared with the destruction of the Library of Louvain by the Germans in 1914. 
He puts it as high as that. 
It may well be that these ceremonies are, shall I say, five times older than the pyramids. Perhaps they are five or six times as old and go back as far in human history as the time of Abraham. These are conjectures. One does not quite know what the position is and indeed it is not easy to know the position by reason of the fact that many of these ceremonies are still held secret. So far as i at any rate am concerned, I do not intend to say anything in this House or elsewhere which would in any way prejudice or invalidate that secrecy; because this secrecy is important to the people who celebrate these ceremonies. I would regard any breach of it during the lifetime of men to whom these things are of significance as being reprehensible. For that reason, as I have said, it is very difficult to know how to deal with the whole Wingellina affair. 
I came into contact with this matter perhaps 8 months or 9 months ago when I was at Amata, which is in South Australia. The Aboriginal people there came to see me. I met them first in the evening. They went away at night and talked among themselves. On the following morning we met again. We met out in the open because it is customary that these things should be done in the open where the Aboriginals can see that no unauthorised person is approaching. They sat in their correct two moieties around two fires. I was told certain things in regard to these ceremonies for the purpose of enabling some protection to be given to them. These places are important to these people. I am glad to say that the authorities in South Australia and Western Australia share my concern in this regard. The international nickel company which is prospecting in the area also has shown a proper concern in regard to them. 
I am glad to tell the House that some couple of months ago the international nickel company in conjunction with the authorities in Western Australia arranged for authorities from the museum at Perth to visit the area. These authorities were Professor Crawford and  Mr Tomkinson.  They were able to see certain things there, but I do not believe that they were told the full story. I am afraid that, because of this secrecy surrounding these matters and the desires of the Aboriginals to keep them away from anybody who is not properly initiated into them, these gentlemen did not obtain information as to the full significance of these ceremonies. I say this not in any criticism of their work. It is impossible for anybody who has not had some years of contact there to receive the necessary confidences in regard to the matter from the Aboriginals. 
I have asked  Mr Wallace  who is the one man who has some of their confidences to confer with Professor Stanner. I have arranged that that be done. I am hoping that it will be possible for areas to be delineated in a way which will satisfy the requirements both of the nickel mining company and of the Aboriginals, where the sacred places are not pinpointed but where the areas in which they occur are generally reserved. In order to do this, tomorrow I shall be asking the authorities in Western Australia particularly to let me know where the exact boundaries of the mining exploration permits are. These will be taken down and we will see then whether it will be possible to act as I have suggested to excise from them the areas of main concern to the Aboriginals without actually pinpointing the sites. 
All this is very difficult. The House will appreciate that it is difficult. But I do start with the fact that the authorities in both Western Australia and South Australia are co-operative and that the mining company itself has shown a commendable desire in the first instance to meet up with the situation. I cannot speak for the State governments. The authority in relation to the grants of mineral concessions lies with them. This is not the prerogative of the Federal Government. We have no formal power. But I feel assured that the matter, although it is difficult and nebulous, will be approached with goodwill. As far as I am concerned, I will do everything that I can within the limited constitutional power that I have to see that the interests of the Aboriginals in their ceremonies are properly and adequately preserved. That is all that I can say. I present the following paper: 
Aboriginal Sacred Sites in the Wingellina area, Western Australia - Ministerial Statement, 12 March 1970-  and move: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Beazley)  adjourned. 
While 1 do not think that there is a chair exclusively directed to gerontology, this is a matter which is under study at numerous places in Australian universities. I have, of course, consulted with my two colleagues. I direct the honourable member's attention to the existence of the Council for the Aging which this Government supports very considerably financially, as he will see if he looks in the Budget papers, and which does devote its time to the study of these matters. 1 do agree with the honourable member that studies on the highest level are necessary and I remind him that my Department is currently carrying them out. 
May I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Repatriation Bill as they arc associated measures. Separate questions may, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I suggest that you permit the subject matters of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)There is no motion before the Chair. It is merely a suggestion made by the Minister to the House. 
 in reply - I am grateful for the question from the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr 
Hayden). I am happy to give him the assurance that under this Bill the standard rate of pension will be paid even though both partners to the marriage are in the same nursing home, and if otherwise entitled they will both have the rights to supplementary assistance. I think there has been a certain amount of misunderstanding in this regard. Under the present practices of the Department of Social Services, which have been in vogue for a couple of years, we had created the fiction of considering a couple as not being married. This Bill will make it unnecessary to continue that fiction. 
Not only that; it will also have some good side effects for them. If they are considered to be unmarried they lose the benefit of the halving provisions of the Act and this in its turn may also affect their rights to supplementary assistance. The Bill will restore that. The Bill is not negligible. The honourable member is perfectly right that under that existing practice as it stands at the moment married rates of pension are paid only to a married couple living under separate circumstances in the same nursing home. The Bill will correct that situation. Therefore it is not a negligible Bill. 
As I said in my second reading speech some married couples will receive as much as $7.50 extra a week because of this Bill. 1 wonder whether the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  would allow me to correct a misapprehension which is in his mind. He referred to a table in my second reading speech. Unfortunately he misread the table and drew exactly the wrong conclusion from it. Those countries which have the higher proportions have the greater differentiations between married and single rates. If the policy of the Opposition were brought into operation Australia would then be on 50%, and that would be very bad by his own reckoning. I am afraid that the honourable member for Grayndler misunderstood the table and got it upside down. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
 Mr Speaker,  the agreement in question is under review at the present moment, as part of the larger context of the general situation relating to Australian citizens who go back to their homeland. At the present moment I cannot give any indication as to what will be the result of that review. 
Yes,  Mr Speaker.  Recently a sum of $95,000 was made available for this purpose from the capital fund in the Office of Aboriginal Affairs. The main expenditure for which this sum will be used will be in connection with the making of concrete bricks. When in Yirrkala recently I saw the prototype plant and I have every reason to expect that this will be a very successful operation. There are other minor matters for which expenditure has been approved. I have every confidence that there will be further applications made by the Yirrkala people and wherever a viable proposal is put up for Aboriginal ownership in that area we will be able to support it. 
CouldI say two further things? Firstly, there is an Aboriginal Benefits Trust Fund which is administered on the advice of the Board consisting very largely of Aboriginal people and in this fund there will be considerable moneys which can  be  made available at Yirrkala and elsewhere for Aboriginal purposes. I have no doubt that from this fund also, not by way of loan but by way of grant, there will be moneys available for the kind of purpose which is in the mind of the honourable member. 
Secondly, could I say that in the larger context, again there is a scheme for the development of Arnhem Land on an economic basis and the Yirrkala proposals will undoubtedly be integrated as part of that larger scheme. So I can say to the honourable member that progress has been made and will be made in this matter. 
My attention has, of course, been drawn to these figures. I would not anticipate taking any action along the lines suggested by the honourable member, but, of course, these are policy matters. May I remind him, however, of the facts. Wages and salaries are moving ahead very much faster than prices and this is the reason for what is called the overheating of the economy. The facts to which the honourable member draws attention are very relevant in this context, because they show that the proportion of the national income that is going to wage and salary earners is constantly increasing. This may be good, but at all events it is a point that honourable members on both sides of the House should continue to keep in. their minds. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read  a  second time. 
This Bill is designed to give . effect to another of the promises made last October in the Prime Minister's policy speech. Honourable members will recall that he then said: 
We shall give capital assistance on a 2 for 1 basis to approved institutions which give training for the various kinds of handicapped children - the blind, the deaf, the- spastic, the crippled and the mentally retarded. 
I did not hear one criticism of this proposal in the whole of the election campaign. I would take it that it has the support of the whale House. 
Under present arrangements child welfare,, broadly speaking, is a function pf the States rather than of the Commonwealth. There, are exceptions to this, of course - for example the $1.50 per day payment which the Commonwealth makes in respect of the accommodation away from home of certain handicapped children. But, taking it by and large, it is true to say that in this area the States bear the major share of the responsibility and have enlisted the aid of various voluntary bodies to help them discharge it. The Commonwealth, however, bears a large share of the responsibility for looking after handicapped people later in life. This is done through its invalid pensions, through its own rehabilitation service, through its subsidy to sheltered workshops and in other ways. I would not like the House to think that even in this sphere the Commonwealth bore the sole responsibility but it does bear a major part and gratefully acknowledges the part played both by the States and by voluntary organisations. 
It is vital that help be given to these handicapped people early in life, because a child - even an infant - is easier to train than an adult. Earlier this week, I was present at a spastic centre and I saw the devoted care which was being given with the objective of giving these people some degree of manual dexterity. The experts told me: 'If only we could have started to train them in childhood how much more we could have done, and how much easier it would have been'. Spastics, dyslectics autistics, the profoundly deaf, the blind, the mentally retarded - with all these and other groups the essential thing is to start remedial action while they are still young. To delay treatment has the triple effect of leaving them helpless for longer, of consuming greater resources in their rehabilitation and of militating against the effectiveness of the cure. 
As 1 have said, both the States and voluntary bodies have been making valiant efforts in this field of assistance to handicapped children. This measure is designed to augment these efforts without interference in the proper fields of their administration. The Bill provides for a $2 Federal subsidy for every $1 subscribed from private or local government, funds for capital expenditure upon training institutions for handicapped children. I would like to make the following points: 1. Eligible organisations are non-profit bodies defined in virtually the same way as eligible organisations under the aged persons homes legislation. 2. Expenditure which can be subsidised includes land, training centres, building additions and alterations, specialised equipment and fixtures, and residential accommodation. 
If the institution is working for them, the answer is yes. 
The other points I want to make are: 3. 'Children' include both handicapped children under 21 years of age and those who, although over 21 years of age, have had continuous acceptance in the institution since childhood. 4. Disabilities accepted include both psysical and mental disabilities. 5. Subsidy is payable in respect of buildings, etc., completed after 27th October 1969 - it may also, under certain circumstances, apply to land purchased before that date. 
I can assure honourable members that, in the administration of the Act, my Department will employ the greatest flexibility, with the aim of getting out effective help as soon as possible, while seeing that our resources are genuinely directed to the real needs of these children, lt is clear enough that there is still much to be done. There are, we estimate, some 50,000 handicapped children under 16 years of age in Australia, including both those who have some physical handicap and those who are mentally retarded. Probably Under half of these are adequately catered for by special facilities. 
This Bill will help the States, because it will free them from the need to provide capital subventions to voluntary bodies, or at least will greatly reduce the need for them to do so. Insofar as this occurs, it will allow them to devote greater funds towards assisting handicapped children in other ways. It will, of course, still be possible for a qualified body which receives a capital or maintenance subsidy from the State, to receive the Commonwealth subsidy in addition. 
There are few people who feel no compassion for the handicapped child - for the child who, because of severe physical disability or mental retardation, may be denied the joys of childhood, the .adventures of adolescence and the experience of taking his place in the society of his , fellow men. This measure is designed to help these children - but not these children only. Those honourable members who  have had any contact with parents of handicapped children, and I am sure there are few who have not, will know something of the burden they bear - willingly - but nevertheless a burden that can change the whole pattern of their lives. Social activities, holidays and often employment, as well as ordinary domestic living,, frequently have to be adjusted to meet the needs of the son or daughter who cannot become part of the normal family group. 
Nor does the problem end there, for ;t is on these parents that much of the responsibility rests to establish many . of the special schools, training centres and hostels which will enable their children to' live as norma! a life as possible. They are, of course, assisted by many good people who see this work as the most deserving charity to which they can apply their talents, and my admiration for those who voluntarily donate their time and energy to these causes is unlimited. No government could hope to duplicate the type of service that is provided by parents and those who dedicate themselves to supplying the needs of these children. A government service could not supply the love and sympathy and understanding that is no less necessary than the classrooms, the play areas and the special equipment. 
The Bill before the House will materially help some handicapped children to engage fully in the life of the community; others will be prepared for sheltered employment or at least achieve a greater measure of personal independence than would otherwise have been possible. The types of organisations that are eligible for assistance are as I have said, broadly the same religious, charitable and local government groups that are now eligible under the Sheltered Employment (Assistance) Act. Many of the organisations that have already received assistance as sheltered workshops can be expected to claim assistance under the new legislation for the benefit of the younger people for whom they care, including the provision of residential accommodation. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, this Bill is a practical measure. It takes the Commonwealth into a new area of welfare work but its purpose is to enable churches and voluntary organisations to improve and expand a service which they have been providing for many years. It is an area where assistance in one form or another is already being provided by State governments. The Bill will reduce the burden of the State governments as regards capital expenditure and will thus enable them, as I have said, to apply their resources more effectively towards other work in this area. Churches and voluntary organisations want to provide a better service for handicapped children and the Commonwealth wants to help them achieve that worthy objective. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hayden)  adjourned. 
This chamber is, in some ways, a disillusioning place. Most honourable members commenced their speeches on this Bill by praising it. 1 thought: Well, here is something on which even the ranks of Tuscany can scarce forbear to cheer', but very soon they were turning into Bronx cheers. That is an effective way of trying to kill a measure - praise it to start with and then say it is ill-considered and that nobody has thought about the details. Honourable members opposite have said that we should co-ordinate some things and that perhaps something better could be done. They do not dare to oppose the measure; what they do is try to diminish it. What the Opposition has been bringing forward in this regard is not altogether well conceived. Honourable members opposite have said: We want to get this Bill through quickly so that it can be operative immeditately.' This was their first comment. The Government wants to get it into operation quickly too, but since the money to be allocated by the Bill relates to what was done in 1969 there is no loss of money by a delay of a few weeks or a few days. 
In looking for the criteria for giving subsidies for this first year the Government will be taking any reasonable evidence from the organisations concerning the meals that they delivered last year. Honourable members opposite criticised the amount of $1 for every 10 meals and asked how that figure had been arrived at. It represents a little more than one-third of the cost of materials in a meal. Since it is a principle of the organisation to charge for the meals - that 
Wheels organisation - this allows the organisation to carry ob. The amount of one-third, or thereabouts, has not been taken at random. We did not want to pay something which is so much as to take away all the volunteer effort. We did not want to breach the fundamental principle of the organisation that it should make a reasonable charge for meals. This, I think, is the proper kind of compromise. 
Honourable members opposite, when they talk about the way in which this was not regionally applied, have forgotten that one of the fundamental principles of the Bill is that the organisation shall be able to donate its money to another organisation to be formed or operating in an area of greater need. We did not want to override the voluntary bodies. We did not want to get rid of all the elements of local involvement and of personal charity. This is the fundamental difference between the approach of this Government and what 1 believe is the Socialist approach of honourable members opposite, because honourable members opposite do not want the charitable body - the voluntary body - to be concerned. What they want to do is to bring everything into one great State-organised scheme. This can be seen from what has been said in the debate. That is the real gravamen of the- 
That is fine and I give every credit to the individual who so works but I say that there is a Socialist approach by honourable members opposite to this matter. Their demand is that nothing should be done which does not spread under some Socialist system. 
Honourable members can read their own speeches, if they feel so inclined. They will see that their speeches tend in this direction. If ] am wrong let them get up and say so. I would be glad to hear of this because it would be evidence of repentance - evidence that they are coming around to the Government's idea that the voluntary body with participation by the individual citizen is good and that there is a place for these voluntary bodies outside the area of State administration or government administration. That is our belief on this side: We want to co-operate with voluntary bodies, we do not want to annihilate them or override them. 
 Mr Chairman,  firstly may I set at rest the mind of the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  on 2 points that he raised.  If  he looks at the definition of 'delivered meal service' it says:   a service for the provision, wholly or mainly for aged persons or invalid pensioners or both, . . . 
This of course allows the kind of latitude  for  which he was hoping. The honourable member, and other honourable members, 1 think, raised the question of meals at senior citizens centres. I agree that it may well be that at times men and women may prefer  to  meet at such centres rather than have the meals delivered to their homes. That also comes within the purview of this Bill. The definition leaves this point flexible. I assure the honourable member for Newcastle that it will be interpreted by the Government in the most liberal fashion. We want to see that people get the benefit not only of meals in their own homes but also  of  gathering together, perhaps every Tuesday or Thursday, having a bit of a party and enjoying themselves. This also is within the sights of the Government in bringing this measure forward. 
In regard to what the honourable members for Reid  (Mr Uren)  and Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  said, may I reciprocate and say from this side of the House that I do not think any of us regard either of them as wholly bad. I would like to return the mixed compliment which they were both good enough to pay to me. Perhaps they paid me, in one respect, too large a compliment. Perhaps they tended to overrate the part that I personally played in implementing what is Government policy and something which must be regarded as being done by the Government. While it is almost impossible for me to say anything about the deliberations which preceded in Cabinet the adoption of this proposal, I would say that honourable members perhaps gave too little credit to the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  and other members of the Government in what they have said. I cannot go beyond that without breaching Cabinet secrecy. Let me come to what the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  said. I find myself very largely in agreement with what he was putting forward. It is true - and I said so at the start - that this system of meals on wheels has been more highly developed in South Australia than in any other State, much more highly developed, and this is due, as he and other honourable members have said, very largely to the initiative and drive shown by the late Miss Doris Taylor and the way in which she mobilised forces existing in South Australia. 
Now, as a New South Welshman I would not like to say it, but it may be that the citizens of South Australia have a higher degree of public spirit than the citizens of other States. I will not go as far as to say that, but I wil'l say that in one or two fields of social endeavour they have put the rest of Australia rather to shame. We have spoken of one lady but in other places there have been other people who have played the same kind of role. What is the phrase - and some there be that have no memorial? In this suburb or that town, in this State or in that State, the organisation of a charitable venture such as meals on wheels should be associated with the drive and initiative of one person. This is what we look for and in the smaller local scene it may be that the individual drive is what the progress of the country depends on. 
I give the honourable member the assurance that the money available will be available still in South Australia. It is not, perhaps, even in South Australia meeting all the needs of all the people but I think he is right in saying that it is meeting most of the needs of most of the people in this sphere. I myself have seen something of what was done in Adelaide. I recollect very vividly seeing an organisation at Port Pirie and finding out that in one or two other towns the development was not quite as good, but I hope that it will be improved. 
The Bill allows an organisation to devote its resources outside its own area to another organisation not necessarily in the same State. It may be that the people of an organisation in South Australia will! find it in their hearts to help somebody in Queensland or Victoria. This is entirely up to them. There is a great deal of flexibility in this. I thank the Committee for the way in which - taking it all in all - this Bill has been received and I commend it to the Committee as I commended it to the House. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill1 reported without amendment; report adopted. 
This is a matter of policy which will be considered at its appropriate time in the Budget context. May I say, however, that it has been the settled policy not only of this Government but also of its predecessors that social service rates shall be uniform throughout Australia. It is perfectly true that, in remote areas, particularly the Northern Territory, some costs of living are higher than elsewhere. On the other hand, in a warm climate, as it is up there, certain costs of living are lower. In point of fact, an inquiry was made into this situation and the disparity is not as great as it would be thought to be at first glance, although a disparity does exist. That is all that I can say on this matter which concerns policy and where there is a long established procedure and principle which have been followed by this Government and set by its predecessors. 
I can give the honourable member that assurance. I am not in a position to give him any policy decision in regard to it. 
by leave - Concurrently with this statement I am laying on the table of the House a schedule showing details of aged persons homes approved in Australia. This schedule is compiled up to 31st December last and I have arranged for copies of it to be sent to each honourable member and senator. Honourable members will observe that this schedule is compiled on the basis of Federal electorates, so that each honourable member will be able to see what aged persons homes operate in his own electorate. The information given shows the organisation, the address of the homes and the number of its beds classified into self-contained unit, hostel and nursing types. 
These figures incidentally are not quite comparable with the departmental figures for approved beds, since they include some beds which antedate the commencement of the Act, and differ in certain other minor respects. The total discrepancy from these causes is of the order of 350 beds. Copies of these schedules will also be available to interested organisations, and they can be obtained by these organisations on application to my department. If any honourable member wants a few extra copies I shall be glad to let him have them. 
Frankly, my objective in having this schedule compiled is to enlist the cooperation of honourable members and all other well-meaning people in the community towards the expansion of the Government's very excellent aged persons homes scheme. Each honourable member, on looking at the information for his electorate and adjoining electorates, will be able to see what has already been achieved and will be able to assess the scope for further action in his own area. The Government stands ready to assist, with its 2 for 1 subsidy, any eligible organisation which wants to participate in this scheme. 
May I draw the attention of the House to one particular matter. An organisation is eligible to receive the 2 for 1 subsidy on nursing beds (which themselves are eligible for the $2 a day and $5 a day nursing subsidy) to the extent of half the total of their self-contained and hostel beds. Realising that it is not always possible for an organisation which has self-contained units and hostel units to set up its own nursing organisation, some time ago I approved the arrangement under which two or more organisations may combine and cede their nursingbed entitlements, either to one of the combined organisations or to a completely independent nursing organisation. The objective of this, of course, is to give to the inmates of any aged persons home the maximum sense of security for their future. For these arrangements to be fully effective, it is desirable that information about nursing bed entitlements should be available among the organisations and this schedule will help to disseminate this information. 
Could I ask with some confidence for maximum co-operation from honourable members in the expansion of this scheme. The printed booklet setting out the principles on which the aged persons homes scheme is based is, of course, already wellknown to them. If there is any further information which any one of them requires either I or my department will be happy to supply it. 
I am aware of the wide spectrum of social services available from the 3 sources that the honourable member has named - the Commonwealth's own services, the services of the various States and the services provided by excellent voluntary organisations. The Commonwealth has already taken certain steps towards making these services more widely known. Honourable members will remember that I have circulated to them and to other people improved pamphlets showing the services available from the  Commonwealth  and I have caused these to be circulated fairly widely and advertised in the Press and over television stations. 
So far as the State services are concerned, these differ very much from State to  State.  But in every State we have a system of social workers who are available and who endeavour, insofar as it is their proper duty  to do  so, to direct applicants  to  those sources  of  State relief which are available. We have also improved and  we  are in the process  of  extending our regional social service offices and this is something  to  which I attach great importance. However, the difficulty  of  the bottleneck in expanding them further is the shortage of skilled officers who are capable of taking charge and giving to the public the sympathetic and efficient service which we would desire and which I am sure honourable members on both sides of the House would desire to be given. The third thing is the matter of voluntary organisations, and again honourable members will recall that the Government is putting a new emphasis on co-operation with these excellent voluntary organisations. I shall be considering ways and means of making their various but worthy contributions in this field better known throughout the whole community. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  I think that the House might return to reality when it considers the events of last night. The events of last night were important. We must see that they are never repeated. This is the important matter before the House. Each one of us here has great privileges. With those great privileges we have great responsibilities. Each one of us is here because certain procedures have been gone through in an election. It is important that those procedures be inviolate, that there should be a vote, that it should be a free vote and that it should be properly counted. Unless those procedures are inviolate, the foundation of this House goes. 
But it is true also that in this House there are mechanisms and procedures which must be considered inviolate. We do not just give an ordinary vote here. We, as a House of Parliament, give a vote and it is an effective vote because we are representatives of the people. Because we have been brought here as the consequence of an electoral procedure, what we do in this House has a force in law which does not accord normally to proceedings of other assemblies. We have a responsibility. That responsibility means that certain mechanisms must be considered inviolate. lt. may be that honourable members on one side or the other may feel that they have been badly treated. It may be that they feel injustice has been done. Well, there are available to them methods of protest which have been accepted by custom and which are part of the traditions of this House. If: an honourable member feels, as 1 have felt on occasion, that the ruling of  Mr Speaker  in his own case is a wrong ruling, he can go to the point of being thrown out of the House. This is a normal and accepted procedure. But he must not defy the ruling of  Mr Speaker  and refuse to go. 
The honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  said a moment ago that there was no violence in the House last night. There was a threat of violence when the Serjeant-at-Arms in response to the command of  Mr Speaker  came down and asked the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  to leave the chamber; the honourable member, flanked by his guards, refused to do so. A situation had been created where the normal procedures could be applied only if there were violence in the House - and nobody wants that. 
Let the House think of the way in which it has come to the edge of the abyss. Last night the House could have gone over the edge. It was only the remarkable forebearance and wisdom of  Mr Speaker  which, I think, saved us from that kind of disaster. 
It was not a hypothetical case. This happened last night. I want honourable members to face up to the enormity of what happened last night and to resolve that it should never be repeated. The House cannot work unless there is the sanction of honourable members obeying, in the final analysis, the command of the  Speaker  in regard to their conduct and in regard to their leaving the House when told to do so in accordance with normal practice.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I want honourable members to remember that we are living in a state where there is an infection of anarchy round about us, not only in Australia but in other countries. There is a breakdown of authority and people are endeavouring to exploit this situation. It has been exploited in other countries. The Communists are waiting to exploit it today. This is how they arc working. I ask honourable members, including members of the Opposition, not to co-operate in this plan to break down authority. 
Let us consider the events of last night. I shall not go into the conduct of the honourable member for Wills. He has apologised and I think we should leave it at that. However I do think that the conduct of the Opposition as a whole has to be examined, particularly since the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  has boasted that it is a matter in which the whole Party is equally implicated. That is what he said and I accept his words. But the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  is particularly implicated. What did happen last night? There was a defiance of the  Speaker  by the honourable member for Wills who refused to leave the House when called upon to do so in accordance with law and custom. The  Speaker,  because he did not want to apply physical force - the only thing left to him - suspended the sitting. Then the honourable member for Wills remained in his place and a kind of caucus meeting was held on the Opposition benches. The Leader of the Opposition participated in that meeting. [Quorum formed] 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, I was saying that after the suspension of the House last night by the  Speaker  there was some kind of sub-caucus meeting in the House at which the Leader of the Opposition was present. Then the House met again. The Leader of the Opposition had had plenty of opportunity to bring his influence to bear on the honourable member for Wills and to get him to withdraw from the House. The Leader of the Opposition had not done so. In the House he made no indication that he was going to do so. It is perfectly true that he was not allowed to debate the issue but this was not essential. All that the Leader of the Opposition had to do, if he has authority in his caucus, was to turn around and tell the honourable member for Wills to obey the command of the  Speaker. 
This morning, as I understand it, a meeting of the Parliamentary Labor Party was held and perhaps later on we shall learn what line was taken at that meeting by the Leader of the Opposition. I do want to point out that he had all the opportunity in the world to bring what influence he had to bear on the honourable member for Wills. There was a period of about li hours during which he could have done this. I am afraid we have to say that the Leader of the Opposition feels that he has to make up to the left wing element in his party. This is a most dangerous situation because he himself, perhaps as a weak man, goes left and he has the reputation, whether deservedly or not, of not being fully left wing. He is able to mislead people and allow them to think that the Labor Party has in it an inherent bastion against a left wing policy. But when the boys in the band really run the show, as they apparently are running it, then, as I have said, it is a dangerous situation. 
There is only one other thing of which I want to remind honourable members and that is the most peculiar shift which has occurred in the standards of the Labor Party. I want to remind honourable members of something that occurred in the debate earlier today. The honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  rose and said that in the past he had been traduced because he had been accused of being on the same platform as members of the Communist Party and, of course, this shocking slander had to be withdrawn. He said it was a shocking slander. Yet today the honourable member for Lalor is appearing openly in full collaboration with members of the Communist Party in such things as the Vietnam Moratorium Campaign. He is a collaborator with  Mr Carmichael,  the Communist, in a matter which is in the Communist interest. Now, this is a shifting of standards. A few years ago the honourable member for Lalor was able to pretend that he had been traduced because he had been accused of associating with Communists. Today he associates openly with Communists and finds no harm in it. This shifting of standards has taken place insidiously and gradually and Australia may not have realised how far the disease has gone in the ranks of the Opposition. That is all I have to say. 
One or two things of importance have emerged in this debate on the motion for the adjournment of the House, particularly from the remarks of the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Cope)  and the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns).  I think the honourable member for Sydney has a point when he says that an association between a member of !he Labor Party and the Communist Party is not necessarily a guilty association. That is true, but what one looks for is the nature of the association, it is not just the juxtaposition which makes the guilt. lt is the nature of the association. The important factor is the co-operation between the Labor Party and the Communist Party for Communist ends. 
The honourable member for Lalor was apparently very affronted because in 1964 somebody suggested that he had had an association wilh members of the Communist Party closer than in fact it was, and that there had been some community on a platform which involved a guilty association. He said at the time that it was an untrue kind of accusation to make. I invite honourable members to look at what has happened subsequently. 1 understand from published material that the honourable member for Lalor is the  Chairman  of a Vietnam Moratorium Committee in Melbourne. Included in that Committee is a man called Laurie Carmichael who is, 1 am credibly informed, a member of the Communist Party. This association is not just an innocent juxtaposition. It is an association for a guilty purpose. 
Of co-operation between the Communists and the Labor Party in a matter initiated by the Communist Party and of great importance to it. The Communist Party has succeeded in bringing the Labor Party over to its way of thinking and is now actively engaged in organisation in parallel with the Labor Party. As 1 understand it, there is considerable intermingling of ALP left wing and Communist Party personnel in this particular organisation. This would seem to indicate that there has been a considerable change in public standards. I say that, because in 1964 it was apparently a matter of great sensitivity on the part of members of the Labor Party that they should have any alleged guilty association with Communists, but today their guilty association with Communists is right out in the open. 
In organisations such as the Vietnam Moratorium Committee they are cooperating with Communists in a matter which is Communist policy, initiated by 
Communists, and which used not to be Labor Party policy but which the Labor Party has taken over from the Communists. This shows the way in which the Labor Party is dragged at the heels of the Communist Party and goes left - leftward the course of Labor takes its way. lt happens gradually and insidiously. Perhaps the electorate does not yet realise the way in which the Labor Party has sold out its soul and policy to the Communist Party. 
I can indeed give the honourable member that assurance. The matter is not altogether a simple one because, as the honourable member will know, the widow's pension, to which he refers, is paid subject to a means test, which, if it were applied to widowed fathers, would in nearly every case disqualify them from receiving a pension. However, I entirely agree that this is a matter which does merit consideration. It is receiving consideration and I am not without hope that there will be some solution. 
As an amendment to the amendment proposed by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  I move: 
Omit all words after 'House', insert 'affirms the right of dissent designed to change the law and Government policy by lawful and orderly processes but condemns the concept that such dissent may be properly expressed by violent demonstrations, by attacks on persons and property, and by interference with the peaceful activities of other citizens'. 
One notable feature of this debate has been the admission by one Opposition speaker after another that it is legitimate to have co-operation in this matter between the Communist Party and the Australian Labor Party. This is quite a new line for the opposition which usually takes the view that there is no co-operation between the Communist Party and the Labor Party. The Leader of the Opposition says that this is not significant because the Communists are not important. The importance of the Communists in this can be seen in relation to the observed policy of the Labor Party. Maybe the Communists are only small in numbers. Maybe the Australian Labor Party is a considerable Party. Nevertheless the Communists, as I shall show in a moment, appear to determine Australian Labor Party policy in this matter. It is as though one may ask: How can a great 50,000-ton ship be made to answer to a small rudder that weighs only 10 or 15 tons? This may be judged by the course that the ship takes and by looking at what happens. I would say that on the observed facts the great Australian Labor Party answers to the red rudder. 
This Moratorium, so-called, is not an exclusively Australian performance. Indeed, what is planned for Australia is only a pale reflection of what happened overseas. Perhaps the planners of it would like it to be something more than a pale reflection, lt is, therefore, to be looked at in the main setting. This Moratorium is a good instance of the 2 main Lenin tactics. The first tactic is the tactic of the United front. Lenin says: We will use the Labor Parties as a transmission belt to the masses and by using them as our front we will involve innocent people who do not know what we are really up to in our Communist designs.' This is the united front in action. Every now and again there comes a time when it becomes important, as it was at a time in the past and as it has become important now. The united front between the Communists and the Labor Party is now acknowledged officially by the Labor Party in this House. So the second Leninist tactic is that of revolutionary defeatism: In war one must try to bring about the defeat of one's own country because if you can get defeat and demoralisation you can get mob rule, violence and anarchy - all kinds of agitations which the Communists want properly under way. Revolutionary defeatism is the second great tactic of Leninism and the present Moratorium agitation - so-called - instances both these main tactics, united front and revolutionary defeatism: Try and get your country defeated in war so that there will be demoralisation and disorder. This title of 'Moratorium' some innocent people think refers to an attempt to get some kind of moratorium and cessation in the hostilities in Vietnam. If that were so surely the appeal would be directed to Hanoi, which has refused negotiations. No. Moratorium' is chosen because it is thought to be a respectable word, better than 'strike', riot', or 'mass action'. 'Moratorium' is used in the sense that it refers to internal tactics and not external policy. 
There has been a succession of peace fronts. The present Moratorium is part of that succession. We had Stockholm, the world peace council, and the Association for International Cooperation and Disarmament. Moratorium begat the other. It is a consistent line. It was only a few years ago that even the Australian Labor Party proscribed as a Communist front this spurious peace organisation which is directed not to peace but to weakening us so that we will be beaten. This is an appeal for demoralisation of our side; it is not an appeal genuinely for peace. It is directed to our side. This kind of thing is not allowed to occur on the other side. They can meet in Moscow as they are doing this month to have their World Peace Congress, but heaven help anybody in Moscow who tries to agitate for Russia or the Soviet's allies to withdraw their forces. This is not allowed; this is to be one sided. It is the policy of this infamous organisation 
I well know what the honourable member for Reid is at and what he is trying to cover up. I say 'this infamous organisation' but I do not mean that all the people connected with it are infamous - very far to the contrary. Many of them have been deceived and betrayed because they have trusted Labor leaders and their honesty. Many are good people who do not know what they are being used for. It is not the adherents, it is the organisation which is infamous. The same people that were in the old peace organisations, which even the Labor Party proscribed and which 1 understand the Labour Party in England still proscribes as Communist fronts, are now running the Moratorium. The documents are here. There is not time to go through them in the House. It may be possible to produce a paper setting out the details and the names but there is no doubt whatsoever about the involvement of the same people in the same kind of activity. 
Indeed the Communists themselves say this. I take the last 3 available issues of the Tribune', 8th April, 1st April and 25th March. Each one of these gives details of organisation and shows very clearly the extent of Communist involvement. If one looks at the literature which is being put out by the organisation one will see that it is being mainly sponsored by Communist controlled organisations and Communistcontrolled trade unions. Are honourable members opposite proud of their associates? I wonder. I wonder whether they really are proud of them. At all events they have now come out into the open which they have never done before and have said: 'There is this organisational link between Communism and Labor in a matter which is Communist policy, which was initiated by the Communists, and we have come round to their way of thinking.' They say they do not want mob rule. The honourable member for Lalor does not want mob rule; he only wants to mobilise the mob and hopes something will happen. He would like to have some kind of alibi if it did. He had better remember that mob rule is minority rule. There is no substance or sense in the proposition - the Communist proposition - that is being peddled by the Opposition that there is something great and democratic in mob rule. Mob rule is minority rule. The small crowd of activists, the minority, are the mob in action. 
I have been speaking about changes that the Communists have been able to bring about in Labour Party policy. One of the saddest things is the way in which the Deputy Leader of the Opposition has been changed and -brainwashed in this matter. I quote from the Press of 29th May 1967, when the Deputy Leader of the Opposition had been in Vietnam and had been able to see things at first hand. He is reported to have said: 
The Australian Labor Party may need to take a hard look at its defence and foreign policies as they apply to Vietnam. 
The report continues: 

 Mr Barnard said he was satisfied that there was a large scale invasion of South Vietnam by North Vietnamese troops. 'I am satisfied that this is more than just a guerilla war and I suppose it can be compared with the earlier conflict in Korea', he said.  Mr  Barnard was speaking at the end of his S-day visit to South Vietnam, part of a general fact finding tour of South East Asia. 
I have not time to read this statement in extenso but you will see that the Deputy Leader of the Opposition, having been in Vietnam, learned the truth. He learned the truth that we were there to try to save the South Vietnamese from invasion and incursion by the northern Communist criminals. He told us the truth as he saw it. The sad thing is that this man - I do not know whether he was the Deputy Leader of the Opposition then but he is now - has reneged. He has gone back on what he then knew  to  be true. I give it as 1 instance because it relates to the Deputy Leader of the Opposition and this should be remembered because it shows the way in which the Communist Party conducting a reign of terror through its pre-selection control of so many Labor seats, is able to intimidate Labor leaders and bring them around to its way of thinking. There are other instances of this but 1 have chosen to concentrate on this 1 instance because it concerns the man who is the Deputy Leader of the Opposition. He has now to explain his conduct and exactly why he has gone away from the things which he knew to be true. 
Now, the main policy of the Australian Labor Party has been switched and determined by the Communist Party in the same way as a little rudder steers a big ship. The great Australian Labor Party has answered to the red rudder. In the past the Australian Labor Party did not take this same kind of attitude towards the Vietnam war, as honourable members can see. Its policy has been changed because the left wing has changed it. I think that it is quite right to say that honourable members such as the honourable member for Lalor have been consistent all the time. He himself has always taken on this matter the same line as the Communists. He has been able, through his great influence in the Party, to bring his Party around now to his way of thinking. One does not want to underestimate the influence of this man. 
One of the great things that is emerging from this debate - I think that my honourable friend for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  drew attention to this - is the great selectivity which the Australian Labor Party uses in determining what it is to support. If it had been really honest in this matter, if it really wanted a cessation of hostilities, if it in point of fact were not being operated upon to act only in the Communists' interest, the Australian Labor Party would have come into this House and its members would have condemned Hanoi. They would have said that Hanoi has been the aggressor and that Hanoi is refusing to answer to the call for negotiations. These are just plain simple facts. 
Even if honourable members opposite take the view that all war is wrong - certainly, all of us hate war and hope for peace - why are they not comminating against both sides. Why are the diatribes reserved for our side only? Why do not honourable members opposite say something against the enemy for a change? Or is it that our enemy is their friend? That is the way honourable members opposite behave. That is the way that the Australian Labor Party is behaving. All its venom is for our side. None of its strictures are for the other side 
-R-[43] 
at all. In this whole debate T have not heard one word from the Opposition condemning the Communists. I have heard plenty of things about how our side is guilty of atrocities. Nobody wants to defend atrocities. If these things have happened they are terrible and should be censured and punished in every way. But the Opposition has said nothing about the well documented Communist atrocities. It may be, if one were to believe the reports, that some individual people on our side have committed atrocities. That may be so if the reports are true. But the reports also say that terrorism, murder and torture are accepted features of the tactics of the Communists. 
What happens on our side regrettably and reprehensibly on some occasions perhaps, certainly happens as a matter of set policy all the time with the Communists. For over a decade now the Communists have conducted a campaign of terror in South Vietnam. We have not heard one word from the Opposition against this - not one word. Why is this so? My honourable friend from Angas  (Mr Giles)  was remarking a few moments ago that the rape of Tibet never aroused any demonstrations from some kind of moratorium committee, or Save Tibet Committee or anything like that. Oh, no, this did not occur, because such committees, although they involve a number of innocent and decent people, are in fact the arms of the Communist Party and part of the Communist campaign against us and the rest of the world. Do not think that this is academic. Australia and Australia's existence and security are bound up with the holding back of Communism in South East Asia. 
Yes, this has been followed up and there have been investigations put in hand following upon the reports made by  Dr Kalokerinos  of Collarenebri. In addition to this some studies are being made at the present time in the field of remedying not only protein deficiencies but also deficiencies in vitamins and iron which apparently are very much concerned with the malnutrition of Aboriginal children in the period immediately after the commencement of weaning. 
It would be difficult for me to forget the insistence with which the honourable member has put forward the claims of Swan Hill for such a service. My Department is at present considering a plan for the enlargement of the very excellent service of regional centres which it is establishing. At the present moment there are 47 or 48 of these centres in Australia. I hope that we will increase the number. One of the problems is the lack of first class officers who would be able to take charge of the centres and give the people the service to which they are entitled. We have officers in training and we hope that the network will soon be augmented. I am not able to give the honourable member a specific assurance in regard to Swan Hill but I can give him an assurance that the claims of Swan Hill and adjoining centres will be very thoroughly considered in the expansion of the network that is planned for the near future. 
The answer to the honourable members questions is as follows: 
Yes. 
State Department of Health. 
These officers are appointed primarily to deal with Aboriginal health problems. However, as the locations they are stationedas can be con sidered remote and they are the only representatives of the Department of Health at these locations, they will, to some extent, be dealing with general community health problems. 
The honourable member's long and honourable association with the Government members' social services committee will have made him particularly well informed on this matter. What he has suggested is in fact correct. This Government and its predecessors have done more in this field to help migrants than any other government has done. It was in 1966, if I remember correctly, that the naturalisation qualification for pensions was removed. It was in 1962 that the residential qualification for age and invalid pensions was reduced from 20 years to 10 years. This applies equally, of course, to Australian citizens and other people. In regard to widows pensions, it was in 1952 that the residential qualification was reduced from 5 years to 1 year when the husband died in Australia, and in 1968 it was removed altogether so that the pension now becomes immediately available. I will be happy to provide the House and the honourable member with a detailed account of what the Government has done in this field, but I suggest to the House that we have gone as far as it is possible to go in helping migrants who meet some misfortune when they arrive in Australia. We have to have some tests, of course, so that the pension is not paid merely to tourists coming in temporarily, lt is reasonable and in accordance with the practice of other countries that there should be some tax paying or contributory history before a pension becomes immediately payable. It is true, of course, that pensions payable in Australia are vastly greater than the pensions available in the countries from which many of these migrants come. 
The Government does not underrate the seriousness of the position to which the honourable member very rightly draws our attention once again. We not only are examining this matter but have done something - about it. Perhaps the honourable member will permit me to tell him some of the things which have been done. The main thing, I suppose, is the conference which was held in Sydney. We called it the Workshop on Aboriginal Health, lt was held last December under the joint sponsorship of the Department of Health and the Office of Aboriginal Affairs. The conference discussed the position of Aboriginal health and came up with a large number of proposals for investigation and . action.  Dr Nercombe  is engaged at this present moment on a 3-year project of research at Bourke into the general overall position. I think we have subsidised this to the extent of $20,000. Professor Rendall Short, who is from the University of Queensland, is engaged in a long study into this matter. I think we have subsidised this project to the extent of $34,000.  Dr Kneebourne  is engaged in a project to study the essential intake of fatty acids in the diet of Aboriginal children. Professor Maxwell and  Dr Elliott  in the Northern Territory have a project going concerning Aboriginal health. 
These are all investigations which are proceeding at the present time. Among the things which are being done are these. In New South Wales we have put in $25,000 for community nurses in various rural outback areas, sessional fees to medical practitioners for ante-natal and postnatal care of Aboriginals, and we have got $36,000 which is going out in subsidies to the Far West Children's Health Service, Bush Nursing Association, Western Shire Dental Service, Daughters of Charity at Moree. Sisters of Compassion at Wilcannia, and the Save the Children Fund. These funds are being disbursed in practical ways to mitigate the position to which the honourable member draws attention. 
In Victoria provision has been made for a subsidy on vehicles for nurses visiting Aboriginals. A very big programme in Queensland includes a hospital complex at Lockhart River costing $91,000 and a hostel complex at Mitchell River cost ng $41,000. At Bamaga a hospital complex lor 
Aboriginals which will cost $217,000 and another at Hope Vale costing SI 00,000 are proposed. There is a plan for supplementary food assistance, which is of great importance, for children at Weipa, Aurukun, Edward . River, Mitchell River, Mornington Island, Doomadgee, Lockhart River, Hope Vale, Yarrabah, Palm Island, Woorabinda, Cherbourg and other places in this State. It is proposed to spend $130,000 on this project. 
I will not take up the time of the House by going into what has been done in South Australia. About $90,000 is being spent on various projects there which I will not detail. In Western Australia $150,000 is being spent. Even in Tasmania, at Cape Barren Island we have a medical social research worker subsidised. I want the House to realise that we are not only investigating these matters but also doing something about them. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The honourable member's attention is invited to the provisions of the Social Service Bill 1970, which was introduced into this House on 4th March, and my second reading speech. 
The provisions of this legislation will extend to pensioners living permanently in C class hospitals. 
Poverty  and Social Distress  (Question No. 129) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 1 understand that the report referred to was prepared for the consideration of the Victorian Parliamentary Liberal Party and has not been made public. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
At the time of its introduction it was estimated that the cost of the tapered means test in respect of the agc pension would be in the vicinity of $32 million a year and that some additional costs would also be involved in respect of service pensioners. It has' not been possible to distribute the cost of $32 million between persons in different age groups; consequently it represents the total for all persons' of age pension age, excluding service pensioners but including women aged 60-64 years. 
Claims for pension from persons qualifying solely as a result of the tapered means test are still being received so that it is too early yet to say whether the estimate of $32 million will be realised. 
Offsets in respect of people of pensionable age who are already in receipt of service pensions from the Repatriation Department and widows' pensions from the Department of Social Services and people who are mental hospital patients, have already been allowed against the cost figure quoted. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The submission made by the Australian Council of Social Service was received on 29th April 1969. 
The estimated cost of implementing those proposals which were not adopted in the Budget or which were only partially adopted is as follows: 
That the rates of unemployment and sickness benefits be raised to the same amount as age and invalid pensions with allowances for wives and children corresponding to those for pensioners' wives and children. 
Allowances for the wives of unemployment and sickness beneficiaries and for their children under 16 years of age are at the same level as those paid for the dependants of age and invalid pensioners. 
If the rales of unemployment and sickness benefit were to be raised to the standard rate of age and invalid pension, $15 weekly, then, based on the average number of beneficiaries during 1968-69, the additional cost would approximate $8.5m per annum. 
That the rate of unemployment and sickness benefit for young persons over schoolleaving age (and those with special exemption certificates) be the same as the adult single rate. 
Based on the average number of unemployment and sickness beneficiaries in 1968-69, the estimated cost of paying unmarried minors the adult rate of benefit, $10 weekly, would cost in the vicinity of $1,650,000 per annum. This figure is additional to the cost of paying the adult rate is unmarried minors with no parent in Australia. 
That unemployment benefit be payable for the whole period of unemployment without a waiting period. 
Unemployment benefit commences to be paid from the seventh day after the date of lodgment of a claim for benefit or after the date unemployment commences, whichever is later. This waiting period is not required to be served more than once in any period of 13 weeks. To estimate the cost of the proposal, based on the situation during the past 12 months, it would be necessary to know (a) the average period that persons granted benefit were unemployed prior to the date of commencement of their payments, (b) the number of persons unemployed for less than 7 days, their income and the number of their dependants, (c) the number of unmarried minors in age groups 16-17 years and 18-20 years included in the unemployment beneficiaries and details of any income they may have. 
None of this information is available and consequently it is not possible to estimate the cost of the proposal. 
That where by reason of his condition, the wife of an agc or invalid pensioner is unable to work, a pension should be paid equal to that of a couple who are both pensioners in their own right. 
No details concerning the number of age and invalid pensioners whose condition is such as to preclude their wife from seeking employment are available. Consequently the proposal cannot be costed. 
The additional cost of paying the married rate pension to all couples where the husband is an age or invalid pensioner and the wife is currently not eligible for benefit or is in receipt of a wife's allowance would approximate $7m per annum. 
That eligibility for supplementary assistance be extended to include: 
one partner of a married pensioner couple under the same conditions as payment is made to single pensioners. 
The estimated cost of this proposal is S3m per annum. 
unemployment and sickness beneficiaries in like circumstances to pensioners, i.e., who are substantially dependent on the pension and who pay rent, board and lodging, etc. 
Supplementary assistance is currently payable to standard rate pensioners who pay rent or for board or lodgings and whose means as assessed do not exceed $156 per annum. No information on the number of unemployment and sickness beneficiaries who comply with these conditions is available so that no estimate of the cost can be made. 
that a widow's net income (i.e.. after payment of Commonwealth income tax) be used in the operation of the means test instead of gross income. and that eligibility for the Pensioner Medical Service be retained by former widow pensioners who are employed, without means test, while there are dependent children in their custody, care and control. 
Insufficient data is available to enable the cost of these proposals to be estimated. 
Poverty in Australia  (Question No. 219) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Poverty was arbitrarily defined for the purposes of the survey. On the basis of the definition adopted, the initial results of the survey indicated that 21.2% of the aged population was poor. When income after payment of housing costs was considered, the proportion fell to 14.8%. 
At the second, more detailed, stage of the survey, additional income not previously disclosed was revealed and certain assets were taken into account. This reduced the proportion of the aged classified as in need to a figure of about 10%. If help from (heir families is taken into account this percentage is further reduced. 
The question of further increasing the rate of pension is a matter of Government policy, which in accordance with usual practice, will be determined in the Budgetary context 
It is pointed out that the initial findings of the survey were based on data collected in a period prior to 30th June 1966. Since that date, age, invalid and widows' pensions have been increased as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Section 9 (1) (b) of the Aged Persons Homes Act defines certain moneys that are not eligible to be subsidised, including moneys which have become available as the result of borrowing by the applicant organisation. 
In 1962 the Government gave consideration to the position of donations received by an organisation subject to the right of repayment in the event of certain contingencies. 
It was decided that where a donation made by a prospective resident was subject to an enforceable agreement that the money be wholly or partially repaid in the event of the donor vacating the home within a certain period, such money was, for the duration of that period, akin to borrowed money, and accordingly ineligible for subsidy. Organisations seeking subsidy are informed to this effect. 
Social Services: Reciprocal Agreement with Malta  (Question No. 305) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The question of entering into a reciprocal agreement on social security with the Maltese Government is being considered, lt is not possible to forecast the outcome of these considerations. 
See (I). 
Social Services: Reciprocal Agreement with Malta (Question No. 390) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The question of entering into a reciprocal agreement on social security wilh the Maltese Government is being considered, lt is nol possible to forecast the outcome of these considerations. 
Representations have been made from time to time since early 1968. 
See (1). 
Maltese citizens have always been eligible for age, invalid and widows' pensions on the same basis as Australian citizens. The requirements of the Social Services Act as to age, residence and means apply equally to all claimants. 
Sec (1). 
Homes  for the Aged  (Question  No.  410) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Under Section 9 of the Aged Persons Homes Act, money which has become available as the result of borrowing by an organisation, which term includes  a  local governing body, is not eligible for subsidy. lt is worth mentioning, however, that if a local governing body makes a grant or donation to another eligible organisation, such money may be eligible for subsidy even though borrowed by the council funds and does not have to be repaid by the organisation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There have been no requests for amendments to be made to the States Grants (Home Care) Act 1969. 
Under the State Grants (Home Care) Act it would be acceptable for a local governing authority to employ a social worker or welfare officer in connection with approved welfare services for aged people within its area and to seek the Commonwealth grant of half the amount of the person's salary. It is not necessary for a welfare officer to be appointed to each Club, in order to qualify for subsidy. 
Applications by local governing bodies for this assistance should be sent to the appropriate State Department. However, as the honourable member may be aware, the State of Victoria has not yet indicated its intention to participate in the scheme. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The difficulty experienced by some pensioner home owners in meeting the cost of rates, repairs and other charges is appreciated by the Government, and is one of the matters to which its attention will be directed in the course of its continuing review of the whole field of social services. However, as a group, pensioner homeowners are generally more favourably situated than pensioners who rent their dwellings. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
All States have agreed to participate in the programme of financial assistance provided under the States Grants (Deserted Wives) Act 1968. New South Wales indicated on 21st December 1967 that it found the then proposed legislation acceptable. Victoria's participation took effect on 2nd April 1970. Queensland agreed in January 1968, South Australia on 14th May 1968, Western Australia on 1st May 1968 and Tasmania on 26th April 1968. 
The Premier of Queensland advised on 6th March 1969, that Queensland would become a participating State in the Home Care programme covered by the States Grants (Home Care) Act and other associated legislation. 
On 17th October 1969, South Australia agreed to participate in the programme. 
New South Wales, Western Australia and Tasmania advised, on 16th October 1969, 10th November 1969 and 6th November 1969, respectively, that they accepted the Commonwealth programme in principle but sought reassurances on certain aspects. These have been given. 
Victoria has not yet decided to participate. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Section 21 of the Social Services Act 1947-69 requires a minimum period of 10 years residence in Australia as a necessary qualification to receive an age pension. Similarly, Section 24 of that Act requires a minimum period of 5 years residence as a necessary qualification to receive an invalid pension. These qualifications apply to all applicants whether they were born in or out of Australia. 
No. The only age qualification for invalid pension is that the applicant must have attained 16 years of age. However, a person who is receiving an invalid pension cannot at the same time qualify for an age pension. 
On reaching the age of 65 years (60 years for women) an invalid pensioner who does not possess the necessary residence qualification for age pension continues to receive invalid pension until such time as he becomes qualified by residence to receive age pension. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Many countries have contributory social security systems which provide superannuation type pensions in retirement. The details of these schemes vary significantly from one country to another, but generally they involve heavy contributions, particularly from the lowest income groups. In most cases, these contributions are compulsory and are therefore equivalent to extra taxation. 
The most recent available document which surveys the types of social security schemes operating overseas is the United States Department of Health, Education and Welfare's publication 'Social Security Programmes Throughout the World 1967', which gives the principal features of schemes inthe following countries: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Barbados, Belgium, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burma, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Central African Republic, Ceylon, Chad, Chile, China (Nationalist), China (Communist), Colombia, Congo (Brazzaville), Congo (Kinshasa), Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Dahomey, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Ethiopia, Finland, France, Gabon, Gambia, Germany (Federal Republic), Germany (East), Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Korea (South), Lebanon, Liberia, Libya, Luxembourg, Malagasy Republic, Malawi, Malaysia, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mexico, Morocco, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Rumania, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Somalia, South Africa, Spain, Sudan, Sweden, Switzerland, Syria, Tanzania, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab Republic, United Kingdom, United States of America, Upper Volta, Uruguay, Venezuela, Vietnam (South), Vietnam (North), Yugoslavia, Zambia. 
The publication is at present being revised, but it is understood that a copy of the 1967 issue is available in the Parliamentary Library. The complexity and diversity of the schemes operating in the countries surveyed by the United States Department of Health, Education and Welfare are such that it is not possible to provide a concise and accurate summary, and hence the publication mentioned above is recommended to the honourable member. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The question of providing further assistance in the circumstances described by the honourable member will be considered, among other proposals, in connection with the preparation of the Budget. 
Papua and New Guinea: Allowances to Members of the House of Assembly (Question No. 622) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Consideration is being given to the question of a reciprocal social security agreement with Malta. It is not possible to forecast the outcome of these discussions. 
HMAS 'Hobart'  (Question No. 754) 
I can very briefly inform the honourable member that this matter is at the present moment under the active consideration of the Government. I cannot give him any commitment as to when or if legislation will be brought in, but I can assure him that this very important matter is under active review. It relates of course to the responsibilities of my Department and also to the responsibilities of the Department of my colleague, the Minister for Labour and National Service. 
f  wish to make a personal explanation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(2) and (3) Supplementary assistance is paid subject to a means test to persons who pay rent, or for board and lodgings or for lodgings and who are in receipt of an age or invalid pension at the standard rate or a widow's pension. Persons in receipt of an age or invalid pension at the married rate are not eligible for supplementary assistance. 
Separate statistics of the number of pensioners in receipt of supplementary assistance at maximum or part rates are collected only at the end of each financial year. The following tables set out for each State and the Commonwealth, the assistance at the maximum rate and at part rate number of pensioners in receipt of supplementary as at 30th June 1969: 
Certain of the above details are already included in the Annual Report of the DirectorGeneral of Social Services. The question of including additional information, as requested by the honourable member, will be considered when the Annual Report for 1969/70 is being prepared. 
Rehabilitation: Home Employment Loans  (Question No.  613)  Mr Hayden  asked the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
What loans were available, at the time when the scheme was established, for rehabilitation cases who wished to set themselves up in home employment. 
What would be the level of these loans at the present date if (he amounts were adjusted according to the all States retail price index. 
What rate of interest was charged on the loans when the scheme was introduced. 
What is the present rate of interest. 
How many persons have (a) sought and (b) been granted (i) full and (ii) partial loans under the scheme. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as  follows 
Provision for a loan of up to 200 was introduced on 4th June 1955. 
$583. 
4)% per annum  

 *i% per annum. 
Statistics do not show how many applications were received, nor whether a full or partial loan was granted in each case. Since the introduction of this provision, five persons have been granted loans. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) It has been long standing Commonwealth policy that the rates and the conditions of eligibility for pensions and other social service benefits should be uniform throughout Australia. This has been the policy not only of this Government, but also of its predecessors. However this matter, which is a matter of policy, will be considered at its appropriate time, in the Budget context. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A maximum of $80 in any 12 months. 
When introduced on 10th December 1948 the figure was 20, subsequently raised to the present amount on 21st April 1967. 
$100. 
Statistics do not show how many applications were received, nor whether a full or partial alowance was granted. The numbers of persons granted allowances each year since the introduction of this provision are: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The State Ministers presented their requests for Commonwealth grants in 1970-71 in the fields of housing, health, education and employment. 
In the legislativefield, it was agreed that examinations of legislation and consultations between the Commonwealth and the Slates concerned about the repeal of apparently adverse discriminatory legislation proceed. 
In the field of health, Ministers decided that further'workshops', similar to one held in Sydney in December 1969, would be useful in collating expert opinion, identifying problems and indicating possible solutions to those problems. 
In the field of housing, Ministers agreedthat present efforts required substantial expansion. A survey in depth of Aboriginal housing needs by the Commonwealth Department of Housing in co-operation with the States was recommended. 
In the field of education, it was accepted that lack of opportunity in the pre-school ages imposed a permanent handicap and that the Commonwealth, in consultation with the States, should examine how the need at this level could be met. 
In the field of employment. Ministers noted that lack of suitable accommodation hindered young Aborigines from entering the work force, and agreed that the construction of urban hostels and other accommodation could alleviate this position. 
The Ministers expressed support for the Prime Minister's commitment to foster regional schemes, in consultation with State authorities. 
The Ministers agreed that action to protect sacred sites, particularly in areas of major development, was necessary and that such action should be taken in consultation with the Aborigines directly concerned. 
As the honourable member will be aware, there is at present before the House the Handicapped Children (Assistance) Bill, under which the Commonwealth will provide a $2 for $1 capital subsidy to institutions giving training to handicapped children. If training is given to children coming within the definition of handicapped, which includes mentally handicapped as well as physically handicapped, the institution will be eligible, upon the passage of the legislation, for a capital subsidy of $2 for $1. The Government has been giving some consideration to helping child minding centres as well. I am not at present in a position to give the House any commitment in relation to the other aspect which is an extension of the legislation now before the House. 
The question raised by the honourable member is serious and complex. One of the difficulties is that manifestation of this disease very often is separated by years from the time of original infection and therefore it is not easy to link cause and effect. In the Northern Territory we have carried out special surveys and an organisation has been set up within the Department administered by my colleague the Minister for the Interior,  and  with the co-operation of my colleague the Minister for Health, to cope with this problem. I am fairly satisfied that in the Northern Territory everything that can be done is being done. One of the difficulties in the past has been the problem of getting sufferers in areas where the manifestation of the disease is evident to report to the authorities. In the past - but not at present - there has been a tendency for these people to go bush, to hide themselves in order to avoid being sent to the leprosarium for cure. [7 May 1970] 
I am happy to say that this attitude of mind no longer is prevalent in the Northern Territory. 
In Western Australia and Queensland the State departments, in conjunction with the Commonwealth Department of Health, are paying special attention to this matter. I have asked my officers to do what they can to co-ordinate and help this campaign. I believe that in both States the rate of new infections is very much less. I have had statistics before me to show that this is so and I will be happy to discuss them with the honourable member if he wishes. The rate of new infections is, I think, much less than it was but always there is this difficulty of the time lag, sometimes of years, between infection and manifestation of the disease and therefore it is not always easy to be dogmatic about these statistics. 
Some time ago, my office constituted an Aboriginal Sports Foundation which, I am happy to say, is being run by Aboriginals, but which we assist. Arrangements were made to bring down from various parts of the Northern Territory a team of Aboriginal footballers. I have seen the team in action. This team managed to defeat a combined New South Wales team. It beat by a very substantial margin a combined Canberra-ACT team. When it went to Victoria, it beat the team of St Patrick's at Sale, which is highly rated, and a team at Moorabbin which is highly rated also. As far as I know - I am not up to date as to what has happened in the last few days - it has been undefeated in Victoria. We are considering the possibility of endeavouring to find in Victoria a team of sufficient standard to be sent to the Northern Territory during the football season to see whether it could give the Aboriginals of the Northern Territory a decent game. I refer, of course, to junior football, but I have no doubt that the same kind of thing is true of senior football. 
I remind the House of something that is sometimes forgotten, that is, that the first Australian cricket team that ever went to England was an all-Aboriginal team and it performed rather more successfully than a European team would have been likely to perform. This team came mainly from the districts of western Victoria, and it is interesting to note that it would have included kinsmen of Lionel Rose. Although I think he lives in the east of Victoria now, his family comes from the west of Victoria and there would seem to be, in that area, great athletic ability among Aboriginals. I repeat that if we can find in Victoria a team of footballers of sufficient merit we shall endeavour to see whether it can go to the Northern Territory during the season to give the Aboriginal team a decent game. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker- 
That the question be now put. Question resolved in the negative. 
The Opposition and the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson),  who just resumed his seat, need not .have any idea in their minds that the speech in Tokyo of the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  evidences any change of mind by himself or change of the Government's attitude because what he said in Tokyo repeats and emphasises what has been said here. Of course we want peace in Vietnam. Of course we want peace in Indo-China. Of course we want peace in Cambodia. Of course we think that foreign troops should "be withdrawn from Cambodia, but we do not think that they should be withdrawn unilaterally. At present Cambodia is the victim of Communist aggression. The Vietcong are sweeping down towards the capital. Is it suggested that it would be just for us to get out and for the Communist enemy not to get out? Should we abandon this other small country to the mercies of the Communists? Of course not. What the Prime Minister said - and I am glad to see that the Opposition is supporting it - is that we do want peace but that we do not want a unilateral withdrawal which could help only the cause of Communism. 
Honourable members opposite have said, very justly, that many of the people - indeed most of the people - associated with the Vietnam Moratorium Campaign are not Communists. I agree with that, but I assert that this Moratorium Campaign is a Communist stunt into which a lot of well meaning people who do not know what it is all about have been innocently sucked. I think this is something which stands on the record and which can be proved easily. One has to look only at the origins of this Moratorium Campaign to see that it is part of a long succession of stunts such as the Stockholm conferences, world peace councils and the Association for International Co-operation and Disarmament. The organisers, not just the Communists, are the same throughout. The organisations are the same throughout. This stands on the record. There is no doubt whatever about that. In New South Wales 7 or 8 years ago the Australian Labor Party declared, on ample evidence, that these peace fronts were Communist fronts. So they were and are. Today the British Labour Party describes them as Communist fronts. Here the Communists have got inside the Labor Party and have turned the policy and organisation of the Labor Party around; the Communists are inside the Labor Party, so that the Labor Party has changed from its old stand. This is a measure of the Communist victory. It is a measure of the Communist triumph. 
A large number of people - I would say the vast majority of people - supporting this Moratorium are not Communists. They have been cleverly shepherded by a Communist advertising campaign which has been conducted over the years and in which the Labor Party has co-operated - I say to its shame - and has helped the Communists to mislead the public. The honourable member for Lalor  (Dr Cairns)  has been doing this for years. It was not very long ago that the right wing of the Labor Party would have nothing to do with his campaign but now the right wing of the Labor Party has been brought round. [Quorum formed.] There is ample proof that this Moratorium was made in Moscow and exported via the United States of America. 
There are honourable members here who upbraid us for slavishly following America. The very name and organisation of the Moratorium is copied from an American model which, as I have said, was itself manufactured in Moscow and taken to America. It was not very long' ago that honourable members on the opposite side of the House would become indignant at what they called the smear of associating with Communism. The honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  who is not always up to date in these matters - I think he lives in the past a little - only yesterday was talking about the smear of saying that the Labor Party associated with Communists. This is not a smear; this is fact, and everybody can now acknowledge it to be fact. It is proof. What has been happening inside this House and what has been happening outside this House is clear and absolute proof of the close interlocking between the Communists and the ALP machine. So do not let us talk about this so-called smear. It is simply a statement of fact that there is co-operation between the ALP and the Communist Party. 
The Communists have used the ALP in a way which Lenin himself laid down, as T am sure some honourable members opposite would know very well. I am indebted to the honourable member for Evans  (Dr Mackay)  who was quoting Lenin's dictum on this matter in 'Left Wing Communism'. Lenin said to use the parliamentary machine; use the Labor Party. I shall quote exactly what Lenin said. Dealing with how the right wing of the Labor Party would try to keep the Communists out of trade unions Lenin said: 
We must be able to withstand all this, to agree to all and every sacrifice, and even - if need be - to resort to various stratagems, artifices, illegal methods, to evasions and subterfuges only so as to get into the trade unions, to remain in them, and to carry on Communist work within them at all costs. 
This is the way in which the Communists have succeeded in getting inside the soul of the Labor Party and converting Labor Party policy to their own use. Anyone who wants any proof at all of the way in which the Communists have masterminded and controlled this Moratorium agitation which, as I have said, has involved a lot of innocent people, should look at the 'Tribune' of Wednesday, 22nd April. Most of it is devoted to the details of how the Moratorium is to be organised: The Communists know these details because they themselves are making the arrangements. The honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  quoted the names of a few of the Communists who are in this. These are the open Communists, the people who are publicly known as Communists, but there are a large number of undercover Communists who are doing their work without revealing themselves as Communists, and it is necessary that people should be on their guard against them. There is one thing that has to be said in regard to this - and I am going to quote from the Tribune* of 22nd April, a couple of weeks ago. It put forward, for use in this Moratorium Campaign, the Leninist tactic of revolutionary defeatism. It says: 
Today, when the characterisation of the American-Australian war in Vietnam as 'unjust', aggressive1 and 'imperialist' has been widely accepted here, Lenin's view of an imperialist war should be more widely known. 
The 'Tribune' then goes on to quote from Lenin, and here it states the tactics which the Communists are prescribing for this Moratorium Campaign. It says, quoting Lenin: 
During a reactionary war a revolutionary class cannot but desire the defeat of its government  . . Wartime revolutionary action against one's own government indubitably means not only desiring its defeat but really facilitating such a defeat. An understanding of a revolutionary action even in a single country, to say nothing of a number of countries, can be achieved only by the force of the example of serious revolutionary action, by launching such action and developing it. However, such action cannot be launched without desiring the defeat of the government, and without contributing to such a defeat. The conversion of the imperialist war into a civil war cannot be 'made', any more than a revolution can be 'made'. It develops out of a number of diverse phenomena, aspects, features, characteristics and consequences of the imperialist war. That development is impossible without a series of military reverses and  defeates  of governments that receive blows from their own oppressed classes. 
This is the Leninist prescription, and the House will see, if it looks back at the history of the Moratorium Campaign, that this is the history of the Moratorium itself, this is the prescription for the Moratorium. What the people taking part in the Moratorium have been asking for without realising quite what they have been asking for has been unilateral withdrawal so that we would be defeated. They have been asking for disorders - they call it civil disobedience - so that the revolutionary situation could be developed. There is an exact correspondence with these Leninist tactics. There are some people who will say: 'Well, this is academic - does not matter very much - old hat' and so on. Let them remember the history of revolutionary defeatism and what it has done in Communist hands. It was originally put forward at the start of the First World War, and Lenin furiously denounced those of the comrades who would not join in trying to bring about the defeat of their own countries in war. In 1917 the Germans realised the possibility of this and they sent Lenin in that famous sealed railway carriage across central Europe and into Russia. In 1917 in Russia Lenin organised for the Kaiser the collapse of the Russian front so that in 1918 in France the Germans were able to switch their forces across. At the last moment they almost snatched a victory in the First World War. This is not something which is academic. It is something which nearly changed the whole course of history. 
Let us think of what happened from 1939 to 1941. In 1939 Hitler and Stalin were in alliance. The Nazis and the Communists were working together. The alliance was changed only when Hitler turned on his faithful friend, Stalin, in June 1941. Honourable members will perhaps remember the agonised squeals of Molotov, a man who has just died. He said: 'We have done nothing. Russia has been Nazi Germany's faithful friend. Why should they have turned on us like this?' I want to come back to what happened during that period from September 1939, when the war broke out, to June 1941, when Hitler turned on bis friend Stalin. During that time Europe fell entirely under Nazi control. During that time Communist parties in Britain, Australia and France tried to bring about the defeat of their own governments. They tried to impede the war effort. This is a matter of history. It is a matter of shameful history that at that time the left wing of the Labor Party co-operated with the Communists and tried to sabotage our war effort. It is perfectly true that the right wing of the Labor Party- people like  Mr Curtin,  for example - were not involved in this. If honourable members will look back at history and at what happened at that time they will see the tactics of revolutionary defeatism, the Communist tactics, applied in Australia through the Labor Party - or, I should say, through the left wing of the Labor Party. 
Today it has gone further. For the first time the tactics of the Communists are being applied in Australia through the official Labor Party. This is the difference. In those days, in the treason days of 1939- 41, it was only the left wing of the Labor Party that co-operated with the Communists. Today, unfortunately, it has gone further and nearly the whole of the Labor Party - I understand that some 10 or 12 members of the Labor Party are not involved in the Moratorium Campaign - and the official Labor machine are co-operating with the Communists. Do you see,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  how this has been perverted and diverted? It started off with a call for peace, but this has been developed into a call for a Vietcong victory. Only a couple of days ago in front of Parliament House the Leader of the Opposition addressed and incited a crowd which was meeting under the patronage of Vietcong flags. Those people were not just desiring peace. They were desiring a Vietcong victory and they were carrying Vietcong flags. It may be that the Leader of the Opposition does not himself desire a Vietcong victory. But by his co-operation in this Campaign he has been used and he has now been able to put the Labor Party as a whole behind the Communist Party. This is a very significant and very sinister development. 
If you want to know how much this Moratorium is, in point of fact, a Communist stunt, have a look at its one.sidedness. If you wanted peace, would you not be addressing your appeals to both sides? Look not just at the Moratorium Campaign itself but at its predecessors - the Association for International Cooperation and Disarmament and so on - and see what they did. What happens when Tibet is invaded by the Communists? There is a deafening silence. What happens when Russia walks into Czechoslovakia? There are token protests, perhaps, but no marches in the streets - nothing like that. 
What happened a couple of weeks ago when the Vietcong invaded Cambodia? It was not their first invasion of Cambodia, because for years they had had military installations established in Cambodia. When the Vietcong invaded Cambodia a couple of weeks ago, where were these Moratorium fighters for peace? There was not a word out of them. So you can see that this is one-sided. The innocent people who are emotionally caught up in this Moratorium probably do not realise what they have been let in for. They probably do not understand what has been done to them. 
They may say: 'Look, it is our business to protest against our own troops. It is our business to denounce what our troops are doing, not what the enemy's troops are doing'. If they say that, how can they associate with the peace movement as they do, because the peace movement has very strong organisational links with Moscow and, in point of fact, it boasts of having a large number of Moscow supporters. What happens there? Is there any agitation in Moscow from this peace front, protesting against the use of Soviet troops in those theatres? Not for a moment. They are the very theatres that our own peace figters find so objectionable. 
No, but there are plenty of Communist troops there. Where is the protest from the peace movement in Hanoi? The peace movement is said to be very strong in Hanoi, but there is no protest against the Vietcong there. It is not allowed. Where was the protest on Czechoslovakia? It was not allowed. The few people who raised their voices, as honourable members opposite know very well, went into prison in Moscow. There is a one-sidedness about this. The fact that it is one-sided shows that here we have the development of the Leninist tactics of revolutionary defeatism - of bringing about the defeat of your own government in war. That is what the Communists are told to do. 
I think the honourable member is well aware that this is a matter of policy and not one capable of being dealt with at the present moment. The honourable member will know that I and every other member of the Government endeavour to approach all these things in a spirit of sympathy and compassion and, within available resources, to do the best that is possible for pensioners and all other sections of the Australian community. 
My attention has been directed to this matter.  Dr Clair  Isbester is a doctor of considerable standing and her views have to be taken into consideration. I have had a look at the material which she was criticising. The position is that there has been concern expressed in certain quarters that Aboriginal women wean their babies too late. This was particularly so because, whether by reason of the nutritional factors affecting the mother or through other causes, the protein content of Aboriginal milk was inclined to decline rather more rapidly than that of European mothers. However there is a countervailing consideration that particularly where there is a fly borne infection the food can become contaminated and there is something to be said for postponing weaning in this regard. I have looked very carefully at the illustrated cards which were produced and circulated in this campaign and I am inclined to think myself - this is a layman's opinion - that there may be something in what  Dr Isbester  has said. Therefore last night 1 took the step of asking my colleagues, the Minister for Health and the Minister for the Interior, to have a look at this matter to see what could or should be done in regard to it. I think there is a phrase which is normally used: Who should decide when doctors disagree? It has been used in this House in a different context. In this matter I am sure that a proper medical inquiry will establish the truth, and I am not able at this present moment to say what is right and what is wrong. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The number of handicapped children in Australia is not known. In 1968, however, the Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics carried out a survey of persons suffering from chronic illnesses in all States other than Victoria. A chronic illness was defined as one affecting the individual at the date of the interview and one which he had suffered for more than six months. To date, findings have been published enly in respect of New South Wales where it was indicated that some 2.5 per cent of children under the age of 15 years were stated to suffer from one or more chronic condition which in some way limited their activities. The number suffering from multiple and single handicaps was not given in the survey report and details of the nature of the illness were not published for the relevant age groups. 
In any estimate of the number of handicapped children, the definition of the term 'handicapped' is, of course, important. 
The information is nol available. 
All State Governments provide centres for accommodating and training mentally sub-normal persons, including children, as well as subsidising certain private charitable and religious organisations assisting in the care and training of handicapped children. The nature and extent of the subsidy varies between States and between organisations within a State. 
So far as the Commonwealth Government is concerned, a benefit of $1.50 per child per day is payable to charitable and religious organisations conducting approved homes accommodating and caring for physically and mentally handicapped children under 16 years of age. 
In addition, the Department of Social Services provides rehabilitation treatment and training for young people 14 or 15 years of age who, without treatment or training, would be likely to qualify for an invalid pension when they reach 16 years of 
The report mentioned under items I and 2 above was published in June 1969 by the Bureau of Census and Statistics under the title 'New South Wales Survey of Chronic illnesses, Injuries and Impairments, May 1968". 
While no comprehensive details on the incidence of disability among children in overseas countries arc known to be available, a recent report by the British Department of Education and Science estimated the number of disabled children in the United Kingdom who required special education as 1.32 per cent of the school agc population. 
Nurses: Training and Conditions of Employment (Question No.  108)  Mr Whitlam  asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: (!) How many nurses (a) commenced and (b) completed training in each Stale and Territory in each of the last 10 years. 
What is (a) the entry standard, (b&gt; the length of the course and (c) the fee for the course in each State and Territory. 
What salaries, allowances, accommodation, books and other assistance are made available to trainee nurses by (a) the Commonwealth. (b) each Stale or Territory and (c) other authorities. 
To what extent are certificates awarded (a) in each State recognised in the other States and the Territories and (b) in each Territory recognised in the other Territory and the States. 
How many nurses were employed in each State and Territory in each  of  the last' 10 years. 
What was the ratio  of  nurses to (a) hospital beds and (b) population in each State and Territory and in the Commonwealth in each of the last 10 years. 
How many nurses &lt;a) resigned or (b) retired in each State and Territory in each of the last 10 years. 
As I understand it - I have been in touch with the Queensland Government regarding this - Comalco has offered 40,000 shares for the benefit of Aboriginals and it is also offering a number of shares,  I  think 1 50, to each employee, including Aboriginal employees. I am not quite certain of the details, but T believe that that is the nature of the proposal. The shares taken up by the Queensland Government will, I think, be held for the benefit of Aboriginals in Queensland but their disposition will, of course, be a matter for the Queensland Government and not for this Government. 
I am glad to tell the House that I was able to get Comalco to set aside a further 10.000 shares for the specific benefit of the Aboriginals in the Weipa area exclusively. These shares are to be taken up today by the capital fund in the Office of Aboriginal Affairs and they will be held in trust pending the establishment of some legal cooperative, to which they will be transferred, consisting of Aboriginals of the Weipa area itself. In this way the venture will not only be to. the advantage of Queensland Aboriginals as a whole but there will be a specific advantage for the Aboriginals of the Weipa area. As the House will know, quite a number of Aboriginals are living a little south of Weipa at Aurukun and I am hoping that, in co-operation with the Queensland Government, we will have a proposal for the capital development of that area which can itself provide a very good pastoral base for quite a major cattle industry. 
lt is true that W. D. Scott and Co. did. on behalf of the Office of Aboriginal Affairs, carry out a survey on the south coast. As a result of that survey certain policy measures have been put into operation. I shall be glad to give to the honourable member an up to date summary of the effect and success of those measures. There has been some impact. 1 would not say that the problem has been solved any more than I would say that the difficulties of Aboriginal education and employment have been totally solved in any part of Australia. But I can assure the honourable member that some progress has been made and 1 will sec (hat within the next few days he gets a detailed account of what that progress is and what is planned. 
The Wilcannia area in the west of New South Wales is an area which I visited recently, lt is hoped that some kind of co-operative organisation will be established there, but at the present moment I cannot give the honourable member a definite assurance. We are endeavouring to organise something on those lines. The problem of Aboriginal housing and employment in the west of New South Wales is one which is causing considerable anxiety not only to myself but to the Government of New South Wales. That Government has been particularly active in the functions of the new Minister, who has been in close contact with the area. I am hopeful that as our plans gather momentum more will bc achieved here also, on both the housing and employment fronts. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is yes. As early as 19th November last I was in touch with the Queensland Minister for Conservation, Marine and Aboriginal Affairs and he replied to me by letter on 27th November. At the beginning of February  Mr Killoran,  the Queensland Director of Aboriginal and Island Affairs, advised my office that his Minster had asked the Queensland Department of Mines to make a complete evaluation of the minerals on the island. He said that should the investigation by the Department of Mines prove that worthwhile mineral deposits exist on the island the Queensland authorities may approach my office for financial assistance to exploit them. 
If the honourable member would prefer that, 1 will do it. 
I can assure the honourable member and the House that the transaction of which he speaks was discussed fully with the authorities of the Queensland Government and that this Government and the Queensland authorities were acting together in regard to it. I want to make it clear also that the actual application of these moneys is, and I hope will continue to be, decided very largely by the Aboriginal people themselves. We would hope as far as possible not to interfere with the autonomy of these organisations any more than we interfere with the autonomy of sheltered workshops or aged persons homes. Although the Aboriginal people themselves at this moment may not be entirely capable of taking charge of all their affairs, nevertheless as soon as possible and to the greatest extent we want them to have the decisions about their own affairs in their own hands. We shall work towards that objective. 
In regard to the second part of the question asked by the honourable member, he may recall that the Prime Minister in his policy speech said that, in the lifetime of this Parliament, we propose to see that discriminatory legislation  adverse to Aboriginals is brought to an end - and I think that I can quote his exact words - on both the Federal and State levels'. Recently, at a meeting of State Ministers in charge of Aboriginal affairs with the Commonwealth, which occurred in Sydney towards the end of March, this matter was brought up. It was agreed at that meeting that bilateral conversations should take place between the Commonwealth and each one of the States concerned. I have little doubt that within the lifetime of this Parliament and in exact accordance with the promise made by the Prime Minister in his policy speech the end which we ali want to see achieved will be achieved. I hope that honourable members and those people outside this House who are concerned in this matter will see the desirability from the Aboriginal's point of view of bringing these things, about, without what I might call any kind of confrontation and by means of co-operation and consultation with the utmost goodwill between the 2 governments concerned. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No progress has been made on the erection of a health hostel al Port Augusta. At the request of the South Australian authorities money made available for this work has been diverted to the more pressing need of financing a water boring programme in the North West Aboriginal Reserve in South Australia. 
lt is expected that the building of the health hostel will commence in September 1970, with a completion date in late 1971. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
When child endowment was introduced on 1st July 1941 the rate for the second and each subsequent eligible child under 16 in a family was 50 cents per week. No endowment was payable for the first child. 
The minimum wage in 1941 was the Basic Wage. On 1 July 1941 the weighted Basic Wage for adult males in the six capital cities was $8.60 per week. 
Today the first eligible child under 16 in a family attracts endowment of 50 cents per week, the second SI. 00 per week, the third, $1.50 per week, with cumulative increases of 25 cents per week for each subsequent child. 
Endowment of $1.50 per week is payable in respect of each eligible student child between his 16th and 21st birthdays in a family. 
In June 1967 the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission decided to eliminate basic wages and margins from its awards and to introduce total wages from July 1967. 
The current weekly rates of minimum wage prescribed in Commonwealth awards for capital cities are as set out below: 
The rates of child endowment will be considered at the appropriate time, in the Budget context 
[12.1 a.m.J - In regard to the first question the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  asked, I can answer him very concisely. Sometime ago it was decided that where buses were needed for the transport of disabled persons in sheltered workshops they would be eligible for subsidy and the same principle will be applied to buses for the transport of disabled children under this. Bill. I oecd not go into the question of orthopaedic equipment and so on; that is obviously covered by the Bill. The second question the honourable member asked me was in regard to the appropriation clause and what would be in the Budget. I cannot commit the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  as lo what will be in the Budget; the honourable member will have lo wait and see. If he were to ask me whether this would cause any great restriction I would say 1 think it would be highly unlikely, but I cannot commit the Treasurer in that regard. I would consider it highly unlikely there would be a financial restriction in the Budget which would impair the effective operation of this Bill in the next financial year. 
The third question he asked me was in regard to the- sale of an existing building and so on. This ' is a complicated question which has to be decided in relation to a particular instance. I would nol like to give a commitment in regard to any particular instance but I can lay down the general principle that where an organisation has money, which is not derived from borrowing and is not derived from the Government, that money will be eligible to attract the subsidy. It will not be relative at all to whether it comes from the sale of an existing site; it will still remain eligible. Of course, I cannot give a commitment in regard to a particular instance without having a look at the full circumstances, but the general principle which I have given the honourable member will hold good. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
 in reply - I would first of all like to thank honourable members for their contributions in this debate. I will certainly take into account the constructive suggestions which have been raised by honourable members on both sides of the House. Nobody would deny, and I certainly have asserted, that there is still a great deal to be done in this field. I would have thought that the important thing now is to start somewhere and to do something. I know that there are honourable members on both sides of the House who have been personally interested in the matter of assistance to handicapped and retarded children and we have of course had the benefit of their advice. As far as I am aware this is the first occasion that a proposal has been brought forward in which the Commonwealth Government itself is interested. If I may I will answer a few of the specific questions which were raised in the debate. Firstly, I was asked whether the scheme covers autistic children. The answer is most certainly yes, it does. Secondly, I was asked by the honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson)  and also by the honourable member for Banks  (Mr Martin)  as to whether the spastic children in all their activities would be covered and the answer is yes. There will be, in the interpretation of the words 'training and education', the maximum flexibility. 
Perhaps I could read from a section of a draft leaflet prepared by my Department for circulation when this Bill is passed. It reads: 
In general terms, training which is designed to teach a child the activities of daily living, or which is of a social, remedial, pre-vocational, or vocational nature, will be accepted. So will general education for which special facilities are required. 
The spastic centres including the most advanced cases will, of course, be accepted. I was asked about mongoloid children and others of similar nature and the answer is yes, they will be covered. The honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  asked for some flexibility in regard to the admission of people over 21 years of age. I would not rule this out but I point out to the House that this Bill is meant to help children and it is not always in the best interests of children to have an adult stranger introduced into their environment. This is a matter where we always have to look at the individual case. The honourable member for Cook  (Mr Dobie)  asked me a question in regard to a subsidy for a building which was completed on or about the date of commencement of the Act. This is a matter of fact upon which I cannot give him an answer without knowing the facts. But again if the building was not completed before the time set down for the commencement of the Act I would say that it would be covered. However, it is a question of fact. I cannot answer without knowing the exact position about the building. The honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis)  mentioned the different positions existing in the States. I do point out to him that this is capital expenditure for new works and that those States which as yet have not developed a system of voluntary organisations will be just as eligible to share as those which already have such a system. 
If I may I will turn to one other matter, the question of survey was raised by some honourable members. Perhaps they are not aware of what has already been done and what is at present being done along these lines. One honourable member referred to the 'Demography of Disability' which was published last year. It related only to New South Wales but it was based on an investigation carried out by the Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics. The Government has agreed to the setting up of an inter-departmental committee consisting of my own Department of Social Services, the Department of Health and the Department of Labour and National Service to survey this whole field. The committee is at present at work. However, I point out the difficulties in arriving at any accurate result. We cannot really rely on a census. It is difficult with a census to be certain that people describe their children correctly. We can understand that even with the best will in the world we do not get from a census a good classification. This has been the experience not only in Australia but in other countries. However, I am inclined to think that we can get a better result by an intensive sampling technique applied to fairly restricted areas with great intensity so that we can obtain an accurate result from selected areas, and then by statistical technique expand that in order to get a figure for the population. But nothing is so satisfactory as determining a result from the applications for these facilities. 
It is always difficult to say, if a child is deaf or blind: Where is the dividing line? If a child is mentally retarded it is difficult to say: Where is the dividing line in this case? It is not always easy to decide, but if facilities are available the child who needs those facilities will be brought into them. I say to the House, and I think everybody will agree with this; that full facilities are not yet available and in point of fact the demand for existing facilities is greater than the supply. That is one of the reasons for this Bill. In these circumstances I do not think we will ever know accurately the numbers of people who need help until we have facilities available and until there is in these facilities a place for every child that needs help and can benefit by them. We can in the intermediate time, by sampling techniques and in other ways, find out more than we know at present. But I would not think that either in Australia or elsewhere can we get an accurate result in any other way than the one I have described. 
I think several honourable members made reference to Professor Dybwad. I had the privilege of meeting him when he was out here. My Department helped to finance his visit to Australia because we recognised him as an authority who could give us useful advice. I think we have benefited from that advice. May I say that the officers of my Department on matters of fact - not of policy - are always available to committees of honourable members, such as the social services committees of both Government  members and Opposition  members, and I hope that Opposition members will take advantage of this because I believe that in many of these matters we can have a thoroughly bipartisan approach in this House.I gratefully acknowledge the fact that on both sides there are honourable members who have had personal contact with these matters and who can give to the House and to the Department the benefit of their personal experience. 
I think I would adduce  3  proofs that what the Government proposes to do, although it does not cover the full field, is nevertheless useful and welcome. Firstly, I would remind honourable members of  2  letters which were read out earlier in the House which gave the opinions of the New South Wales Aid Retarded Persons organisation and the New South Wales Council for the Mentally Handicapped. These are extremely important organisations which welcome this Bill and believe that it will further their work. They are the people who are really in the field and who know most about it. Secondly, I remind the House that, although the Bill has not been passed by the Parliament, we have already something like  30  applications in the pipeline. Only today  1  received across my desk  2  provisional applications. The proposals that the Government has made are not only welcomed by those who know most about them but they will be implemented by those who are most active in the field. 
The third proof I would give arises from the remarks of honourable members in this House tonight. 1 instance the remarks of the honourable members for Bendigo  (Mr Kennedy),  Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  and Gellibrand  (Mr Mclvor)  who described, I think with great feeling and accuracy, the difficulties of organisations in the past - difficulties which would have been ameliorated and very much lessened had this legislative been operative then. If honourable members look iri Hansard tomorrow at the remarks of these honourable members they will see exactly what I mean. The Bill before us is part of a plan to help handicapped children, lt is not a haphazard plan; it is the first thing to do. I am not going to say it is the only thing to do. However I will go further than that - and I have in mind the remarks of my friend the honourable member for Cook in this regard - and say that this is part of a scheme to help the rehabilitation of disabled people generally. Here I am doing no more than quoting one of the main social service objectives put forward by the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  which is now to be translated into action. 
We have already had a- report from  Mr Griffiths  on the general background of the situation. I am not going to say that we know all the answers at the moment. I certainly do not. But 1 will say that we are working towards this end and the House, the Government and the country I believe will find that we will be developing not a partial plan but a complete plan. Although this plan will be carried out in parts they will not be haphazard parts. The correct thing to do is to start and not to delay or say that because we do not know everything therefore we should do nothing. The proposal we are considering is something that should be done, lt is not the whole answer but I think everybody in the House who has spoken has agreed that it is something that should be done. 
I repeat that we believe in helping and subsidising the work of voluntary organisations. They account for only a small part, of course, of our total social services expenditure. I would think that probably well over 95% of our expenditure on social services goes out in other indirect ways. But this last 5% is used, or should be used, in helping and expanding the work of voluntary organisations. There has been a gap in our services here. I think the honourable member for Robertson mentioned that the excellent legislation tha; we have on the statute book with regard lo sheltered workshops does not cover this kind of case. The Bill before the House will enable that gap to be filled. Disabled children grow up and sometimes they can be entirely cured. Some of them will still be disabled and retarded even when they are grown up. There is no dividing line here for the individual and we have to have a situation where the sheltered workshop is complemented lower down the age scale by the training institution such as this Bill envisages. 
I would say something finally about the relations between the Commonwealth and the Slates in this field. For the adult disabled person the Commonwealth bears nearly all the responsibility because il pays the invalid pension - the great matter so far as finance is concerned. Also, the Commonwealth subsidises the sheltered workshop system, lt does not bear the whole cost; the State sometimes comes in on the periphery, but in general you can say thai for the adult disabled person the Commonwealth bears by far the major share. Bui when you come to the child, generally speaking this is the province of the State, particularly since it is not always easy lo distinguish between the education of the partially retarded arid the education of the normal child, and education in the States is and remains a State matter at primary and secondary levels. Because of. this and because child welfare is something which requires more individual application than the granting of the adult invalid pension it is reasonable to consider that this is primarily a State function. in this area we have already done one th n. We have provided the $1.50 a day subsidy for the maintenance of children in residential institutions. This we do because it is not normally the function of the Stale to provide boarding facilities for children, although it is normally the function of the State to provide day education for children. The principle here is, I think, fairly clear. But we can also, I think, apply some kind of capital subsidy without interfering in the administration which properly belongs to the State. If we provided a maintenance subsidy great care would have to be taken because you do not want to have the position where you have two administrations, State and Federal, engaged in controlling the day to day activities of these centres. It is better to try to keep this day to day control in a single hand. As regards children it seems to me that it is probably better for the State to do this. Under our existing constitutional and administrative arrangements this is a sphere which belongs to the State and which the Commonwealth would be very reluctant to invade. But in saying that I agree with the view put forward by honourable members on both sides that more will have to be done in this field. 
As I have said, this Bill represents a start; it is not the finish. It is not based on any full research, because no full research yet exists, although research is being prosecuted. The Bill is based, however, on adequate research. It would be quite wrong to say: 'Do nothing until you have a full plan. We are getting a full plan. We think that this will fit into the full plan. We know that this is wanted and needed and we are going to do it, I hope, if the House will permit us, straight away. May I commend the Bill to the House. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr Hayden's amendment)  stand part of the question. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) It is generally accepted by pensioners and all concerned with their welfare that a surviving spouse needs more than half the pension income available to a married pensioner couple to maintain an equal living standard. This matter among others will receive the normal consideration during the preparation of the forthcoming Budget. 
As the House will well appreciate I am not familiar with the case mentioned by the honourable member. I shall be very glad, of course, to have a look at it if the honourable member would do me the courtesy of referring the papers to me. He correctly described the motives behind the Government's introduction some time ago of this amending legislation. The action taken by other people, particularly by States, does not seem to me to be within the power of this Government to control. The Government pays this money in this hope and with this intention but the legal rights in respect of the surviving partner are not determined by this Government and are not under its control, 1 will, however, have a look not only at the particular case mentioned by the honourable member but at the principle involved and although I do not think any legal action is available to me, I will see what can be done, without a great hope of being able to accomplish anything. 
I believe that the honourable member is correct in saying that the conference, which was held in his electorate, . was in point of fact a success. But 1 do point out that the conference was called as the result of activities of the Office of Aboriginal Affairs and was paid for by the Office of Aboriginal Affairs. The conference has produced a report which is being studied by me at present. It will not be ignored. 
The meeting was attended by some 60 Aboriginal delegates who came from church missions and government communities. They were chosen by the local Aboriginal councils and the delegates from country towns were elected by Aboriginal members of their communities to act as their representatives. The proceedings were entirely under Aboriginal control. But we did have observers present who have brought back to me an account of the conference, which I have here, as well as an account of the resolutions passed at that conference. 
It is unfortunately true that no Aboriginal can claim to speak for all Aboriginals. In Queensland, for example, a regrettable difference of opinion has arisen between various Aboriginal organisations. It is not true that from all Aboriginals we get the same kinds of desires and the same kind of advice. But I can assure the House and the Aboriginals of Queensland- 
I beg your pardon? 
I did not hear the interjection by the- 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A total of  16  Regional Offices of the Depart ment of Social Services already exist in New South Wales and, as a result of the recent survey, a programme has been drawn up for extensions to this network over the next few years. 
Necessarily in formulating a plan of this nature a number of assumptions have to be made in forecasting workloads, population trends, etc., and the programme must therefore be administered with some flexibility. However, the broad plan is to establish offices at the following places in New South Wales: 
Bathurst 
Blacktown 
Bondi Junction 
Burwood 
Caringbah 
Castle Hill (or Windsor) 
Chatswood 
Coffs Harbour 
Fairfield 
Goulburn 
Hornsby 
Hurstville 
Liverpool 
Maitland (or Cessnock) 
Moree (or Inverell) 
Nowra 
Penrith 
Port Macquarie 
Tamworth 
West Ryde 
The actual date of opening of each office will depend upon a number of factors such as the availability of suitable accommodation, properly trained staff and the rate at which the workload develops. The programme will, however, be pressed forward as quickly as possible. 
I will have the detailed figures looked at and confirm the figures given by the Leader of the Opposition, or not confirm them, as the case may be. I do point out to the honourable gentleman that the figures that he quotes would seem to indicate that average male earnings have risen faster than prices. This is to say that real wages throughout Australia have been rising. I would hope that the honourable gentleman, like myself, would consider this a matter for some satisfaction. 
The honourable member will be aware that the Government, through the initiative of my colleague the Minister for the Interior, has a plan to establish a village at Wave Hill settlement near Wattie Creek for the benefit of the Gurindji people. This is a pilot project which is now proceeding. I think it would be in the interests of the Gurindji people to wait and see how this plan works out rather than to attempt to throw spanners into the works. 
I was glad to hear the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  commend the work of bipartisan committees. We have before us the unanimous report of a bipartisan committee. 
It is a unanimous report, that the hours and days of sitting be changed. There are two duties of honourable members in this Parliament. One is to act in the Parliament in regard to matters of policy and the major matters which come before a national parliament and the other is their duty to their constituents. All of us know that there are things that we can and should from time to time do for our constituents but, more than that, contact with our constituents does enable us I think to be better members because, after all, we are trying to represent them. Honourable members may differ among themselves as to the relative importance of these two functions. They are both important. I for one would think that the former - the policy function - is the more important. But both of these functions are important and we need as much time as we can to perform them. One thing that is certain is that while we are travelling we are performing neither function. We are wasting time while we are travelling. If we can find some way of spending more of our time on these two functions, whichever one we may think the more important, we will be increasing our efficiency as members of Parliament. I take the point I think originally made by the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  and echoed by the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  that travelling in itself has some disorienting effect and may diminish our own efficiency in this Parliament when we are here. 
For those reasons 1 think we should support the proposition that has been brought forward by this bipartisan Committee. There is only one other thing I would like to say, and that is that I feel my friends, the honourable members for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  and Bradfield  (Mr Turner),  have not sufficiently considered the figures and details of the proposal because if they had done so they would not have spoken as they did in regard to one important matter. They said that the recommendation before the House would diminish the times in which the Parliament was in session. This is not quite true. If they looked at the figures they would see that under existing arrangements of a 3-day week the Parliament sits approximately 24 or 25 hours in a week. Under the suggested new arrangements the Parliament would sit 60 hours in 2 weeks. But including the proposed week off in the calculation, the weekly average would be just on 20 hours - almost exactly the same as under the existing arrangement - under the new proposal. So the length of the session would not be affected materially either way. I can assure the honourable members that if they look at the figures they will see they have made a slight arithmetical error in this regard because they have forgotten that the times we are speaking of are a 4-week cycle of 3 on and 1 off and a 3-week cycle of 2 on and 1 off. I would also say to them that they should look in more detail at the matter of hours, which we are not at the present moment considering but of which we will be speaking in a moment. There will then be ample opportunity to discuss not only the conduct of Committee business as it is at present but indeed ample opportunity to discuss how Committees can be conducted in a more efficient way. Indeed, anything which reduces travelling time and provides for members a greater total of time - which they can divide as they choose between their duties as policy makers in this Parliament and in preparing for their work in this Parliament and their duties in representing their electorates and keeping in contact with their electorates will increase also their efficiency as members, however, they may see their duty. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Commonwealth Laws: The only remaining Laws that could be regarded as discriminating against Aborigines are Section 64 of the Migration Act 1958-1968 and Section 423a of the Navigation Act 1912-1968. It is proposed to seek the repeal of these provisions. 
State Laws: The following State laws contain provisions that could be, prima facie, regarded as discriminating against Aborigines: 
Queensland - 
The Aborigines' and Torres Strait Islanders' Affairs Act, 1965-1967 and the Regulations thereunder; 
Vagrants. Gaming and Other Offences Acts, 1931-1967 (paragraph, (ii) of Section 4. (1)). 
Western Australia - 
Licensing Act 1911-1968 (sections 150-151) 
Native Welfare Act 1963 (section 17) 
Native (Citizenship Rights) Act 1944-1964. 
These and other related matters are currently under discussion with the State Government concerned. 
 Mr Speaker,  I ask for leave to make a personal explanation. 
Yes,  Mr Speaker,  It was reported in the Sunday Press that recently I visited Lake Callabonna and made an important archaeological discovery. Unhappily, the report is entirely untrue. I visited Lake Callabonna in order to acquaint myself with the work of a scientific team which was operating in the district and was itself making very important discoveries in regard to prehistoric animals which had met their death some 40,000 years ago in the bed of Lake Callabonna. I cannot claim any credit whatsoever for the discovery. A more serious matter, however, is that I was also reported to have brought back 'a carload of old bones'. This is a most serious matter because it is important for amateurs like myself who find any old bones in Australia to leave them there for excavation by competent persons. I did not bring back a carload of old bones. 
My wife did bring back one small piece of bone - the tail bone of a diprotodon - which had been discarded by the investigators on their rubbish heap. She took it with the permission of the expert excavators. I regret to say - and the House will find it difficult to believe me - that the dog at home did take to that bone, which had to be retrieved from him. This shows how well the remains in Lake Callabonna have been preserved for 40,000 years. 
As the honourable member said, Banks or Moa Island, which is about 30 or 40 miles from Thursday Island, has wolfram deposits that have been worked for some time sporadically by Torres Strait' islanders. The price of wolfram has risen dramatically recently very largely due to the withholding of major supplies by Communist China so that the world market is very greedy for it. The Queensland Government some weeks ago called for tenders for the exploration and perhaps development of the deposits on the island. It indicated when calling for tenders that it would be concerned with the degree of participation allowed lo the Torres Strait islanders in this venture. A co-operative of Torres Strait islanders was formed and the Office of Aboriginal Affairs indicated that it would make available from its capital fund up to $100,000 for exploration work if the islanders should be successful with their tender. It further indicated that if that tender were successful it would be in a position to help in the financing of any viable industry which could be established on Banks Island or Moa Island as it is otherwise known. On 29th July I wrote to this effect to the Queensland Minister responsible for Aboriginal affairs. Although I do not propose to read that letter out I shall be happy to table it immediately after questions so that the Commonwealth Government's position in this matter can be publicly known. 
We of course recognise that this is a matter for the Queensland Government to determine but we should be glad for the Aboriginals and the islanders to have the maximum participation in the exploitation of these deposits. To that purpose, as I have said, we are prepared immediately to make available $100,000 for the exploration work, if they be the successful tenderer. We have given an assurance that if a viable industry can be established there we would be prepared to increase that sum. As I have said this is a matter for the Queensland Government to determine. At the conclusion of question time I propose to table a copy of my letter to the Queensland Minister dated 29th July. I am confident that the Queensland Government, which the Minister has assured me will have the interests of the Torres Strait islanders at heart, will be doing its utmost to see that their participation in this venture is assured to the maximum extent, and the Commonwealth Government will assist in that very desirable objective. 
The claim was definitely untrue. The circumstances were as follows: On the Friday preceding the stoppage the honourable member for Macarthur asked me to receive a deputation of south coast unionists who were very properly concerned with, among other matters, the establishment of an aged persons home in the Bulli area and the establishment in that area of rehabilitation facil ities particularly for the victims of industrial accidents. Subsequently a  Mr Hibble  who is, I understand, both the secretary of the Liberal Party conference for the area and also the deputies and shot firers representative on the Trades and Labour Council, arranged for the calling of this meeting. A  Mr Nixon,  who is the secretary of the Trades and Labour Council, made a statement in the Press to the effect that my consent to receive the deputation was directly due to the pressure caused by Tuesday's stoppage. This was utterly untrue because the meeting was arranged, as I have said, prior to that date. I issued a statement to the effect that, since  Mr Nixon's  claim was untrue, although I would be prepared to receive the deputation I would not be prepared to receive him as a member of it unless he withdrew that statement. 
Yesterday the deputation came to my office.  Mr Nixon  was a member of it. At that meeting before other business started he told me that he had been misreported and that he withdrew the claim. I am not in a position to say whether  Mr Nixon  had been misreported or not. but I am in a position to say that at that meeting before the business started he withdrew the claim that he had made. I want to make it quite plain that this meeting was a proper meeting, that it is proper for the people of the south coast - trade unionists and othersto be concerned with the welfare of their old people and to be concerned also with the consequences of industrial accidents, and that if they wish to say something about the Budget at the same time then I am perfectly happy and willing to receive their proper representations. This is a matter in which I hope that the real things to be considered - namely, the welfare of the old people on the south coast and the welfare of people who may be the victims of industrial accidents - will not be made a political football, as would seem to have been the consequence of the published statement of  Mr Nixon  which he said was a misreport of what his words were. 
I lay on the table of the House a copy of the letter written by me on 29th July to the Queensland Minister for Conservation, Marine and Aboriginal Affairs regarding Moa or Banks Island. 
[4.251  -  ft is proper at this time of the Budget debate to look at the Budget as a whole and to see how its framework satisfies the real needs of the Australian community. I suppose that every Minister might be pardoned for spending some little time in looking first at the matters that concern his own portfolio. Naturally, of course, I am pleased with the allocation that has been made in the Budget for Aboriginal advancement. I hope that in a few weeks time I shall be bringing into the House a Bill which will enable me to talk about that programme at greater length. Regarding social services, I think that the House sometimes has been inclined to overlook that payments this year from our National Welfare Fund will reach the all-time level of $ 1,473m, which is an increase of SI 31m over last year or an increase of almost 10 per cent. Except for 1969-70 this is the largest increase in the whole history of the National Welfare Fund. Those honourable members who have spent their time denigrating the social service programme and writing it down might perhaps remember that. 
Behind this increase in expenditure from the National Welfare Fund there are several factors, and I should like to list three of them. Firstly, improvements granted in rates and services in the last Budget applied only to part of that year but now will operate for the full 12 months. Secondly, of the 10 per cent increase some 3 per cent, or nearly one-third of it, is due to natural population growth. In point of fact this year, for the first time, our total of age, invalid and widow pensioners will exceed 1 million. Thirdly, there are new proposals in the Budget. It is true that the increase in the base rate of pensions is only just marginally greater than the increase in prices. The real value of the pension, it is true, has not been significantly improved in the Budget. On the other hand it has been held at its previous peak and it is now as high, in terms of real purchasing power, as it has ever been. I do not want to adopt an air of complacency about this. I do not want to try to show that there is not room for further improvement. But I do want to remind the House that while the pension rate, which has received so much adverse publicity in the course of the last few weeks, has not improved in terms of real purchasing power, it is being held at an all-time peak. 
In the two preceding Budgets the real value of the pension was increased and I know that there is a natural disappoint ment that this continuing increase in the real value of the pension has not been repeated this time. However, I would suggest that the House might consider that one reason for this is that in this welfare field 1970-71 is the year of health services. We are bringing in major changes. Our available resources this year are being concentrated on our health scheme which is important not only to pensioners but to the whole community. Next year, with the health plan consolidated behind us, it will be possible for us to resume what I would call our pensioners' progress. I think that the House will find that this year of consolidation at the high level will be one which will be of great use in the development of our future co-ordinated plans for the improvement of all our social services. 
Very shortly - I think tomorrow - I shall be bringing into this House a Bill to increase pensions by 50c and I shall then take the opportunity to discuss these pension rates more fully and to lay on the table a schedule showing the changes in the real value of the pension compared with price changes. Let me summarise the position in regard to the standard pension in terms of the latest available price index, that is, the one for the June quarter of 1970. I want to make all these comparisons at the price ruling in this latest available price index. In calculating the real value of the standard pension at latest prices I have taken 3 significant dates - the date when the last Labor Government went out of office, the date when the first Gorton Government came into office and the present. I shall lay on the table tomorrow a schedule showing these in full. 
Yes. In December 1949, when the last Labor Government ended its regrettable course, the value of the base rate pension, at present purchasing power, was $10.08. When the Gorton Government came into office in January 1968 the value was $13.98. Now it is about to be increased to $15.30. In real purchasing power, therefore, the base pension has been increased some 55 per cent since Labor lost office, but this is far from the whole picture. 
During that period other ancillary services have been improved, but in particular a whole new range of fringe benefits has been introduced. Let me set out the more important of these in chronological order so that honourable members will have them in their minds. In 1951 free medical benefits were introduced for pensioners and aged persons were granted an income tax concession. In 1953 free pharmaceutical benefits for pensioners were introduced. In 1954 our aged persons homes scheme came in. In 1956 television licence concessions and an additional pension for second and subsequent children were granted. In 1957 we saw the introduction of the home nursing subsidy, in 1958 supplementary assistance for pensioners, in 1963 nursing home benefits, in 1964 telephone rental concessions for pensioners, in 1965 a guardian's allowance for pensioners with children, in 1968 the hearing aid service, in 1969 a subsidy for dwellings for aged persons and the personal care subsidy for pensioners and home care and paramedical services, and in 1970 the meals on wheels scheme. 
None of these benefits was available in December 1949. They have all added to the real value of the pension. Tomorrow I will lay on the table a schedule showing these fringe benefits in greater detail. If honourable members look at it they will see that these benefits add to the average pension something like $5 a week, lt is not possible to be precise about all the figures but it is possible to give figures with reasonable precision for a little over $4.50 of this $5. Some services to pensioners are not easy to cost but it is quite clear that their extra value is over $5 a week. 
I want to look at pensions in relation to what are called average male earnings, which have been mentioned in the House from time to time. It is perfectly true that average male earnings have risen a great deal faster than have prices, so that the real value of the Austraiian wage has been continually mounting. This is something which, to me at any rate, is not a cause of dissatisfaction. Average male earnings vary from quarter to quarter. Last quarter I think they were $71 or $72 a week. This quarter they are about $77 a week. I take the average for the year to be about $75 a week, which after tax would come down to about $63. 
Let us look at the person on the lowest pension, the person who has no other resources and who has to pay rent. What is he receiving? He will receive $15.50 under the new rate. He will receive $2 supplementary assistance and in addition he will be getting fringe benefits of the order of $5 a week. So his total benefit, after tax, will be a little above the one-third of average male earnings, after tax, which 1 believe the Australian Labor Party has from time to time set as its target. Of course, the base rate of pension may not be the best instrument for directing our available resources in the way that will most assist pensioners. Instead I think we should be looking at their more pressing needs and finding ways and means of satisfying them. Apart from food and clothing the 2 greatest needs of a pensioner are decent accommodation at a reasonable price and some security against the illnesses which inevitably come with old age. Looking at the framework of our past and present policies, we have tried to direct our efforts and available resources towards meeting these 2 needs. 
Let us have a look at how we have tackled the housing problem. Under our aged persons homes scheme we have approved payment of subsidy in relation to nearly 37,000 beds and that number is being added to at the rate of 4,000 a year. I hope that this rate will accelerate still further in the very near future. Last year we provided $25m by way of grants to the States to help the housing of the needy aged. Up to date not much has been spent, but the programme is now getting under way and this year the States expect to spend nearly $6m in providing accommodation for well over 1,000 of these old people. The various State housing commissions have included many thousands of aged people's dwellings in their normal programme under the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement. Of course, our supplementary assistance of $2 a week helps single pensioners in poor circumstances who have to pay rent. Honourable members can see how we have tried to direct our efforts towards meeting this housing need. 
Since 1949 we have dramatically reduced the hardships of illness for the elderly. Our pensioner medical service has added free medical benefits and free pharmaceutical benefits to the free hospital service. Our new nursing benefits - and these are of particular importance-of $14 a week for light nursing and $35 a week for heavy nursing added to the normal pension and added, where applicable, to supplementary assistance, make it possible for even the pensioner without any independent means to receive adequate care. Last year we brought in the personal care subsidy of $5 a week for people over the age of 80 in non-profit hostels. This was to help the needs of the frail who do not require specialised nursing. There are many smaller outlays in this housing scheme and associated schemes. This also applies to the health scheme and the fear of illness - the threat that hangs over the heads of elderly people. 
When honourable members look at this record of achievement and see how we have been directing our resources I think they will agree with me that the increase in the base pension rate is one way, but not the only way of helping pensioners who need our assistance. The Government is trying to direct available resources in the best possible way. Of course, our programme goes beyond this. The old oppressive means test has been drastically liberalised and we have recently brought in a tapered means test and further relaxation of taxation on aged persons. These things also will be set out in greater detail in papers which I hope to lay on the table of the House tomorrow. 
Having said this about my own portfolios, let me turn to some of the major issues in this Budget. It has 2 main themes or, shall I say, 2 main problems facing the Treasurer  (Mr Bury).  The first is the problem of potential inflation which had to be met by a balanced Budget, and the second is the problem of the primary industries. Let me say in passing that no section of the community has a greater interest than the elderly in the combating of inflation. I think that the efforts of the Treasurer in this regard, although they may have some aspects which are not entirely welcome, are those which, taking the longer view, will be seen by those on fixed incomes and pensions as really helping them in their need. I am not going to say very much more about this inflation question. It is a long and difficult one and the Treasurer has had to meet it by keeping expenditure this year within bounds. 
But I want to say something about the problems of the primary industries, which no Australian would want to overlook. Some of these problems are, we hope transitory. There is the problem of drought. It is a bad drought which may develop into a disastrous one but which may perhaps even now, in certain areas at any rate, be in the course of relief by rain. It is a transitory problem but a serious one. Then there is the technical problem of wool which like other natural fibres, is meeting competition from artificial substitutes. The Government is turning its attention to this problem. It is not easy. Could I perhaps make the side observation that in looking at wool and in looking at our future markets we might perhaps not be altogether oblivious of the possibility of developing further and better markets in mutton and lamb? Then there is the problem of what is known as the green revolution which has swept over Europe and America, and is now sweeping over Asia, where new types of crops, particularly wheat and rice, have increased tremendously the yield potential. So the threat of endemic famine which once lay over half the East now seems to be receding, but it has not yet completely receded, lt would appear that, barring unfavourable seasons and barring an outbreak of plant diseases, the demand of these countries for grain will shortly tail off and indeed may even cease. 
This is one of the facts of life which our farmers may have to face. To this there is one question mark and qualification. These hybrid and specialised strains - this homoculture, as it were - are particularly susceptible to disease. At the present moment a disease in maize has broken out in the United States and is making great headway in a very specialised crop which, because it is specialised, is particularly susceptible to its onslaught. I would think it is probable that the United States with its highly developed technology will succeed in controlling the outbreak. It is probable but not certain. But I am by no means so confident that if there should be a similar outbreak among the rice or wheat crops of the less developed countries in the East there would be the same likelihood of a favourable outcome. The green revolution does therefore have a potential backlash and it may be that this will call on Australian farmers once again to start feeding the hungry East. But apart from this possibility our grain exports must seem to have very much of a long term future - a year or two perhaps, a season or two, but nothing much for the future. 
There is one other thing and I think that this should be recognised by the Parliament; the trouble with our exports is the primary producer in other countries. All other countries say the same kind of thing as we do: 'Our farmers are good people. They are socially valuable. We want to maintain them. They can bring political pressures to bear.' Every country says this, and the enemy of the Australian farmer is not the man in the Australian cities, the city dweller. The enemy of the Australian farmer is the farmer in France, the USA, Great Britain, India, Pakistan, or name it where you like. This is what the primary exporting industries have to face. They have to realise that their real friend is in the Australian city because that is their permanent market, one which is theirs for all time. Overseas it is no use for them to say: 'Look, we are very efficient. We produce wheat or butter, or whatever it may be, very economically'. This is not relevant when other countries overseas, for social or other reasons, desire as we do to help their own farmers. It is putting our head in the sand to ignore this or to forget that the real enemy of the Australian farmer is the farmer in other countries which are our traditional export markets. 1 do not think we should worry about the theoretical reasons because the practical result is clear enough. There is always a tendency, both in primary and in secondary industries, to bring together the boundaries of economic and political authority. So political entities tend to expand as the Common Market expands in Europe and trade within a political entity tends to contract as every government tries to look after its own. This is something which Australia cannot control. This is something which is worldwide. These are not decisions which we make here. They are decisions made in Washington. Delhi. Westminster, or in numbers of other places. If we look to the future we must look to help our existing farmers and not kid them that Australia has a tremendous future as an expanding exporter of primary produce. This simply is not on. But what we have to do is to look to the protection and help of our existing farmers. They are our Australian people. These are the people whom we want to help. We do not want to harm them by giving them some kind of shadowy prospect in a dreamland which will never come, of their being once again the mainstay of the Australian economy. This is the kind of change which comes over a country not because that country has planned it or desired it but because of the forces which lie outside. 
Now, what are the forces outside? Some of them are even less pleasant than the ones about which I have spoken. We know - and we know to our cost - that some of our old securities are no longer with us and that a Treasurer, a Minister for Defence and a Minister for External Affairs working under a Prime Minister must have some kind of recognition and cognisance of this new fact. It is true, I am afraid, that the Opposition, if it had been an agent out to get Australia's allies to desert it, could not have done a better job. What the Opposition has done in this matter is a conclusive and clinching argument to show why it should never be allowed to become the Government. What Opposition members have said has been almost deliberately it would seem - no, I withdraw those words. I do not think that they knew what they were doing. But it would seem that their actions have been almost deliberately designed to get Australia's vital allies to desert it if any hour of need should arise. Here we are, nearly isolated in the Pacific and the policy of the Labor Party is to insult our allies and to ask them to abandon their friends in the Pacific, including us. If this were done deliberately, perhaps it could be understood. I do not think that it is quite deliberately done. T do not think that the Labor Party has quite realised what it was setting its hand to because it has had a good deal of prompting from behind the scenes from people who are not necessarily as friendly to it as they seem. lt is said that now the Labor Party is to deal with the Victorian Executive of the ALP. It will get the Reds out and get the Lefts out of the Victorian Executive. Well, this seems to me as though it will be somewhat of a shadow operation. But what is much more important is the other side of the picture. This is the fact that in New South Wales a balanced Executive is to be brought in. What does that phrase 'balanced Executive' mean? It means that the members of the Left - the proCommunists - once again have their foothold inside the New South Wales Branch of the Labor Party. Before the Second World War, and during that War, the stronghold of Communism in Australia was in New South Wales. Communism was routed there. But it is coming back now. The fact that a balanced Executive - it is the Labor Party's phrase - is going to be encouraged and permitted now in New South Wales shows the extent of the Communist reinfiltration. 
Some people say that Labor is polarised between the 'Hawkes' and the 'Doves'. In a sense, this is true because I have no doubt of  Mr Hawke's  ambition. But, in a sense, it is untrue. In Labor politics, no union is so unnatural that it is impossible. This is something which, unfortunately, has been for long characteristic of the Labor Party - and not of the Labor Party only. Look at past events. Look for Kerensky, the Socialist and the well-intentioned amiable man with Lenin behind him. If I were the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  I would not take my eyes off the honourable member for Lalor  ("Dr J. F. Cairns).  This is something which is tragic for Australia. It is tragic that, in this hour which could develop, perhaps at any time, into an hour of danger, we should have an Opposition which is becoming infiltrated in its objectives - and this is a matter of public record - wilh the Communist ideology. 
-I am aware of the industrialised nature of the electorate of Gellibrand and, without in any way trying to denigrate the electors of Gellibrand and the honourable member's constituents, I would say that I believe they share the characteristics of the Australian people. I hope that we are all working people. I am very much aware of the honourable member's personal interest in this matter and I am glad to inform him that my Department does have a policy of endeavouring to place regional offices in those situations where they will be of most benefit. It is true, as he has said, that in his electorate there is a large number of pensioners and prospective pensioners. It is our policy to try to pay pensions to all those people who are entitled to them and to have the knowledge of that entitlement spread as widely as possible. I am also able to inform the honourable member that only recently my Department has made arrangements for the establishment of a regional office in Footscray. I believe, from memory, it will have an area of about  2,000  square feet or a little less. It will probably have a staff of  6  or  7.  I think that the site selected for the office is in Nicholson Street.  1  would hope to have it in operation within  4  or  5  weeks. The exact date has not been determined but we are trying to get it into operation as soon as possible. I would like to be able to open it myself but, if it should prove impossible for me to do so, may I prevail upon the honourable member to do me the honour of presiding at the opening ceremony? 

I move: 
That the Bill be now  read a second  time. 

 Mr Speaker, the Bill does two things. Firstly, it increases the base rate of pensions - the standard and married rates and also that for widows - by 50c a week. Secondly, it introduces a long term sickness benefit, at a higher rate than the old scale. In regard to the base rate of pension, I have had prepared some information for honourable members which is fairly detailed and which, with the concurrence of the House, I incorporate in Hansard. 

<graphic href="069131197009033_12_0.jpg"></graphic>

Special Additional Payments for Age and Invalid Pensioners 
Certain classes of pensioners receive extra supplementary payments to meet special circumstances. These include: 
Supplementary assistance of $2 per week, for all single and married pensioners receiving the standard rate who pay rent and whose means as assessed are under $52 per year, with payments at a reduced rate to pen sioners with means as assessed in the range $53-$ 156 per year. Supplementary assistance is at present paid to some 105,000 age pensioners and 51,000 invalid pensioners. The estimated cost for 1970-71 is $16.2m. 
Wife's allowance: An allowance of $7 per week is paid for non-pensioner wives of all invalid pensioners, of all age pensioners who are permanently incapacitated for work or where there  is a child under 16 years of age. There are at present 23,000 wives' allowances being paid, and the estimated cost for 1970-71 is $8.2m. 
Guardian's allowance: An allowance of $4 per week is paid to single and widowed pensioners where there is a child under 16 or a student child between 16 and 21. Where the child is under 6 years of age, or an invalid, this is increased to $6 per week. There are at present 4,150 allowances paid, the estimated cost for 1970-71 being $962,000. 
Additional pension for children: Pensioners receive an extra $2.50 per week for the first child under 16 (or between 16 and 21 if a student) in the family, and an extra $3.50 for each subsequent such child. At present these allowances are being paid for 35,700 children at an estimated cost for 1970-71 of $5.6m. 
New Benefits for Age and Invalid Pensioners introduced under the Liberal-CP. 
Government  1951 - Medical benefits for pensioners Aged Persons Income Tax concession Pharmaceutical benefits for pensioners 1954 - Aged Persons Homes Scheme 1956 - T.V. Licence concession for pensioners Additional pension for second and subsequent children 1957 - Home Nursing subsidy 1958 - Supplementary assistance for pensioners 1963 - Nursing Home Benefits 1964 - Telephone rental concession for pensioners 1965 - Guardian's allowance for pensioners with children 1968 - Hearing Aid Service Special Temporary Allowance 1969 - Subsidy for Dwellings for Aged Persons Personal care subsidy for Aged Pensioners Home care and paramedical services 1970 - Meals on wheels subsidy 
Fringe' Benefits for Age and Invalid Pensioners 
The following benefits are available to all pensioners except those in the 'New Taper Area' - i.e., those without children whose assessed means exceeds $25.50 per week (single) or$48 per week (married). 
Those benefits marked with an asterisk are available to eligible pensioners, irrespective of their means. 
Pensioner Medical Service 
These come under three heads: 
Medical benefits 
Hospital benefits 
Pharmaceutical benefits 
Medical benefits: A pensioner receives free consultation from a general practitioner both in his own home and in the doctor's surgery. He receives free specialist treatment as an outpatient at any public hospital. Thus the pensioner receives what is roughly equivalent to what an insured person would get, but he, unlike the normal insured person, does not have to pay for the 'gap' out of his own pocket. (This 'gap' is $0.80 per surgery visit. $1.20 per home visit and a maximum of $5- probably an average of about $2.50 - for a specialist service). But it should be remembered that on the average a pensioner with dependants has over 8 GP consultations per year, whereas the corresponding average for nonpensioner insured persons is under 4 such consultations per year. The cost to the Commonwealth Government in respect of medical benefits for pensioners is approximately $20m p.a. for about 1 million pensioners - say $20 per head per year, or 40c per week. 
Hospital benefits: Pensioners receive free treatment in public wards of public hospitals, together with all the ancillary medical services which go with it. The direct payment from the Commonwealth to hospitals on account of pensioners is estimated this year at $26. 8m. This represents $5 per day for each pensioner patient; but since the total cost in a public ward is about $18 per day, the total benefit to pen- 
18 
sioners for the year would be - x 5526. 8m 
 5 
-i.e.,$96.5m. Averaged over 1.000,000 pensioners, this would be$96.50 per head per year or $1.80 per week. 
Pharmaceutical benefits: Pensioners receive their pharmaceuticals free, without the 50c fee per prescription which other people pay. The list of drugs available under the pensioner medical service includes all drugs on the health benefits list plus some extra. The pensioners average 18.7 prescriptions per head per year, about4 times the non-pensioner average of 3.9 prescriptions per year. The estimated cost of pharmaceutical benefits for pensioners this year is $45.9m-i.e., about $45.90 per head per year or about 90c per week. 
Summary: The cost of the pensioner medical service is thus approximately 

<graphic href="069131197009033_14_0.jpg"></graphic>

* Nursing Home Benefits 
Pensioners are entitled to nursing home benefits of $14 per week for light nursing and $35 per week heavy nursing, in addition to their pension and, where applicable, supplementary assistance. These benefits are available in any approved nursing home, including both profit and non-profit homes. (In practice, about 40 per cent of nursing cases are classified as 'heavy nursing'). 
The cost of nursing home benefits is estimated this year at some $48m. Since three-quarters of the patients are age or invalid pensioners, the pensioner cost is some $36m per annum, or an average of about $40 per head for 900,000 age and invalid pensioners, i.e. 80c per head per week. 

<graphic href="069131197009033_14_1.jpg"></graphic>

This is an average of 6c per for 900,000 age and invalid pensioners. 
* Personal Care Subsidy 
A payment of $5 per week is made to  hostel-type non-profit institutions for each resident over 80 years of age. 
The total cost per year is estimated at $1.6m. Averaged over almost 800,000 age pensioners this would be $2 per head per year or 4c per week. 
Telephone, Radio and TV Concessions Pensioners living apart from nonpensioners receive: 
A concession of of their telephone rental. Approximately 190,000 telephones receive this concession, at a cost to revenue of over $2. 5m per year. 
Pensioners' radio licences cost $1 per year within 250 miles of a national station, as against the normal rate of $6.50. Over 99 per cent of pensioners' radio licences are in this area; outside it the pensioner pays 70c per year against the normal fee of $3.30. A pensioner's TV licence costs $3 per year, as against the normal fee of $14. 
There are approximately 87,000 pensioners radio licences current, 34,000 pensioners TV licences, and 342,000 pensioners combined radio and TV licences. The value of this concession is over $6.3m per annum. 
The total value of these telephone, radio and TV concessions is thus over $8.8m per year - an average of $8.80 per year or 17c per week over 1,000,000 pensioners. 
Housing 
There are three main ways in which pensioners get special housing benefits. 
The Aged Persons Homes scheme, established in 1954. 
The Dwellings for Aged Persons scheme, financed by the Commonwealth but administered through the States, which commenced in 1969. 
Rental concessions for aged pensioners on units erected by State Housing Commissions under the CommonwealthState Housing Agreement, which first became effective in this field in 1950. 
* The Aged Persons Homes Scheme: Under this scheme the Commonwealth pays two-thirds of the capital cost (up to a subsidy limit of $4,800 for a single unit and $6,000 for a double unit) of accommodation for persons of pensionable age conducted by non-profit organisations. This accommodation can be of any one of three types or a combination of them, namely independent living in an ordinary type flat or cottage, hostel-type living with individual rooms but community services for meals etc., or nursing home accommodation for those who are unable to care for themselves. To date, approval has been given as under: 

<graphic href="069131197009033_15_0.jpg"></graphic>

Approved subsidies to date total $1 10.6m, and the estimated subsidy for this year is $14m. In addition to this, some $7m will come into the scheme from private charity, so that occupants, over 80 per cent of whom are pensioners, will benefit by some $21m this year. Pensioners among the occupants will benefit by at least $17m this year from the Aged Persons Homes scheme. 
Dwellings for Aged Persons: Last year the Commonwealth made available a grant of $25m to the States for the housing of aged pensioners in necessitous circum stances. Expenditure under this head is now gathering way, and in 1970-71 it is estimated that $5.7m will be spent, providing accommodation for over1,000 persons. 
* Rental rebates: The various State Housing Commissions, from funds under the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement, commenced in 1950 to make units available to aged persons at concessional rentals - a policy which is still proceeding. It is estimated that at present some 15.000 persons benefit under the scheme, with rental rebates averaging in excess of $200 per year. Benefit to pensioners can thus be estimated at $3m per annum. 
Housing Summary - 

<graphic href="069131197009033_15_1.jpg"></graphic>

This is an average of$32.13 per head per year (61c per week) for 800.000 pensioners. 
Travel Concessions 
State and Commonwealth transport systems give special fare concessions to age and invalid pensioners. These differ from State to State, and may be summarised as follows: 

<graphic href="069131197009033_15_2.jpg"></graphic>

There is no firm information as to the value of these concessions, but they are clearly of major benefit to pensioners. It would not be unreasonable to average them at over 25c per week, but this estimate must be regarded as conjectural at the present stage. It is more likely to be too low than too high. 
Local Rate Concessions 
New South Wales: Local authorities, at their discretion, may write-off or reduce rates due by social service pensioners and certain repatriation pensioners and receive from the State Government 50 per cent of any rebate allowed. The cost of rate remissions to the State Government in 1968-69 was about SI. 85m, and thus the total cost of remission in that year was approximately $3.7m. Some local authorities allow rates to accumulate and become a charge against the estate of the pensioner, others do not grant any assistance with rates. There are no rebates on metropolitan water board rates but payment may be made in instalments and any arrears at the death of the pensioner are recovered from his estate. In 1967-68 about 66 per cent of local authorities exercised their power to reduce or write-off rates. The extent of deferrals of rates by local authorities is unknown. 
Victoria: Local authorities may remit, excuse or defer payment of rates and interest thereon by persons in necessitous circumstances for such time as the local authorities see fit. Payments deferred remain a charge on the property. Similar provisions apply to water and sewerage rates. However, it is customary for the Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works to require payment of $20, the opportunity being given to defer the balance. 
Queensland: Local authorities may grant rate remissions to pensioners. The amounts remitted are normally between 25 and 50 per cent of the general rate. Some local authorities give no concessions, others allow the rates to accumulate until the death of the ratepayer. The term 'rates' includes sewerage, cleansing and water charges. 
South Australia: Local authorities may remit or defer rates to a person in necessitous circumstances. Water and sewerage rates may also be deferred. Rates deferred remain a charge on the property and are payable on its sale or at the death of the ratepayer. 
Western Australia: Social service and certain repatriation pensioners may claim exemption from the payment of rates and other charges. While the rates remain unpaid they are a charge against the land until its sale or transfer, the death of the pensioner or until the pensioner ceases to be eligible for exemption, whichever occurs first. 
Tasmania: The Local Government Act provides that local authorities may remit or excuse all or part of rates upon application from pensioners, persons *in indigent or poor circumstances', and certain other persons. Payment of rates may also be deferred. The term 'rates' includes water and sewerage charges. About 80 per cent of local authorities offer a rebate. 
Northern Territory: Land rent may be reduced or remitted to social service and certain repatriation pensioners and other persons who would suffer hardship by their payment. Assistance is also given to pensioners to meet water charges. Garbage charges may be deferred and recovered from the estate of the persons assisted. 
Australian Capital Territory: The Land Rent and Rates (Deferment) Ordinance provides for deferment of part of the land rent and rates of certain social service and repatriation pensioners and to other persons who would suffer hardship from the payment of these charges. The deferred amounts are regarded as a debt to the Commonwealth earning interest at 5 per cent per annum. The debt becomes repayable on the sale or transfer of the property or on the death of the owner. 
Remission of pensioners rates does not seem to be widespread outside New South Wales, where $3.7m per year is involved. The Australian total is probably about $5m per year - an average of about $5 per year per pensioner (10 cents per week). Deferment of pensioners rates appears to be much commoner, but here again no firm figures are available. 
Aged Persons Tax Concessions 
Age pensions are regarded as taxable in many countries, but in Australia they are exempt from taxation. In addition, in Australia persons of pensionable age may receive considerable tax concessions on their income from sources other than pension (these tax concessions also apply to non-pensioners). Single persons of pensionable age pay no tax if their taxable income is less than $1,326 per year, and reduced tax if it is in the range $l,327-$2,273 per year. Married couples, where one or both is of pensionable age, pay no tax when their combined taxable income is less than $2,314 per year, and reduced tax if it is in the range $2,315-$4,102 per year. The following tables may give some idea of the position: 

<graphic href="069131197009033_17_6.jpg"></graphic>

It is not possible to ascertain how much of this benefit goes to pensioners and how much to non-pensioners on a modest income. Both will benefit, but those pensioners who are without independent means will obviously not benefit from this tax concession, unless the fine point be taken that the Australian practice of exempting pension income from taxation does in fact confer a tax concession upon them. In calculating the value of 'fringe benefits' to age and invalid pensioners it is proposed to disregard this item. 
Miscellaneous Benefits Available to Age Pensioners Through State Departments and Agencies 
In many cases. State Governments make available assistance on a discretionary basis according to the circumstances in which the individual finds himself. 
Cash Assistance 
New South Wales: Nil. 
Victoria: Certain age pensioners who were receiving cash assistance from the 
Victorian Social Welfare Department as at 1st October 1969 are paid a supplementary benefit. It is understood, however, that all payments of this nature will be terminated at 30th September 1970. 
Queensland: Supplementary benefit may be payable by the Department of Children's Services to one-parent families receiving age pension, on the basis of $2.50 per week for each dependent child, subject, however, to a ceiling total income (child endowment being excluded) equal to the basic wage adjusted to take account of family size. 
South Australia: A supplementary housing allowance of up to $2.00 per week (to the extent that housing costs exceed $4.00 per week) may be paid by the Department of Social Welfare to age pensioners who do not qualify for Commonwealth supplementary assistance. 
Western Australia: An additional allowance may be payable to age pensioners with children at the rate of $2.00 per week (in a one-child family) or $2.50 (where there is more than one dependent child). The allowance is paid by the Child Welfare Department. 
Tasmania: The Social Welfare Department may gram supplementary benefit to age pensioners with dependent children subject to a means test. The amount of assistance payable is the difference between assessed means and the appropriate required minimum living income determined according to size of family. 
Food relief: Age pensioners are not generally granted food relief by State agencies. 
Medical, Dental and Optical Facilities 
New South Wales: In cases of need assistance may be given in providing spectacles, hearing aids, surgical aids and hospital transport. The Sydney Dental Hospital as well as certain other institutions provides necessary dental attention free of charge. Fares may also be met. 
Victoria: Out-patient and in-patient treatment is given by the Mental Hygiene Department free of charge. Assistance is also available in providing pharmaceutical benefits and medical and optical treatment where corresponding Commonwealth assistance is not available. The Melbourne Dental Hospital provides out-patient treatment and supplies dentures to pensioners free of charge. 
Queensland: Free medical and hospital services are available through the State's free hospital system. The State dental clinics also make available to pensioners free dental treatment and dentures. Surgical aids may be available on a means test basis. 
South Australia: Pensioners can obtain free dental treatment at the Dental Hospital, Adelaide. In addition medical treatment may be provided free of charge in cases of particular hardship. 
Western Australia: The Perth Dental Hospital and associated clinics provide reducedfee dental treatment. 
Tasmania: Pensioners are provided with free dental services, including the supply of dentures, at the dental departments of public hospitals. In addition pensioners residing in country areas may apply to the State Social Welfare Department for a free travel warrant to enable them to attend hospital. Surgical applicances and spectacles may also be made available. 
Utilities: Some age pensioners living in area supplied by the Gas and Fuel Corporation of Victoria may be eligible for concessions. In Tasmania rebates on electricity accounts are made available to certain age pensioners by the Hydro-Electric Commission. Heating allowances may also be provided by the Social Welfare Department. 
Education: Pensioners in Victoria having the care of high school children may apply to the school principal for financial assistance. 
Legal Aid: Pensioners in Victoria and Tasmania may receive advice and, depending on their circumstances, be given legal assistance free of charge. 
Miscellaneous: All States may assist pensioners in the provision of certain necessities such as blankets, clothing, funeral expenses, school books, special diets etc., where need is demonstrated. The above list is incomplete, especially since it omits reference to certain services which pensioners share with other less affluent sections of the community. 
From the pensioner's standpoint, the most important items are undoubtedly the dental and optical services (especially dentures and spectacles) and the ancillary medical services (especially surgical appliances and hospital transport). No firm figures of cost are available, the benefits are unlikely to average less than 20c per head per week, but this figure must be regarded as conjectural at the present stage. 
Help to Pensioners from Non-Government Sources 
Pensioners receive considerable assistance from non-government sources, including entrance to certain cinemas and other entertainments at reduced rates, and discounts for certain purchases. Many voluntary bodies have projects which are of material assistance to pensioners, and many individuals give of their time to help them. Although these benefits are substantial for the average pensioner, it is not proposed to take them into account for present purposes. 

<graphic href="069131197009033_18_7.jpg"></graphic>

Means Test on Age and Invalid Pensions Comparison of 1949 and 1970 Provisions 
In 1949 there were, in effect, two means tests, one on income and the other on property. First, if property exceeded $1,500 no pension was payable. Where property was less than the absolute limit, the maximum rate of pension was reduced by (a) any income in excess of $3 a week; and (b) S2 for every complete $20 in excess of $200 but not exceeding $900 and by $4 for every complete $20 of the remainder (if any) of the person's property. 
In 1961 the merged means test was introduced. Under this means test property is equated with income in order to determine a person's 'means as assessed'. This is made up of income plus $2 for every complete $20 of property in excess of $400. The maximum rate of pension was then reduced by $1 for each $1 of means as assessed in excess of the permissible amount ($364 in 1961 increased in 1967 to $520 unmarried, $442 married). In 1969 the tapered means test was introduced. Under the tapered means test the principles of the merged means test were retained, but the rate of pension is calculated by deducting $1 for each $2 of means as assessed in excess of the permissible amount instead of $1 for $1 as previously. 

<graphic href="069131197009033_19_8.jpg"></graphic>

This information covers, firstly, the real values of the base pension since 1947, calculated at the latest available prices - that is, prices for the June quarter 1970; secondly, additional information about benefits paid to special classes of age and invalid pensioners; thirdly, a list of additional benefits, apart from increases in the base rate, brought in by the LiberalCountry Party governments since 1949; fourthly, an analysis of the fringe benefits currently available to age and invalid pensioners; and, fifthly, a comparison of the 1949 and 1970 means tests. 
As 1 said in the House yesterday, the present proposed increase meets changes in the cost of living since the last Budget but does not increase the real rate of pension to any significant extent. Using the June quarter index, a small increase is indicated, but next month when the September quarter index has been compiled - of course, it is not available now - it will be found that the value at up-dated prices will be almost the same as the corresponding value last October. In real terms nothing has been added to the base rate and nothing has been lost. Naturally there will be some disappointment that the Government has found itself unable to maintain the real progress in this field which has been made in the last 2 Budgets. But this is a Budget for consolidation and for the major adjustment of the health benefits proposal and I have no doubt that before long we shall resume the pensioners progress, whether in increases in the real value of the base rate or in the provision of new fringe benefits or in both directions. 
Meanwhile we have at least maintained the status quo. May I contrast this with what happened in 1949? I know it is a long time ago but it is the last time that Labor was in office and is, therefore, the only real indication of the way in which the Labor Party behaves. In the 1948-49 
Budget the base pension was fixed at 2 2s 6d - $4.25 a week now - while the cost of living index stood at 43.4. By the time that  Mr Chifley's  next Budget came along the cost of living index had increased from 43.4 to 46.1. In spite of this, no increase was made in the pension so that, by December 1949, when the Liberal-Country Party Government took over from Labor, the real value of the base pension had fallen by 7 per cent. Let me put it in terms of today's prices. The 1948 Chifley pension at today's prices was worth $10.89 per week. 
It was the last time Labor was in office. I repeat, 1 am expressing this at today's prices. By the time  Mr Chifley  left office the pension had fallen to $10.08 a week. Perhaps I can put it in terms of increase. If we had done what  Mr Chifley  did to the pensioners, instead of increasing the pension by 50c we would have reduced it by 80c. That is the measure of the difference between us. Contrast Chifley's $10.08 pension with the $15.50 a week proposed in the present Budget. Better still, contrast what Labor says today with what Labor does when it is in office. I know that all this happened a long time ago but it is the latest available evidence because Labor has not been in office since then. So much for the crocodile tears of the Opposition. May I remind honourable members of the Opposition that supplementary assistance of $2 a week, which we pay as an addition to the base rate pension, did not exist at all under the Labor Government. 
As honourable members know, my own feeling is that these hours have to be such as would leave a reasonable time for Government business and, at the same time, meet the convenience of honourable members and be practicable in view of the mechanics of the House and of its staff. In paragraph 8 of its report the Standing Orders Committee left open the question of sitting over meal hours. I am strongly in favour of sitting over a meal hour once, and only once, a day. I am, however, assured on the advice of officers to whom this has been suggested that under present arrangements and with the present staff this would cause mechanical difficulties which they would find it almost impossible to overcome. There are questions of accommodation for Hansard, and other similar matters. I remain a supporter of the proposition that we should meet over one meal hour a day andI believe that it is possible for this House to make arrangements conformable to that. However we have to look at the principle of having our routine of such a nature that it can be worked with our existing facilities. 
I think every honourable member would agree with me on 2 propositions. The first is that the individual member of the staff of this House should be given a fair go. Nobody would want Hansard, the Clerks or any other servant of this House to have to work unreasonable hours. The second proposition which,I hope, would get unanimous agreement, is that this House should be able to arrange its servants in such a way as to meet the needs of its own deliberations, because we are a House of some importance in the life of Australia. We should be able to arrange our staff and their accommodation in such a way as to meet the real and proper needs of this House which should be overriding. 
We have to reconcile these 2 propositions - fairness to the individual members of the staff and meeting the proper requirements of this House. Having talked to the staff I am convinced of 2 things: Firstly, as matters stand at the moment we could not sit over meal hours without doing violence to the convenience of members of the staff, secondly, I am equally convinced that if we make proper forward arrangements it will be possible in the future to sit over meal hours without doing violence to the convenience of the staff. For those reasons I would not press for a formal motion at this stage, butI am certain that it wilt come. 
I am certain that when we look at this in the near future - perhaps later this year or early next year - it will be possible for us to think of the necessary routine arrangements and it will be possible to make a further amendment to allow us to sit over meal hours in a way which will give to this House the utmost effectiveness and which at the same time will allow our staff to have reasonable individual lives of service. It will also be possible to accommodate the staff and to provide the other facilities which are needed.I remain, for the reasons that honourable members well know - and I will not weary the House by traversing them again - entirely convinced of the desirability of sitting over a meal hour once a day, butI am also, I am afraid, persuaded that at the present this is not practicable. But that does not mean that I will not be pressing this in the future. 
As I understand it, investigations are at present under way to see in what manner the staff and the accommodation can be adapted to a change. When these arrangements have been worked out and are seen to be practicable it will be for the House to decide to bring that change into operation at the first moment when it is really practicable to do so. I remain convinced as I said of the desirability of sitting over a meal hour. I am not prepared at the moment to press it formally only for the reasonsI have given. 
Yes. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assem bled. The humble petition of the residents of the State of New South Wales respectfully sheweth: 
The red kangaroo and many other marsupials, through shooting for commercial purposes, have been reduced to  a  numerical level where their survival is in jeopardy. 
None of the Australian States have sufficient wardens to detect and apprehend people breaking the laws in existence in each State, and in such a vast country only uniform laws and a complete cessation of commercialisation can ensure the survival of our national emblem. 
It is an indisputable fact that no natural resource can withstand hunting on such a concentrated scale, unless some provision is made for its future. 
We, your petitioners, therefore humbly pray that: 
That export of all kangaroo products be banned immediately, and the Commonwealth Government make a serious appraisal of its responsibility in the matter to ensure the survival of the kangaroo. And, your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
The Government is very conscious that a rise in prices and inflation will affect all people on fixed incomes - pensioners and others. Pensioners as much as or perhaps more than others have something to gain from action by the Government which is aimed at restraining inflation and price rises. If the honourable member will do me the honour of looking at the table which I placed before the House yesterday he will see that over the years the Government has given a rise in pensions at budget time in anticipation of further price rises because the real value of the base pension has been increased above what it would have been if we had taken account only of past price rises. This year the Government has held at peak level. In all years price rises in the months following the budget have reduced the real value of pension increases. This has been allowed for by the Government over many years by increasing the base rate above what it would have been had we followed movements in the price index; by increasing the pension, in effect, in advance. I can hold out no immediate prospect of a change in Government policy but I can hold out a prospect that as soon as opportunity offers the Government will resume, whether by increases in the base rate or in other ways, an improvement in the real value of the benefits which pensioners receive. This may not be done immediately but certainly it will be done in the future, as this Government has consistently done it in the 21 years it has been in office. 
Although I do not consider this to be a matter of such seriousness as the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  I propose to support the amendment. 
This matter is at present before the Government. It is a matter of very great consequence. I am not able to say at this present moment what the policy decisions will be. I am able to say, however, that policy decisions of quite considerable moment will be made. As the House will know, the Government has been developing a policy in regard to handicapped children, sheltered workshops and the other related aspects of rehabilitation. I can assure the honourable member that we will be looking for the help and guidance not only of the organisations and persons whom he has named but also of other persons throughout the community with a view to implementing what is one of the great objectives announced in the Prime Minister's policy speech. It has been said that the 1970s will be a decade of rehabilitation. An international conference towards this end will be held in Sydney in 1972. I would hope that before that time we would have taken very significant further steps in this vital matter. 
I wish to mention to the House one matter that has come up in our investigations. I refer to the number of mentally handicapped among handicapped people generally. A very recent survey of invalid pensioners in the age group 16 to 21 years showed that no less than 61 per cent suffered from mental retardation and another 14 per cent from associated mental diseases. This shows, despite the widely held belief created, because some disabilities bring themselves more in front of the popular eye than others, that the real problem here is in the mental and not in the physical field. 1 am not saying there is not a problem in the physical field. The Government will bc doing everything it can to help in both fields. But it would seem to me that the main need lies in the mental and not in the physical field. This is something that will have to be taken into very careful consideration when the Government comes to frame, as it will, its constructive programme in this matter. We are not delaying. As well as surveying and getting a comprehensive programme developed we are at this moment, as the House will know, taking practical steps which we know will fit in with any programme which may eventually be evolved. 
Pursuant to section 30 of the Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies Act 1964-1966 I present the annual report of the Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies for the year ended 30th June 1970, together with financial statements and the Auditor-General's report on those statements. 
By leave, could 1 suggest .... 
I move: 
That  the  Bill be now read a second time. 
The sheltered workshop concept was not originated by the Government but owed its origin in Australia to devoted organisations which saw the real need of the disabled for employment and set out to satisfy it. In 1967 the Government began its programme of assistance to the movement, which is now growing so rapidly. This Bill will provide further assistance and stimulus, in a way which 1 shall describe in a moment. Before I do so, however, I would remind the House of an even wider issue. The sheltered workshop is a part - indeed a very vital part - of our whole concept of rehabilitation. In this sense, the present proposal is the thin end of what I believe will be a very substantial wedge. The Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  foreshadowed this in his policy speech before the last elections when he laid it down that rehabilitation would be one of our major objectives in the welfare field. This is in line with the world slogan which we might well adopt for Australia: The Seventies is the Decade of Rehabilitation'. 
The Government is working to a plan, but it does not intend to defer action until all aspects of that plan have been worked out. There are some things which we can do immediately, and will do immediately. This proposal is one of them. At the present moment we have a survey in progress as to the dimensions of disability, especially among the younger members of the community. It is of course crucial to give help to the younger group at the time when training will be most beneficial to them. It was for this reason that earlier this year, and as part of the plan, we brought in the Handicapped Children (Assistance) Bill, which, [ am glad to say, is already proving its practical worth. Thus we inaugurated our plan of helping the handicapped at the bottom of the age group. At the other end, we must help them to undertake employment and train for normal employment those who atc able to sustain it. and to provide continuing sheltered employment for those who are unable to make the grade. In between these two extremes - the handicapped children an;l those whose disability precludes them from normal work - we shall be developing further positive rehabilitation measures which I hope will be carried forward in conjunction with State and voluntary bodies. At the present moment I am considering how best these objectives can be achieved and how our available resources can best be co-ordinated. Meanwhile, there are some definite and constructive things we can do and I believe that the proposals in the present Bill fall into that category. 
This Bill gives effect to 3 specific proposals contained in the Budget Speech, namely a subsidy towards the capital cost of accommodation for disabled persons working in normal industry; payment of a training fee in respect of persons placed in normal employment by a sheltered workshop organisation; and a subsidy towards the salaries of certain sheltered workshop staff. These items have been selected as the forms of assistance which, at this stage of the development of sheltered workshops, will meet their most immediate needs and will help them to attain their objective of improving their services for the increasing number of handicapped people who look to them for help in overcoming the many problems they encounter. It is little more than 3 years since the Commonwealth first began a very successful programme of assistance for sheltered workshops. Under the original Act introduced in 1967 capital subsidy of $2 for $1 is available towards the capital cost of sheltered workshops, workshop equipment, and residential accommodation for workshop employees. Subsidy is also available, for up to 3 years, towards the cost of rent for workshop premises. 
Within the period of the 3 years that this legislation has been in force it would not be an overstatement to say that sheltered workshops have developed as a vital force in tackling the social, vocational and economic problems of the handicapped. The impetus given by the Government's assistance can be gauged by the fact that more than 100 sheltered workshops, employing an estimated 5,000 handicapped people, have been approved for assistance and are now producing goods worth $5m a year. This figure is rising at the rate of approximately Sim each year. The wages paid to their handicapped employees, most of whom are invalid pensioners, are also increasing steadily. Over the past 3 years Government assistance to the extent of almost $5m has been given. To this could be added the money, amounting to more than $2m, contributed by organisations and other groups conducting workshops. To these organisations also goes the credit of organising the workshops, of endeavouring to make them viable economic establishments, while at the same time administering them sympathetically and in the interests of their physically and intellectually handicapped employees. Credit is due too, perhaps most of all, to the handicapped people themselves whose courage and determination has been the greatest single factor contributing to the marked success of the sheltered workshop movement. 
The Bill now before the House represents the second stage of Commonwealth assistance. It is calculated to provide aid in specific areas where financial help is needed and to recognise the community service which workshop organisations are providing at their expense. By amendment of section 9 of the Principal Act, the capital subsidy of $2 for $1 which is at present available for the accommodation of persons working in sheltered workshops, most of whom have been assessed as 85 per cent incapacitated for work, will be extended to include subsidy for hostels for disabled people who are working in normal industry. There are few who will argue with the need for half-way houses for the physically and mentally handicapped. There are many disabled people who are able to hold a job 
In commerce or industry, but who need special facilities or supervision to enable them to cope with the ordinary acts of daily living - accommodation designed for wheelchairs or help in building confidence and adjusting to a way of life that we take for granted. For some people accommodation of this type will be a permanent requirement; for others it will provide a stepping stone to their complete social and vocational rehabilitation. Because these hostels will be required mainly by people who are well on the way to overcoming their disabilities, subsidised accommodation will be available to those whose physical or mental disability is deemed to 'require special residential accommodation'. Under the proposed legislation all existing and future subsidised hostels will be able to offer accommodation to eligible disabled persons regardless of whether they are working in a sheltered workshop or in normal employment. 
The second feature of the Bill is that it provides for a training fee of $500 to be paid to a sheltered workshop organisation where a former employee who is disabled to the extent required for invalid pension purposes, graduates to normal employment and is able to retain such employment for a period of 12 months. Many sheltered workshops spend a considerable amount of time training their disabled employees until they reach a degree of proficiency which enables them to accept outside employment. Sheltered workshops are, therefore, continually losing their most proficient workers with resultant loss of their productive capacity. Because of this there has been an understandable reluctance on the part of many workshops to encourage their best workers to attempt the step to open employment. Nevertheless, and I say this with great gratitude, last year workshops placed in outside employment almost 500 disabled people, a majority of whom were or had been invalid pensioners. 1 think that the House will agree with me that this is a magnificent effort, which deserves reward and merits stimulus. The proposed training fee of $500 is a recognition of this valuable secondary function of sheltered workshops. lt will he paid in respect of disabled people who complete their period of 12 months normal employment on or after the date on which the legislation comes into effect. However, the fee will generally be only payable once in respect of an individual and then only if that person has been undergoing a period of training of at least  6  months in the sheltered workshop. 
The third and final provision contained in the Bill is for payment of $1 for SI subsidy towards the salary costs incurred by sheltered workshop organisations in the employment of persons to provide special supervision, or medical guidance, counselling, social work or other like services for their disabled workers. Sheltered workshops are business enterprises, and as such they must have regard to their overhead costs - the same as any other commercial organisation. But business firms, as a rule, do not have to employ staff on a full-time or part-time basis to provide medical guidance, counselling, or training lo the same extent, or to attend to the personal needs of severely handicapped people. Sheltered workshops have to provide more staff for purposes of supervision and training than is normally expected in industry, and to this extent are financially disadvantaged by comparison. 
The subsidy of SI for SI will assist sheltered workshop organisations to meet these additional expenses and by reducing the amount of money, obtained either from outside sources or from their own business activities, which they are required to use for these purposes, will permit them to apply a greater proportion of their income towards improving their operational efficiency and by this means providing a better service and higher remuneration for their disabled workers. Collectively, the 3 new provisions contained in the Bill will enable sheltered workshops to assume a more important role in catering for those people, who notwithstanding their physical and mental disadvantages, want to work lo the best of their ability; some to augment their invalid pensions, others with the objective of achieving full economic independence by entering or re-entering the normal work force. The measures are designed to provide encouragement and to give the workshops an incentive to do just these things. The provisions ;n the Bill will be interpreted by my Department in a way which will give the workshops the maximum encouragement and help. 
Nor is this all we propose to do. I am initiating discussions with sheltered workshop organisations on a national level to see if there is any way in which -ve can assist them by co-ordinating their efforts to obtain appropriate orders, or to increase their efficiency. My present view is that it would be preferable not to have the machinery for these purposes formally within my Department, but rather that we should encourage and subsidise an association of sheltered workshops to undertake this work themselves and to exchange information among themselves, and that we should stand in a liaison rather than directive capacity. However, I would say that at the present stage my views on these details are not firm. It is expected that sheltered workshops will play an ever increasing role, in collaboration with the Commonwealth Rehabilitation Service, in serving the needs of those who are physically or mentally handicapped. The Bill is designed to provide the assistance that is required at this stage for their continued development. I am confident that it will receive the support of all honourable members. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hayden)  adjourned. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of the residents of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
The Red Kangaroo and many other marsupials, through shooting for commercial purposes have been reduced to a numerical level where their survival is in jeopardy. 
None of the Australian States have sufficient wardens to detect and apprehend people breaking the laws in existence in each State, and in such a vast country only uniform laws and a complete cessation of commercialisation can ensure the survival of our National Emblem. 
It is an indisputable fact that no natural resource can withstand hunting on such a concentrated scale, unless some provision is made for its future. 
We, your Petitioners, therefore humbly pray that: The export of all kangaroo products be banned immediately, and the Commonwealth Government make a serious appraisal of its responsibility in the matter to ensure the survival of the Kangaroo. And, your Petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
1 am guided almost entirely in this matter by the recommendation of the Sports Foundation, which is an Aboriginal foundation on which Aboriginals make the recommendations as to where money should be spent to encourage sport. I . think honourable members would agree that Aboriginal sporting records are good and that one of the best ways to advance Aboriginals in the general estimation of Australians and to encourage them to be part of the normal Australian community is to have them engaging in sport  in  the same way as other Australians. It is for this reason that my office, with the concurrence, of course, of the Parliament by its vote, is directing moneys to this effect. I am glad to tell the honourable member that a recommendation was made to me for the allocation of $1,500, I think it was, for the purpose that he mentions, and that I immediately gave it approval when it came before me in the last couple of days. I know that the honourable member for Herbert is particularly interested in this venture, and I commend him for the interest that he has taken on behalf of the Aboriginal people in bis electorate. 
Pursuant to sec  tion 148 of the Social Services Act 1947-70, I present the 29th annual report of the Director-General of Social Services for the year ended 30th June 1970. I also table statements showing developments in social services between 1949 and 1970 and rates of benefit, together with a comparison of some of the rates in Australia with those prevalent in the United Kingdom and New Zealand. I will endeavour to have copies of these delivered to all honourable members before the weekend. Extra copies will be available from my office if they are required. 
in reply - If the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  will let me have the name of the migrant concerned I will see what I can do for him. 
We have special provisions for those over 100 years of age. Very little time is available and I would like to have replied to some of the detailed matters raised in this debate. However, there are just two important matters which I think I should bring to the attention of the House. The first matter arises from the remarks of the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  who led for the Opposition. He suggested that the Opposition was supporting some kind of superannuation scheme on the Downing pattern, which he had incorporated in Hansard. I want to be fair. He said: 'We might vary a little bit but this is our general pattern'. 
I want the House to have a look at one detail of this scheme. It is contained in paragraph 3. Honourable members will find it in Hansard tomorrow. It says that onequarter of the cost of the scheme will be borne from contributions from current Consolidated Revenue equal to the current proportion of the total earnings now spent on age and widows pensions. This quarter of the cost referred to is something like $650m a year. So the scheme would cost $2, 600m a year. In addition, if honourable members will look at paragraph 4 of the Professor's scheme, it will be seen that he wants to add a little over 40 per cent to this to cover invalidity and other health benefits. In that case the total cost of his scheme works out at something like $3, 700m, and that is a lot of money. I say this in order to point out to the House that honourable members may be inclined to indulge their fantasy a little and to ask for things which would involve taxation on a scale which even they so far have not perhaps contemplated. 
The second thing I want to bring to the attention of the House, which is related to this matter, are the remarks of  Mr Chifley  in regard to standards. There has been a lot of talk in this House to the effect that the rates of pension do not allow for a decent standard of living and, in point of fact, an amendment has been moved along these lines. Let me remind the House of what  Mr Chifley  said about this. He made these remarks in his last Budget Speech on 4th October 1949. Honourable members should bear this in mind: 
Under the present provisions relating to payment of invalid and age pensions, a man and his wife, who are both pensioners, may each receive an income and still retain their right to pensions. Including income from other sources, they may receive 7 5s a week between them. 
That would be equivalent to about $35 a week by present standards.  Mr Chifley  continued his Budget Speech by referring to social standards. He said: 
Nobody can contend that that is not a com fortable amount for the sustenance of old people who are not compelled to go to work and who do not need the dissipations that youth sometimes indulge in to gain experience of life. 
This is the Chifley ceiling standard. The Government rejects it. I again return to  Mr Chifley's  remarks. He said: 
At the other end of the scale there are those who have nothing but their pension, and for them life must at times be hard. 
So it was under the Labor Government.  Mr Chifley  continued: 
Suggestions have been made from time to time that something should be done for them. 
That is, the people at the bottom of the scale - 1 want her clearly to understand that whilst the Government is not unsympathetic towards her proposals it could not finance them by bank credit or out of thin air. 
This is the very last Labor Treasurer and very last Labor Prime Minister saying that this was the ceiling - 7 5s a week - and nothing could be done for those people who were lower down the scale. We do not accept this kind of standard. We want something better. For us the ceiling is not 7 5s but $72 a week. These are the only points 1 want to put before the House, to remind honourable members of how much the standards of living throughout Australia have risen under this Government. 
Question put: 
Thatthe words proposed to be omitted  (Mr  Hayden's amendment) stand part of the question. 
I present the fol lowing petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliamentassembled. The Humble Petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully sheweth: 
The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
The following Stale laws, which are currently under discussion with the State Government concerned, contain provisions which could be, prima facie, regarded as discriminating against Aboriginals: 
The answer to the honourable member's Question is as follows: 
 Mr Speaker,  it does seem to me that there is some substance in what the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  has said although, perhaps, the timing may not be appropriate. This is a most important matter of fact which should be resolved. In order to resolve it, the evidence should be available. Therefore, although this should be discussed and discussed in full, I do not believe that this is the appropriate time to do it. Perhaps tomorrow at some time when the evidence can be brought forward the House will be in a position to discuss the matter which the honourable member for Wills quite properly has said should be discussed and should be resolved in this House on the basis of the evidence. 
 I am not going to comment on the technical matter raised by the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham).  I do not feel competent either to agree or disagree with him but I know there are two sides to the question. I do not think it is quite as simple as he would like us to believe. On the other hand I am not prepared to reject what he said because 1 do not know enough about the subject. 1 simply know that it is a complicated question about which I am not able to express an opinion. 
I want to thank both the honourable member for Capricornia and the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  for bringing the general business of handicapped children before the House. I agree with them on two matters. Firstly I agree with them that as our methods of diagnosis become better, as we become better acquainted with the various kinds of disabilities, we will have a proliferation of the kinds of things which we can treat, such as dyslexia and autism in children. Incidentally, it is in what was until recently part of my electorate, at Belrose, that the main centre for autistic children was established. I have visited that centre. 1 agree with the honourable members on this first point: We know more now and therefore should be able to help better. 
I agree with them also on the second point. The sooner we start assisting handicapped children the better because very often something can be done for a child if that child is treated at an early age and helped when it is young. The capacity to help a child is lost if its treatment does not start until later in life. The most dramatic case of this is the totally deaf child who can be helped to what is normal intelligence if it can be given by specialist training early in life, the power of conceptualisation and symbolisation through some medium other than the hearing that it has lost. If such a child does not receive this training early in life its intelligence, as I think the honourable member for Kingston implied, can be impaired permanently. This is a limiting and dramatic case. But the general principle, even in less dramatic instances, is still true. The younger a child is treated the better because the better is that child able to be helped. 
I am not certain that I agree with the honourable members in point of fact, on the whole I would be inclined to disagree on their views as to the role of both State and voluntary bodies. I would agree with them that a place exists for both kinds of bodies in the scheme of things. There are some things which are for the State or government and some which are for voluntary bodies. On the whole, 1 am inclined to think that we obtain the best results in most cases not all by subsidising and helping voluntary bodies. The honourable member for Kingston can argue as to whether we do this adequately or not. This is a legitimate argument. I would feel that, while this Government has started in helping handicapped children with capital buildings and equipment, this is by no means the end of the road. I would regard this as the start. 
There is a place for the voluntary body. After all, the voluntary body does have the advantage of mobilising resources which otherwise would be wasted. The voluntary body has the advantage of involving people in the community it is important that the community as a whole should be involved and it has the very great and I think deciding advantage that in some ways it can give a more personal attention to children than can State and government bodies. I am not saying that the subsidies that voluntary bodies receive are always adequate, but I do point out that by giving capital subsidies to these bodies as we are starting to do now we do take some of the burden and we do enable the States to have more funds which they can devote to their running subsidies. 
I think it is perhaps not a good thing to have too many governments involved in the same kind of operation. If the capital and the running can be separated out, that does not involve too much confusion; but if the running be partly Commonwealth and partly State this may bring about a degree of confusion which may not be to the advantage either of the organisation concerned or, what is much more important, of the handicapped children.I have indicated a very great measure of agreement with what the 2 honourable members have said. I have indicated some limited measure of disagreement in regard to it. I will not detain the House further. It was my wish to put that position on record. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
House adjourned at 1130 p.m. 
 The sincerity of the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  is notorious not only in this House but also among the factions of his Party and indeed in his own union. I will say nothing more about it. It is well known that the cuttlefish when it is attacked, in order to escape, emits a cloud of ink. This obscures itself from pursuit. 1 would think that the Opposition members who have spoken today might be nominated as honorary cuttlefish. There is nothing wrong with what the Australian News and Information Bureau has done. Tt has acted within its charter. It has acted properly. 
But it is rather extraordinary that the demonstrators, or those who are associated with the demonstrators should resent it. After all, what is a demonstration about7 People are demonstrating so that they can be seen. That is what they are trying to do. One would think that, if they were honest, these demonstrators and those associated with them, could be only too grateful for any publicity that they were given. They should surely have welcomed the presence of (he News and Information Bureau or any other organ of publicity. They were demonstrating in order to get publicity, so they said - or were they? Is it possible that some of the people who were associated with that demonstration were there for other purposes and would have been rather outraged if their identity had been revealed? If one is in a demonstration, one is demonstrating. Unless one is there for some unlawful purpose, one is there to be seen. 
I wish to review, if 1 may, the events of this day, some of which I saw myself. I was on the balcony outside the Government Party Room together with perhaps 10 or 12 members of the Liberal Party looking over and seeing what happened. I saw the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  speaking. I heard him speaking. As I saw him from the balcony, I was looking at him about half face. He was not looking quite towards me, but he was looking generally in that direction. I saw 2 Vietcong flags. They were on the right of the Leader of the Opposition from where I was standing. So. they must have been almost entirely within his field of view. That is what I saw personally myself and what I can testify myself in regard to that day. Others saw the same thing. 
The honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  has told us what happened to him on that day. It is recorded in Hansard. He has told us that he drew the attention of the Leader of the Opposition earlier on that day to the presence of Vietcong flags. The honourable member said: 
On the right of him were 2 young people who, ] presume, were students with a flag of red and pale blue with a gold star in the centre - the flag of the Vietcong. As I crossed the road, the Leader of the Opposition turned about and moved into the House. In the centre of the road, I said to him: 'What is the matter, Gough? Are you embarrassed by being beside Vietcong Hags?' He replied lo me: 'No. Were they there? 1 did not see them.' 
Now. none perhaps are so blind as those who will not see. We can give the Leader of the Opposition the benefit of the doubt on his own statement that he did not see these flags which were adjacent to him. But we cannot give him the benefit of the doubt of not knowing that they were there and of not being on his guard when he spoke to the crowd subsequently. There is no doubt that, if he had looked, he would have seen them. I can testify that myself. 
The .photographs bear it out. The story that the photographs have been doctored in any way obviously is absurd when one looks at them. All that has happened is that the significant parts of the photographs have been enlarged and made more visible. But there is no alteration whatsoever.  It  is cuttlefish tactics to pretend that they have been tampered with in any way. But this is not the main point. The main point is that, as the Opposition struggles like a cow in the mud it gets deeper and deeper into the mire. Apparently there is no way out- 
The Opposition, as 1 have said, in its efforts to extract itself- 
As 1 have said, the Opposition gets deeper and deeper into the mud in its struggles to extricate itself because it has now admitted and indeed asserted that it is disgraceful to be associated with the Vietcong flag and to align oneself with the people who are carrying it. That is what the bother is all about. If honourable members opposite did not admit that it was disgraceful, why are they worrying? Of course they know that this is a disgraceful thing to do and their whole attitude in this House today is an admission and indeed an assertion that this is disgraceful. 
But the trouble for the Opposition is this: For months past, prominent members of the Opposition have been involving themselves continuously just in this. They are convicted now out of their own mouths. By admitting that this is a disgraceful thing to do, they admit that prominent members of their front bench and their organisation outside this House have been involved continuously in disgraceful activities. This is what they have said and admitted. And the country had better realise that this is what they have done. I invite honourable members to look at the photographs of the May Moratorium which were tabled in the House today. Honourable members will see there that the Leader of the Opposition is speaking in close juxtaposition to a Vietcong flag. Honourable members will see this in the photographs of the May Moratorium. Honourable members will see that the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  is in the same position and 1 think that the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  is in the same position. They are not the only ones. They were so close to a Vietcong flag when they were speaking that it is reasonable *o say that they were speaking under it and under its patronage. They have now admitted that what they did then was disgraceful, and so it was. 
This is by no means the only evidence. If we look back in the newspaper files we will find that honourable members on the Opposition side have been continuously associated with this kind of activity but when it is brought to the surface it is disgraceful to say these things about them even though it can be proven as it has been proved by photographs. But the point is that for months past they have been doing just this and worse. The honourable member for Lalor is so sunk in this that he went to the point of inviting the Vietcong to come to Australia in order to participate in the Moratorium. Is this proper? Is this the attitude of a man who can get up in this House and defend the Leader of the Opposition? It is ironical that he should be called upon to defend the Leader of the Opposition. Surely there is some kind of hypocrisy inherent in this. 
The honourable member for Lalor has said in this House that it is a disgraceful charge, but outside this House he himself is involved in this and worse, and continuously. The association between members of the Labor Party and members of the Communist Party in these Moratorium campaigns is notorious and prolonged and they are getting deeper in the mire all the time like the struggling cow. The Labor Party has admitted now for the first time that these operations are indeed disgraceful and are worthy of condemnation. In a sense then the Labor Party has for a long time been living a lie. lt has been a Party- 
The Labor Party has, as I said, been living a lie. 
1 want to come back, if I may, to the Leader of the Opposition. In this House on 24th September, just a few days ago, he said: 
There were no Vietcong flags anywhere in my vicinity or in my sight. There were none last May, . . . 
I do not know whether we should give to the Leader of the Opposition the privilege of blindness on all occasions but the photographs tabled today in this house of the May Moratorium show that he must have been closing both eyes if he did not see the Vietcong flags in his vicinity then. Indeed it may be that there is a disease which is hereditary among leaders of the Labor Party, and that is the disease of piano playing under certain circumstances. 1 can recall the Leader of the Opposition's predecessor in this House denying that he had ever seen a unity ticket. I can see that the honourable gentleman who now leads the Labor Party may have inherited that particular kind of blindness and that particular kind of predilection for playing the piano under certain circumstances. 
I do not want to go on with this recital in detail but 1 do want to draw the attention of the House to a most serious thing that is happening and which is a corollary of it. I do not want to canvass the truthfulness or credibility of the Leader of the Opposition or the sincerity of the honourable member for Hindmarsh. These are things which I think we should put to one side. But there is one thing which is important and that is what is happening inside the Labor Party itself in regard to this movement towards the left or the right. There are people in the Labor Party who are al this present moment out to persuade the House and the people that they are cleaning up the Left infection within the Party. They are changing the people in Victoria. They are getting rid of them. Indeed it is notable that in getting rid of them the price is to adopt their policy. The individuals may go but the policy remains. After all,  Mr Crawford,  who 1 understand used to lead the Labor Party branch in Victoria, did say that he wanted Australian troops in Vietnam to lay down their arms. This is very much what the Leader of the Opposition said just recently. He made the qualification that he did not want them to lay down their arms in the field. But he wanted them to indulge in some sort of concerted mutiny and he wanted them to make it clear, at least to their commanding officers, that they would be very reluctant dragons and should not be sent into the field. There is not a great deal of difference between what the Leader of the Opposition said and what the despised  Mr Crawford  - the man rejected from the Party - said in Victoria. 
The general line of movement towards the Left in policy is taking place concurrently wilh a pretended purge of the old Left personnel. 1 think that this is a most dangerous thing from the point of view of this country because it may be that the Labor Party may succeed in persuading the people of what is false; namely, that it has reformed. It has not. While they purge the persons they retain the policy. Here in this House on this Moratorium agitation, on the admitted disgraceful implications in the Moratorium agitation, in the incitement to mutiny in the Australian Army, the Opposition has taken on the mantle of the Left even though it has got rid of some of the personnel. This may be even more dangerous because in New South Wales, which is the most important State, Labour is now talking, as part of the price for getting rid of the ALP Executive in Victoria, about the institution of what it is pleased to call a balanced Executive in New South Wales. That means that the Left and the allies and tools of the Communists on the Left will be able to take their places inside the Labor machine. It is by no means a coincidence that one of the Senate candidates endorsed for New South Wales by the Australian Labor Party was in his time expelled from the Returned Services League for Communist leanings. There is no reasonable evidence that at any time since he has disavowed those Communist leanings. It is not a coincidence that this individual,  Mr Gietzelt,  was closely associated- 
It is no coincidence that  Mr Gietzelt  was- 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker- 

I would just point to the personal association of  Mr Gietzelt- 

 Dr J. F. CAIRNS (Lalor)-  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I rise on a point of order. I think that the photographs should be allowed to speak for themselves, and indeed there is- 
May 1 remind you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that whereas the photographs speak for themselves, there is corroborative evidence- 
I want to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. The Leader of the Opposition implied that there was something sinister in my knowledge that photographs were taken. There was nothing sinister in it. I knew it from the fact that I saw ihe photographs being taken at the time they were taken. 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (3)  Dr Kalokerinos  has not requested Commonwealth assistance to conduct research into factors contributing to the high infant mortality rale in the Aboriginal population. 

 Dr Kalokerinos has discussed his theory that Vitamin C deficiency is a major cause of ill health and mortality in Aboriginal children with me and has suggested ways in which research might be conducted to test this theory. 
At present, the Commonwealth is carrying out a research programme in co-operation with the States into various aspects of Aboriginal infant health and nutrition. In this programme, the Department of Health is co-operating with my Department.  Dr Kalokerinos'  findings are being considered as one aspect of the research programme which will examine Aboriginal children and endeavour to formulate a programme to combat infant mortality and child morbidity. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
At 31st August 1970 my Department operated 49 Regional Offices throughout the Commonwealth. The location, staffing and function of each office is shown in the following table. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
$24m (p.a.) for eligible persons 80 years and over 
$29m (p.a.) for eligible persons 79 years and over 
$36m (p.a.) for eligible persons 78 years and over 
$43m (p.a.) for eligible persons 77 yean and over 
$52m (p.a.) for eligible persons 76 yean and over 
$62m (p.a.) for eligible persons 75 yean and over 
$74m (p.a.) for eligible persons 74 yean and over 
$88m (p.a.) for eligible persons 73 yean and over 
$103m (p.a) for eligible persons 72 yean and over 
$118m (p.a.) for eligible persons 71 yean and over 
$133m (p.a.) for eligible persons 70 yean and over 
$151m (p.a.) for eligible persons 69 yean and over 
$173m (p.a.) for eligible persons 68 years and over 
$198m (p.a.) for eligible persons 67 yean and over 
$226m (p.a.) for eligible persons 66 yean and over 
$264m (p.a.) for eligible persons 65 years and over 
The estimates shown above are based on the assumption that all persons eligible by residence would claim a pension if the means test were abolished. 
Indeed I can. I am well aware of the honourable gentleman's interest in this institution. I recall with pleasure a visit I made in company with him a short time ago. Under the Act which this Parliament recently passed, capital subsidies on the basis of $2 for $1 can be made to handicapped children's organisations. In making these subsidies naturally we require some assurance that the buildings which are financed will be used for a reasonable time for the purpose for which we give the subsidy. The Karonga school for handicapped children is built upon land belonging to the New South Wales Department of Education. I understand that under the New South Wales Act leases of longer than 10 years cannot be given. In the case of subsidies we normally require a lease of 21 years. But in view of these special circumstances and the fact that there is no reasonable possibility that the New South Wales Department of Education will take the land from the institution at the end of 10 years, it has been decided that the 10 yean lease will be acceptable. Therefore, as soon as we receive official intimation - we have already had unofficial intimationthat the New South Wales Government will grant the 10 years lease, we will make the subsidy immediately available so that work on building an extension to this very excellent school may continue without delay. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The question is one involving Government policy and will be considered when social, service benefits generally are next under review. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
A funeral benefit of up to $40 may be paid in' respect of the funeral of a deceased widow pensioner, if the claimant had paid or was liable to pay for the funeral and was a pensioner or became a pensioner within 6 months of the death of the widow. 
Any question of extending the conditions for payment of funeral benefit is one involving Government policy and will be considered when social service benefits generally are next under review. 
The answer to the hon ourable member's question is as follows: (1)Yes. 
There is no information available as to the average cost of a funeral in 1945. 
Any question of variation in the amount of funeral benefit is one involving Government policy and will be considered when social service benefits generally are next under review. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is understood that at this meeting of State Ministers there  was  agreement  as  to action to be taken by the States for the purpose of formulating  a  joint approach to the Commonwealth on certain matters discussed at the meeting. So far as I am aware, no formal communication has yet been received from the States as a result. 
I ask the House for leave to present a petition from certain residents of the United States of America. 
-I present the following petition: 
 To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled in Canberra, Australia. 
The humble petition of the residents of the  United States of. America respectfully sheweth: 
The red kangaroo and many other marsupials, through shooting for commercial purposes, have been reduced to a numerical level where their survival is in jeopardy. . 
None of the Australian States have sufficient wardens to detect and apprehend people breaking the laws in existence in each State, and in such a vast country only uniform laws and a complete cessation of commercialisation can ensure the survival of our National Emblem (that is, Australia's National Emblem). 
It is an indisputable fact that no natural resource can withstand hunting on such a concentrated scale, unless some provision is made for its future. 
We; your petitioners, therefore humbly pray that: 
 The export of all kangaroo products from 
Australia be banned immediately and the Commonwealth Government of Australia make a serious appraisal of its responsibility in the matter to ensure the survival of the kangaroo. 
And, your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I have not had an opportunity to study in depth" the report in question with which the honourable member is no doubt more familiar than I am. In regard to the last part of his question may I say that I deplore racial discrimination in Australia. I deplore any attempts to exploit the feeling that there might be racial discrimination. 
by leave The Australian Sheltered Workshops Association has produced an manual on sheltered workshops. This was not produced by my Department but in point of fact my Department did give some financial assistance to the Association. I lay on the table a copy of the manual. I will have a copy available for any honourable member who would like to apply to me for it. 
in reply - A number of points have been raised, some of quite major consequence. I would like to thank honourable members on both sides of the House for a constructive approach. I would not be able to agree with everything that has been said but on the other hand I would certainly not be able to disagree with everything that has been said. I will consider some of the points raised. Firstly, let me say that the Government is proceeding in accordance with a plan in this matter but it is not possible to say that everything must be set out in advance. There are 2 reasons for this. The first is that at the present moment we do not have all the information we would like to have. The second reason is more important: Until you advance you cannot quite see where the next step is. The old Latin tag 'solvitur ambulando' - 'you can see your way clearest if you go forward* - is. I think, of relevance to this situation. We want to try things. We cannot always be certain of what is the best way to go but unless we make a forward step we will never find out. 1 would regret it if a State reduced its benefits when the Commonwealth increased its benefits, but that is something over which no Commonwealth government would have any control. 1 agree with the contention that we are not rehabilitating enough people. I am worried at the intake into invalid pensions, which is not always as well controlled as it might be. In particular I am worried that many people entering upon invalid pensions for the first time are not brought face to face with the opportunities for rehabilitation and do not get all the benefits which could come from it. I think this is one of the great inherent weaknesses in a scheme of invalid pensions which goes back now for many decades. This is one of the matters to which I am giving special attention. It seems to me that people who come into invalid pensions for the first time, and particularly those in the younger age groups, should be much more carefully scrutinised so that they can have new opportunities to overcome their disabilities. I do not think we are doing as much for them as we should. There are too many people dead-ended on invalid pensions. 
This matter relates very largely to the means test which was raised by the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)).  If we do not have a means test, the qualifications for entry into the invalid pension must be scrutinised much more carefully than they are. If one looks at the ratio of invalid pensioners to population in the various States one finds that there are anomalies which can be explained only on the assumption that the medical criteria are applied differently in different States. If one looks at those figures one sees that the anomalies are massive. Perhaps the giving of a means test free pension to the. blind has created anomalies. I would not want to withdraw in any way from the blind their means test free pension. I am much more concerned with an aspect which the honourable member perhaps has overlooked - it is a real aspect - and that is the effect of the moderate earnings on supplementary assistance. I think averages of $5.25 earnings were quoted by the honourable member earlier tonight. This indicates that the people who would be affected by the normal means test on pensions would be comparatively few, but the people affected by the means test on supplementary assistance in this area are considerable. I think it is to this aspect rather than to the one put by the honourable member that I would be first turning my mind because this has a real impact on the situation and it causes me a considerable amount of disquiet. 
The point was raised that our rehabilitation service should be more hospital oriented. I cannot agree with that. It is perfectly true that for some cases hospital orientation is desirable and essential. For every large hospital complex there should be a rehabilitation annex. This is something which I feel does not reach to the greater part of our problem. It is essential for part of the problem but it seems to me that the questions of motivation and employment, of fitting people into the kind of activity which they themselves can profitably conduct, are far more important in terms of what can be achieved. ] believe that the sheltered workshop could not only be one of the great instruments that we have for getting people employed temporarily or perhaps even permanently but also an instrument to pass them into the stream of normal employment. 
I myself would look for far greater liaison between the Rehabilitation Service and the Commonwealth Employment Service within the Department of Labour and National Service than I would between the Rehabilitation Service and the hospital services. 1 agree that both should be there, but when we come to look at their proportionate importance I am inclined to think that the weight goes the way I suggest. I say this particularly because I remind the honourable member that when we looked at the intake of our invalid pensions at the bottom of the age scale we found that 61 per cent were mentally retarded. The more dramatic case is the quadraplegic or the paraplegic or the person who has lost a limb in a motor accident. I know that these are the most dramatic cases. They are important cases but they are not in number the bulk of the cases. Whereas we want to help both types we have to look at this proportionately and see where the needs are. This is part of the way in which I think we are working towards a co-ordinated programme. Although we are taking it a step at a time it does not follow that we do not have a fairly clear idea of where we are going. Of course, this is subject to the inevitable qualification that I have made that until the first step is taken we cannot be quite certain as to what the next step should be. But do not let us dither and do nothing because we do not have a complete plan. Let us see the general direction in which we are going and take steps towards it. 
I agree with the contention of the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  that there are imbalances between the various States. The sheltered workshop has been developed much more in New South Wales than in other States. On the other hand, aged persons homes are developed much more in South Australia than they are in New South Wales. I would remind the House that our programme here is in a sense open-ended. We have never rejected a worthwhile application on the grounds that we do not have funds. If an application for sheltered workshop assistance is made we will find the funds for that assistance to be given, irrespective of where the application comes from. Let us have more facilities in South Australia or Victoria or Queensland, but do not let us say that we want less in New South Wales. 
No, but it might be implied from what the honourable member said. There is an imbalance because there is not the same aptitude to take this up in other States. Let us commend New South Wales here and try to get the other States to come in. Let us correct the balance upwards and not downwards. As I said, the Government's programme is open-ended. Let me come to one or two of the things that were said about detail. I will deal firstly with sheltered hostel equipment. This is subsidisable if it is a fixture but the hostel is not entitled to a subsidy if the equipment is not a fixture. In regard to the subsidy for salaries clause 16d. states that the subsidy is payable as follows: 
Where- 
a person is employed by an eligible organisation wholly or partly to provide services of a supervisory, medical, counselling or other kind in connection with the employment of disabled persons iti sheltered employment provided by the organisation; 
The hostel is subsidised because it is necessary for living purposes and if the living is connected with the person's employment then the specialised services in the hostel would be subsidisable for those in sheltered workshops. 
But not for those outside. I would think that most of them will be in sheltered workshops but we will have a look at this as and when it comes up. The normal running staff of a hostel would not be subsidisable 
Some such administrative arrangement will be made. The details have not been worked out but 1 think that 1 have spelt out the general principle which will be applied. We are not - 1 think that the honourable member for Oxley asked me to deny this unci I do deny it - trying to use sheltered workshops on the cheap. We regard them as very efficient instruments and we are looking at them in a way that will ensure that we can get the maximum amount of benefit for handicapped people. In that sense they are being used as he suggested but we are not trying to do things in a pinch-penny way which would cut down the benefits. In point, of fact I believe that the voluntary organisation gives a benefit in a way which the Government organisation as such cannot do as efficiently. There would be very few people - probably no more than 1 case in a year in the Commonwealth - who would be kept in sheltered workshops unnecessarily to meet the 6 months qualification. I do not think that this is a matter of very great consequence. 
There is some substance in the point made about competitive quotations and things of that character. The Government has already taken steps to do something about this. I do not know whether I have mentioned this before in the House so I will mention it now. The Government is proposing to subsidise a couple of industrial consultants who will be looking for contracts for sheltered workshops and who will be trying to find appropriate jobs, appropriate prices and helping in the management of them. I do not think that these people will be Government employees. I am hoping that they will be subsidised by the Government and attached perhaps to the Australian Council for the Rehabilitation of the Disabled or perhaps the Australian Sheltered Workshops Association. I think that the honourable member is quite right when he says that there is proper scope for doing this kind of thing. 
Perhaps I have taken up too much time on this matter but I believe it is one of immense interest to honourable members. I thank honourable members on both sides for their constructive approaches and I assure the House that the Government is looking for ways and means of developing even more satisfactorily the system that we now have. Our present system is only 3 years old as far as the Government is concerned but it is older than that as far as voluntary organisations are concerned. We want to extend it fairly rapidly. I hope that with the assistance of honourable members we will do so. Earlier tonight I referred to the availability of a manual on sheltered workshops. I think that if they will look at this, perhaps in their own electorates they will find an organisation which could be helped and which would benefit by their assistance. By so doing they would be helping handicapped people in thenown electorates and, indeed, throughout Australia. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
Progress reported. 
Thursday, 15 October 1970 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) A request was received through a Bank in Port Augusta on 5th June 1970 for a Capital Fund loan to purchase and stock Mount Arden Station. It was intended that a small Aboriginal co-operative be formed to own and operate the property. 
From information provided by the applicant, the Bankers and the selling agents an assessment of the proposal was carried out. 
The assessment was based on known income/expenditure figures for sheep raising in similar conditions to those found at Mount Arden and the proposal was found to lack viability and long term prospects of success. In this case it is doubtful whether surplus income would have been sufficient to provide loan repayments, without considering any benefits for the members of the proposed co-operative. 
Since the formation of the Capital Fund my Office has carried out a great number of investigations un rural proposals; it has been found that wilh the larger type ventures it is difficult to demonstrate that sufficient income can bc generated to service 100 per cent plus borrowings. 
My Office is awaiting the views of the South Australian Department of Aboriginal Affairs as to whether Mount Arden would have value as a training school for Aborigines in pastoral requirements. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
Honourable members will observe that the form of this Bill follows very closely the form of its predecessors for expenditure through the States on Aboriginal advancement. They will, however, note that the amount of the grants is now substantially increased, and that the housing component of the grant has been separately expressed. The practice of making these grants to the States started in 1968-69, the first year in which I become Minister-in-Charge of Aboriginal Affairs, and it has been continued at an increasing amount in each succeeding year. The total for 1968-69 was $4m; for 1969-70 it was $5,410,000, and the proposal for this year 1970-71 is $7m. I have prepared a table showing the annual distribution between the States. With the concurrence of honourable members I incorporate the table in Hansard. 

<graphic href="070131197010151_23_0.jpg"></graphic>

In regard to Aboriginal advancement the Commonwealth Government does not have exclusive powers or responsibilities but, as in other matters provided under section 51 of the Constitution, it shares these with the States, subject, of course, to the proviso that in case of conflict of Federal and State laws, it is the Federal law which prevails. For many years now each State has had its own machinery for assistance to its own Aboriginals, and it seemed reasonable when the Commonwealth came into the field that we should utilise this machinery and assist its operation rather than ourselves endeavour to set up suddenly a whole new apparatus on our own account. 
Last year, as I have said, Commonwealth grants to the States under this head totalled some $5,410,000. I thought it might be of interest to honourable members to have details of how this sum was spent and I have therefore had prepared a detailed account and with the concurrence of honourable members I incorporate the table in Hansard after the text of my speech. For this year, as I have said, the allocation is to be increased by almost 50 per cent, that is, from$5,410,000 to $7m. Once again with the concurrence of hon ourable members I incorporate in Hansard details of this allocation without reading them. 

<graphic href="070131197010151_24_0.jpg"></graphic>

The Government has ear-marked $4,800,000 of the proposed expenditure for this year for housing. Because we believe that this is of special importance to Aboriginal people couldImakesome special reference to this housing programme? Firstly, the housing programme for Aboriginals must be different in different circumstances. Many Aboriginals are already prepared to go into conventional type houses like other Australians, and we would hope that as soon as practicable all Aboriginals would be so prepared. But in saying this we must have some sense of reality and acknowledge that as at the present moment many of our Aboriginal people, particularly in the northern and central parts of Australia, would not want this kind of accommodation. Second, no housing programme can stand by itself. To be successful it requires paralleled employment and training programmes. Third, it must frankly be recognised that a very high proportion of Aboriginals do not yet have the employment capacity or motivation which would enable them to earn enough income to pay normal rents or to make normal capital repayments. To a very large extent, therefore, investment in Aboriginal housing will fail to give any adequate return in terms of money; the profit to be gained from it must be regarded as a social profit rather than a financial one. 
It would, I think, be fundamentally wrong to endeavour to force all Aboriginals into conventional-type- houses. Those who live in cities or towns in the south will, of course, tend to prefer these conventionaltypehouses and their preferences should be met. Other Aboriginals may, however, make quite a different choice. In north and central Australia 3 special problems arise: 
where a death has occurred in a house, and even sometimes when the owner of the house has died even sometimes when the owner of the house has died away from it, it is often the Aboriginal practice to desert the house for a long period or perhaps even permanently. This clearly limits the scope for providing conventnaional houses in these circumstances; 
most Aboriginal people in these areas prefer to live and sleep in the open air, even when a house is available to them except, of course, when the weather is wet; and 
housing both for Aboriginals and other Australians needs to be properly adapted to climatic conditions which differ considerably in different parts of Australia. 
There is one other matter whose significance is often overlooked. In areas where there are large concentrations of Aboriginals it is of vital importance to involve them to the maximum extent in building for themselves. In the cities, of course, where there are conditions with which most Australians are familiar, Aboriginal housing will tend to be built in the normal way and under normal contract, but in the north and central areas of which I have spoken very different conditions should apply. In these areas there is an endemic shortage of worthwhile employment for Aboriginals, and every effort must be made to involve them in provision of their own housing needs. This will not merely make it possible to satisfy those needs more quickly, but it will also provide them for at least a generation with gainful employment and, at the same time, will have the immense psychological advantage of re-assuring them that they can improve their own conditions of life by their own efforts. 
When i became Minister in Charge of Aboriginal Affairs one of the first things J did was to emphasise the desirability of using Aboriginals in their own building programmes, and some progress has been made towards this objective both in the Northern Territory and elsewhere. In the Northern Territory, for example, a mobile works force based on the employment of Aboriginals has been established and is in operation, and, in the various missions, building programmes using Aboriginal labour have been approved on an increasing scale. Nevertheless, I am somewhat disappointed at the pace of our advance in our efforts to involve Aboriginals in providing their own housing, and I am asking my officers to continue to confer with the officers of the Department of the Interior, to see whether any improved plans towards this objective can be devised. I realise, of course, that all aboriginals do not have all the necessary skills, and am well aware that complete success cannot be expected overnight. I am, nevertheless, disappointed at the amount of work which is still being done on Aboriginal housing and associated work on settlements and missions and, indeed, elsewhere by labour which is being brought up from the south, while Aboriginals too often are allowed to sit around at a loose end. It does seem to me that the Queensland authorities, for example, sometimes achieve better results than we do in the Northern Territory in this particular field. 
Honourable members can be assured, however, that both the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Nixon)  and myself are fully alive to the over-riding importance of involving Northern Territory Aboriginals in their own building programmes, and  we  will continue to work towards this end. Perhaps more can be achieved by studies of house design and by finding ways of adapting our designs to local skills and the available local materials. 
Sitting  suspended from 12.45 to 2.13  p.m. 
 Mr Speaker,  you will recall that just before the suspension of the sitting for lunch 1 was speaking on Aboriginal housing and drawing particular attention to the need to involve Aboriginals to the maximum possible extent in providing for their own housing needs. T was suggesting also that more might be done perhaps by the careful choice of design and materials and fitting the one against the other so that Aboriginals could use their skills to the maximum extent. I pointed out that to some extent I had been disappointed hitherto in the progress made along these lines. 
Before 1 leave this subject of bousing, may I refer to another matter which has been a source of some disappointment to me? Some time ago, I announced in this House the formation of an Aboriginal Aged Persons Homes Trust to which I hoped those people throughout Australia who profess goodwill towards Aboriginals would make donations. Not only would these donations be deductible for income tax purposes but, in addition, the Government would contribute $2 for every $1 subscribed. Three very distinguished gentlemen, namely, Archbishop  Sir Philip  Strong, the former Primate of Australia;  His  Eminence Cardinal Gilroy; and  Mr B.  B. Callaghan, C.B.E., the Managing Director of the Commonwealth Banking Corporation - agreed to act as trustees, and a board of advice consisting entirely of Aboriginals was constituted in order to determine the expenditure of the money for the housing of aged Aboriginals. I am bound to confess that so far the response of the public to this appeal has been quite minimal. I repeat that the donations should be sent to the Aboriginal Aged Persons Trust Account, Commonwealth Savings Bank, Civic Square, Canberra, Australian Capital Territory. 
One would have thought that among the many who profess a desire to do something for Aboriginals, more might have been found to co-operate with the Government to provide homes for the aged among them, especially when the effective management of the scheme was in Aboriginal hands. I hope that it will not be long before this lack of support will be a thing of the past. I am anxious for quick subscriptions totalling not less than $250,000, and I repeat that such subscriptions qualify as deductions for income tax purposes. The 
Government will then add a further $500,000, and we will be able to make a worthwhile impact towards our very worthwhile objective. 
If I could leave the question of Aboriginal housing, I could say that apart from housing the main expenditure through the States are in education, health and employment. In the health field, while we have made some contribution to the provision of more bricks and mortar in the States, my office and the Commonwealth Department of Health have been primarily interested in helping the States to improve health services in the areas where Aboriginals are located, and to this end we are financing for a limited period the salaries and costs of community health nurses, public health officers and others in Aboriginal areas. The Department of Health and the Council for Aboriginal Affairs last December organised a workshop of Commonwealth and State health officers and persons engaged in Aboriginal health research in an attempt to pool knowledge about Aboriginal infant health and nutrition and much previously unpublished and uncorrelated information was brought together in this workshop. It is encouraging to be able to report that already some States are seeking financial support within our grants for health projects based on the recommendations of this workshop. 
So far as education is concerned, in addition to the amount of $912,000 spent through the States, major amounts are being spent by the Commonwealth directly. I might mention that, in addition to the amounts spent on Aboriginal education through the States, direct Commonwealth expenditure in this field will this year reach $2.3m. Honourable members will recall that in December 1968 the then Minister for Education and Science and I inaugurated a scheme of study grants for post-secondary and tertiary studies for Aboriginals. The scheme is now into its second year of operation and the results to date are encouraging. During the 1969 academic year,114 Aboriginal scholars were assisted under the scheme, of whom 14 were at the tertiary level. Of these, 33 completed their courses in1969 and 39 made sufficient progress to proceed to later years or stages of their courses in 1970. During 1970, 240 students are being assisted. I have no doubt that the numbers assisted under the scheme will continue to rise year by year. 
The introduction of the complementary secondary grants scheme by the Minister for Education and Science and myself in January this year has had the most encouraging results. Under this scheme, the Commonwealth assumes financial responsibility for all Aboriginal secondary students from the beginning of the year in which they turn 15 upon certification by their headmasters that they would benefit from further study. So far in 1970 2,300 Aboriginal students have been granted these secondary grants. This is far more than we had expected, and we have clear evidence that numbers of the scholars have stayed on at secondary schools, because of the introduction of the scheme, rather than ending their studies at the statutory school leaving age as they would otherwise have done. 
Progress has been made during the year under the employment training scheme inaugurated in 1969 by my colleague, the then Minister for Labour and National Service. So far about 500 Aboriginals have been assisted under the scheme, and although this is a small beginning I would expect that increasingly the scheme will help Aboriginals, particularly those emerging from the education system, to become permanently employed. Modifications in the rates payable under the scheme are at present being examined, and I hope that their inauguration will increase the impact of the scheme. I again emphasise that the major aim of all of our efforts in so many varied fields is to assist Aboriginal Australians to qualify for meaningful employment or for self-employment at the highest level which their individual potential makes possible. 
During the year the Commonwealth has directly interested itself in numerous other fields, with the aims of assisting Aboriginal organisations to provide needed services for Aboriginal citizens and encouraging Aboriginals to retain features of their own culture where they so choose. Thus, during 1969-70 I made grants totalling $203,000 to Aboriginal organisations and other bodies to enable them to make their welfare and other activities more effective. I made further grants totalling $296,000 to other voluntary organisations for the construction of urban hostels for Aboriginal students and young workers, this being in addition to the hostels financed in some States through our grants. As I announced on 21st October 1969, my officers assisted the establishment of the National Aboriginal Sports Foundation composed entirely of eminent Aboriginal sportsmen; and, in making grants of $35,000 to Aboriginal sporting bodies during the year, I was entirely guided by the advice of this Foundation after its formation. I would like to express my thanks to the Aboriginals who assisted in this work. We have similarly tried to encourage Aboriginal arts, crafts, and cultural activities, and during the year I authorised grants of $53,000 for these purposes. These grants are helping to stimulate Aboriginal interest, not only in their traditional arts, but also in using their skills in new media. Amongst the more important projects financed under this head have been an Aboriginal Publications Foundation and, in association with the Commonwealth Council for the Arts, the Aboriginal Theatre Foundation. 
That is the capital fund, is it? 
That is proceeding. I think I laid details of it on the table of the House recently. 
Yes, indeed. I have had the report in front of me. I am not quite certain whether it has been laid on the table of the House yet, but if it has not it will be shortly. The House will recall that the Prime Minister has promised that all legislation discriminating against Aboriginals, whether on a State or Federal basis, would be eliminated in the lifetime of this Parliament. This promise will, of course, be kept but I know that the House will share my desire that in keeping it we should to the greatest possible extent co-operate with the States rather than use the over-riding powers of Commonwealth legislation. Discussions are at present proceeding, and I feel confident that, within the time limit stated by the Prime Minister in his policy speech, I shall be able to make a satisfactory report to the House. 
Finally, I would wish to record my appreciation of the spirit of co-operation shown by the States - and, indeed, by mission and other authorities in the States and in the Northern Territory. In particular, I would wish to record the fact that, honouring the undertakings which they gave me in 1968, the States are maintaining their levels of expenditure on Aboriginal advancement in general and housing in particular, from their own funds. 
If the honourable member will give me- 
In concluding this debate, may I thank both honourable members who have taken part in the Committee stage and raised these points which I would regard as being raised constructively. It is quite true that some kind of subjective test has to be applied. The reason for this is that we are entering into rather unchartered waters. If we are to be generous in this respect, it is not possible to lay down, at the present moment at any rate, strict limits because strict limits thus laid down inevitably would react against the interests sometimes of very worthy organisations in ways which at the present moment cannot be foreseen. When this provision has been in operation for some years, it may be possible to consider some kind of closer definition. But I think that the Committee will realise that to some extent we are pioneering. We want to see how this develops and to develop it in the most effective way possible. Therefore, some kind of flexibility is desirable. 
In saying this, may I add 2 things: First, I think that this is to the advantage of the organisation itself. My Department does take a realistic point of view. In general it will be found that complaints against my Department are remarkably few. My officers have been instructed to approach every one of these problems in the most constructive and helpful manner, and I believe that they are doing so. The second point that I would make is that, although no legal court of appeal is provided, in point of fact a most practical court of appeal is available. It resides in this Committee. Any honourable member may - and I am glad to say that honourable members on both sides of the Committee have - approached me on numerous occasions in regard to any particular problem about which they feel the decision of the Department has been wrong. Honourable members, from whichever side of the Committee they come, can be assured that any problem that they bring after consideration to my attention will be looked at in the most sympathetic way by me. It does not follow that I will go with the honourable member concerned every time and all the way. But I will look at anything that an honourable member brings forward - I am sure that any other Minister for Social Services would do so - in the most constructive and sympathetic way. 
If an honourable member is dissatisfied finally, another court of appeal exists. It is in this Parliament. It is on the motion for the adjournment or, indeed, in debate or by question. Although it does not happen often that an honourable member feels so grieved about a particular instance that he feels it should be ventilated on the floor of this Parliament, it is the ultimate right of every member - and I know that this right will not be abused - to bring a case to this Parliament. This in a way is a more effective sanction that any court of appeal in the legal sense could be. 
The honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds)  spoke also of the question of who was approved and who was not approved in a sheltered workshop. I do remind him of something that I said last night. The Government did not start in this field. This field was started by people outside the Government The initiative came from them. But the Government, having seen how good some of these things were, was able to take advantage of the work that voluntary and charitable organisations had done outside our Commonwealth system and to come in, as we are coming now, in order to assist them. We are pioneering in the manner of assistance but we are not pioneering with the system. The system of sheltered workshops was devised by people, perhaps to some extent outside Australia, but certainly not devised originally in my own Department. It is a system which we want to take up to assist but we do not want to take over. ! 
Some of these organisations were in existence before our capital subsidy came into operation. Our capital subsidy is, I think, only some 3 years old at the present moment. These organisations would not have been eligible for capital assistance because they were in existence before any plan of capital assistance was obtainable. We have asked in general that they subscribe to the principle of a $4 per week minimum. We do not ask that they should all reach this $4 per week - which, by the way, is an average - immediately in every case. We do give some latitude. We have perhaps - I would not like to say overgenerously - accepted in general estimates -by organisations of their own future capacity. This is one of the flexibilities in the introduction of that scheme. I think honourable members will find that although some of these organisations may have been down in the $2 to $3 per week average in the past, they are coming up now. Where they are not up, my officers do endeavour to get alongside them and to help them to come up. 
There is 1 thing that has to be borne in mind. That is this: There are some people in the community who are so handicapped physically or mentally that, whatever we do for them, they cannot themselves come up to this average. It may be that the sheltered workshop is more of an activity centre than a sheltered workshop. If it has in its employees a very large number of these very severely handicapped people, with the best will in the world and whatever we do it may  not be  possible to bring it up. 
They are very worthwhile. This perhaps is a field which will repay further examination. But remember that in thinking of these people we must consider the interests of people in sheltered workshops who are capable of some kind of improvement. It is probably not to their advantage to mix them in too much with people whose handicap is so severe that they can never hope to do very much for themselves. It  is  a practical matter. I know that we talk about these multi diagnostic workshops. We do wish to have some kind of spread of ability. But there is something to be said from a medical and psychological point of view for keeping some distinction between those people whose handicap is slight, minimal or not so severe, on the one hand, and the people whose handicap is unfortunately so severe that nothing effective can be done for them - and there are some such people. it may well be that the Commonwealth should be taking more note of what I would call activity centres rather than sheltered workshops. This is one of the things that is under study at the moment. I am not going to give any commitment to the House. Indeed, it would be quite wrong and improper for me to give any commitment as to the result of that study. Whether this should be a responsibility of the States in this field I leave as an open question at the present moment. But I agree with the honourable member that these activity centres, which are not really sheltered workshops, do have a great value and they do have a proper place in any full scheme of social services. 
It is sometimes forgotten that the Commonwealth's power over social services comes under section 51 of the Constitution. As such, it is a concurrent and not an exclusive power. The States have responsibilities in the social services field for their own citizens to some extent. They share that field with the Commonwealth. So, as I say, it is a concurrent power. 
This may well be, and I am not trying to rubbish this argument. I am trying to look at it as an argument which is put forward sensibly and which may be sustainable. I am saying that it is sometimes forgotten that in this social services field there are State powers and responsibilities as well as Commonwealth powers and responsibilities. We would not want to have a position where, in the running of these things, there was an inordinate kind of confusion between the States and the Commonwealth. It may be better to have a fairly clear cut-off line of distinction between them. This does not matter when the Commonwealth is coming in with capital and the State is doing the running, because then there is no confusion. 1 am not saying it is so, but I am saying it should be considered whether the activity centre, as distinct from the sheltered workshop, should not be a State responsibility rather than the Commonwealth's responsibility, but I agree that it should be somebody's responsibility. 
I have tried to deal with the matters raised by the honourable member for Barton. The honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  raised 4 main matters with me. I will try to answer them. First of all he spoke about apprentices, I am glad to be able to inform him that he need have no fears on this, because the legislation does all the things that I think he was wanting it to do. There is no bar against an apprenticeship, either in an organisation or outside the organisation. If normal rates are being paid and if the person concerned is carrying out his normal duties as an apprentice then the proper performance of those duties over 12 months will qualify for the $500 bonus. Of course, I am familiar with the excellent work being done by Bedford Industries. I have been there on a number of occasions. Indeed, I am familiar with one or two cases mentioned by the honourable member. I agree with him about the excellence of the work done. I am glad to inform him that under the legislation as it stands he need have no apprehension on the matter of apprentices that he raised. 
The honourable member raised the matter of medical inspections and the 85 per cent disability. The general practice is that where a person is not an invalid pensioner evidence as to his being 85 per cent disabled for the purposes of this Act will be accepted from an organisation's doctor. It is only in cases where there is doubt as to the degree of incapacity that it is necessary for the person to be examined by the departmental doctor. Any such examination would be carried out by the rehabilitation doctor. I am bound to tell the honourable member that this general departmental practice has hitherto not obtained in South Australia. In South Australia there has been some departure from the practice which has obtained in other parts of the Commonwealth. I am going to suggest that South Australia be brought into line in this regard with other parts of the Commonwealth. I think that answers the second question that he raised. 
The third question that the honourable member raised concerned the $1 for $1 subsidy. I think he was suggesting that it should be brought up to a $2 for $1 subsidy. The honourable member will remember that the general principle that has been established in regard to the home care programme which was before this House some time ago is that in capital matters the Government pays a $2 for $1 subsidy, but in maintenance and running matters which require a much more continuous supervision the Government is inclined to confine its aid to $1 for $1. This is, as I said, a general principle. I have spoken about the sheltered workshops and I am inclined to think that the subvention we are offering now - it will be interpreted again in a flexible and general way - will be sufficient to carry them out of their present difficulties in this regard. It may be that later on - I think the honourable member for Barton suggested this - we may be able to put in some kind of overall subsidy rather than on a $1 for $1 basis. I am not quite convinced that this will ever happen, but it may happen in the future. I would not rule out that possibility. 
I would, however, say that at the present moment when we do not quite know where we are going in all its detail - we know the direction we are moving in and we know it is the right direction but we do not quite know all the twists and turns of the path and we cannot find out except by going along the path - I think it would be out of place to adopt the suggestion, certainly at the moment. I give no commitment that it will be adopted in the future. Let us see how the thing works out. I am afraid that I could not go beyond the $1 for$1 subsidy in regard to maintenance and running, but the Government will continue to provide the $2 for $1 subsidy on the capital advance. This seems to me to be a general principle. 
Finally, the honourable member raised the question of amenities and recreation areas. The general rule is that reasonable amenities - things like tea rooms, meeting rooms and locker rooms - qualify for the $2 for $1 subsidy. Hitherto we have not given this subsidy for such things as sporting ovals and swimming pools. I suppose this is something which can be considered in the future. I do not rule it out, but at the present moment I give no commitment in regard to it. But I can give a commitment that in deciding what amenity is reasonable my officers will be looking at the matter in a generous way and will be interpreting the Act in a flexible manner. I do not think it will extend to sporting facilities which are sporting facilities only but it will extend to what we would call a reasonable amenity, such as play areas, recreation rooms and things of this character. Let us see how it works out. 
Again may I thank the House for the constructive way in which the second reading debate was conducted and for the way in which honourable members have approached the details in the Committee stages this afternoon. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
Pursuant to section 13 of the Aboriginal Enterprises (Assistance) Act 1968  I  present the Second Annual Report by the Office of Aboriginal Affairs on the administration and operation of the Act for the year ended 30th June 1970. 
Let me set the mind of the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Allan Fraser)  at rest straight away. I think myself, having looked at it, that the form of the notice is not as it should be and I have given directions that the form be reviewed. I agree with him that the letter might be more personal and that it might relate to the particular circumstances of the pensioner concerned. We will be having a look at this matter. I thank the honourable member for having brought this to my attention. 
I am proud of my Department and I think that it is on the whole a miracu lously good Department but there always will be rough edges following the introduction of such reforms as the tapered means test. Honourable members on both sides of the House will know that if they bring to my attention aspects that they think can be improved they can be certain that at least they will be looked at and looked at sympathetically. I cannot give in every case a blanket assurance that I will do what is asked of me, although in this case I can say that I have given instructions for some revision of the form. That is as far as I can go at the present moment. 
The decisions, I think, are not in question. It is the form of the letter which is in question. I think that the honourable member has a point in this respect and I think that it can be met. 
The other point that the honourable member made with regard to the right of appeal to some tribunal is one with which I do not agree. As I explained to the House some two or three sitting days ago, I think, there is available something which is more effective than an appeal to a tribunal. A department necessarily, if it is to be sympathetic and flexible, must have a certain degree of discretion; otherwise the letter of the law, against which the honourable member quite rightly was protesting a few moments ago, becomes inflexible. Every person who feels himself aggrieved in a matter of this kind has the right to go to his member of Parliament if he can get no satisfaction, as he deems it, from the Department of Social Services. He can go to his member and, if a representation is made to me in respect of the matter raised, it will be considered carefully. I do not say that it will be given or refused in every case. It will be considered carefully. This right is far more effective really for the pensioner's interest than any letter of the law possibly could be or any appeal to a tribunal which would need to be in accordance with the letter of the law would be. 
If a member believes that my decision is an unjust one - it does not happen very often, but it can happen - my door is open to him so that he may come to me to get an explanation. If he is dissatisfied with my explanation, he has always the final right to speak on the motion for the adjournment of the House, during the Grievance Day debate or at some other time when he may like to bring the matter up in the House. This is something which should not be done lightly or inadvisedly. But the remedy is there. These remedies, when we put them together, are very much more effective in the pensioner's interest than any appeal tribunal could be. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Aged Persons Homes 
Grants  of  $2  for  $1 towards  the  capital cost of establishing approved homes  for  aged  persons. 
and  (3)  The  Aged Persons  Homes Act was  amended  in  1967 and  to  extend  its  provisions  to  local authorities with  effect from  28  November  1966. 
No separate provision is made in the Estimates for grants likely to be made to local governing bodies. 
New South Wales- 1969-70, $172,520. Victoria- 1967-68, $26,667; 1968-69, $14,825; 1969-70, $109,703. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Social Services Act 1958, under which supplementary assistance was introduced, came into operation on 15th October 1958. Effective from 1st October 1965, the rate of the allowance was increased by $1 to $2 a week. 
and (3) No information is available showing average Australian rent for the years 1958 and 1970. 
Australian Capital Territory Police: Films of Gatherings (Question No. 1944)  Mr Whitlam  asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Of which gatherings have the Australian Capital Territory Police taken films since he became Minister. 
May I apologise to the Committee for my absence during part of the debate last night. Owing to the sittings of Cabinet, it was not possible for me to be here all the time. I want to speak briefly about some of the remarks made by the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  in the debate, particularly in relation to Weipa. The matters he raised were really not only matters in the competence of the Queensland Government but also substantially they were matters which arose before the passing of the referendum. He suggested, and I want to make this quite clear, that the Commonwealth should use its powers to prevent exports in order to coerce the Queensland Government in this regard. I think that this was an irresponsible suggestion. We on this side of the Parliament believe in the rights of the States, and we would not be a party to the kind of suggestion made by the honourable member for Kingston. 
I remind the Committee that Weipa is part of an immense development plan, the other part of which is at Gladstone and the associated complex. If it were not for the bauxite from Weipa, the great and desirable developments which are now occurring at Gladstone would be out of the question. I could not quite follow the honourable member's arithmetic in regard to the shares issued by Comalco, but let that pass. Forty thousand shares have been allocated for Aboriginals, but in addition to that I have acquired and hold in trust 10,000 shares which are specifically for the Aboriginals of the Weipa area. This is something which I hope will be repeated, and repeated on a greater scale. 
I would like to make a few remarks in regard to another matter raised by the honourable member for Kingston. This is a matter in which, if I may borrow a word which the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross)  used a few moments ago, there is not only a dichotomy among members of the Opposition but, logically, there is some kind of general dichotomy in our approach to these matters. He spoke of what he described as our apartheid policy. We have not got an apartheid policy. Let this be clear and definite. We do not think that as a permanent thing there will be 2 nations in Australia. Our position is quite different, for example, from that which is obtaining in certain parts of Africa. We want the position in which Aboriginals will choose for themselves, because of the nature of their development and the opportunities in front of them, to be part of the whole Australian nation. But let us not deprive the Aboriginals of the privacy of some kind of separate development as a temporary thing in the transition phase while they are preparing themselves to come into the wider fabric of Australian life. It is just here, 1 think, that - if I may use the phrase - the do-gooder is likely to do most harm. 
Aboriginals are not all in the one category. If one is speaking of the Aboriginals that most people know down here in the south then one would say that the direct assimilation process is the only one available. But for those Aboriginals who are in the north of Australia, those who are in areas of minimal contact with other people, it may be that there is some better way. I am not suggesting for one moment that we should have any permanent apartheid in Australia. That is the last thing which the Government or, I believe, the people of Australia or the Aboriginals themselves would desire. But we must give to the Aboriginal people themselves a certain degree of choice in this matter and a certain degree of privacy when they choose it for themselves, and in this period of transition. This is something which applies, as I said, not to the situation that most people know down here in the south but to the situation in the north where there are peoples who have only a small degree of contact with others. 
It is on this aspect that we find this kind of division between those who look for this kind of proper development which will, I am quite certain, result in the merging of the Aboriginal people into the general fabric of Australian life in the long run, and those who want to short-cut it, those people who would denounce as apartheid, as the honourable member for Kingston did last night, what is not apartheid but is only a reasonable policy. I do not impute, of course, to the honourable member for Kingston any but the highest motives in this regard. I do think that he is perhaps a little ill-informed and 1 think perhaps from what he said last night that he may be ranking himself among the do-gooders who, with the best intention in the world, may be doing a certain amount of harm. 
It is necessary to have some kind oi knowledge of this matter and, in particular, it is helpful to look at what happened in Australia in past times. We find, for example, that 150 years ago around Sydney and around the west of Victoria, 30 or 40 years later, that many people believed that all they had to do with the Aboriginals was to break up their civilisation or culture and to Europeanise them as quickly as possible and that all would be well. Look at the result. All was not well. This is something that happened in our past and some of the people who were concerned with this were people with the very highest motives. For example, there is nobody in Australian history who would have approached this problem with a greater degree of sincerity and dedication than Robinson of Tasmania. Indeed, not only did he approach it with the highest motives but also with a very great amount of contact with and knowledge of the Aboriginal people themselves. Yet his endeavours failed because, I believe, he was trying to Europeanise too fast and trying to bring these Tasmanians - I am talking now of a century ago - indirectly into the European framework without giving them the chance of a reasonable transition. 1 feel that he was somebody whose motives were of the highest order. He was a man for whose dedication we all have in retrospect the most unstinted admiration, and yet we see the unhappy result of what he was trying to do. I would not like this kind of error to be repeated and I would think from what I read of the remarks of the honourable member for Kingston that he might be in danger of falling into that error. 
In regard to the reserves in the Northern Territory which were mentioned by the honourable member for Brisbane, the position is that until fairly recently no action could be taken because of the failure of the Legislative Council of the Northern Territory to deal with the relevant land ordinances. That failure has now been remedied and there is machinery in operation. There are very big reserves in the Northern Territory. Some of these are poor land, some are desert land and some are mountainous, but included in them are some of the best lands in the Northern Territory. There are many, many millions of acres of absolutely first class land. I do not know whether many honourable members would have been over the Daly River Reserve. 
Yes, the Aboriginals often mention the honourable member with the very greatest admiration and respect. Little else is on their tongues. I do not know whether honourable members would know that the Daly River Reserve contains 2 plains, one to the north and the other to the south which are both absolutely first class land. They may not know about the even better Arafura plain which lies in the north of Arnhem Land and which consists of many, many millions of acres of absolutely first class land. This land is kept for Aboriginals and at the present moment we are trying to decide what is the best method of tenure. This is not easy to decide because in some cases individual tenure is asked for and in other cases group tenure is asked for, and the Aborignals themselves are not always clear in their own minds what they want in this regard. But we are going to do some things immediately which will not, of course, preempt the whole of the reserves but which will make it possible for all the Aboriginals who so desire to have access to land. In 3 places in Arnhem Land it is proposed to set up - and we are at the present moment examining the best way of setting up - large pastoral ventures which I hope will carry agricultural land and intensive farming with them. These places are on the Roper River, at the head of the Wilton River, north-west from the Bulman and in the Arafura Swamp which is near the site of the old Florida homestead. I hope that these projects will go forward. 
I am at present discussing the possibility of also having in some other place small farming tenures which could be available to individual Aboriginals because, as I have said, there is not an absolute uniformity in what the Aboriginals themselves want. This is the way in which these reserves in the north will be developed. Then we have the immense reserves in Central Australia. This is dry land. Some of it is good land by the standards of the centre of Australia. The Haasts Bluff area, for example, would be regarded as some of the best pastoral country in the centre of Australia. I am hopeful that here we will have a pastoral venture, which already exists, expanded and put more and more into Aboriginal hands. 
Proposed expenditures agreed to. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  said that he would speak for less than his time so that the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten)  and I might have an opportunity to reply. The honourable member was carried away. I realise - in fact I am quite certain - that the Opposition has approached this whole matter in a nonpolitical manner, because honourable members opposite have said so, and of course I must take their word for it. But judging from the tone of their speeches and the way in which they have been going on with this kind of rhetoric, one would have thought that they were concerned not with the pensioners but with the coming election. Indeed, it is rather peculiar to find that on the one hand the Government is accused of doing something good just before an election and, at another time, of doing something miserable just before an election. There does not seem to be very much consistency or logic in that. 
I would have thought that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition would know the difference between the merged means test and the tapered means test. If he looks at Hansard he will see that on several occasions in the course of his speech he was speaking about the merged means test when he meant the tapered means test I do ask him to. do his homework and, if he Wants to help the. pensioners, to try to find out what the truth of the matter is. Would the honourable member please get his facts right? He is the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and he should not make this kind of egregious error. 
I wish to speak about one or two minor matters. The honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  drew to my attention some time ago the case of a man who, he said, was 104. I had a look at the case. 1 found that the man concerned, as far as can be ascertained from our records, is not 104 but 100. But this is a small exaggeration. What was rather more to the point was- 
-As far as we can see from the records, he was 94 when he came here. The important point is that he came here under a guarantee of full maintenance from his son who lives here and who is, I understand, able to perform the conditions of that guarantee. Furthermore, I found that the man was paid a special benefit for about 3 or 4 years, erroneously and under the impression - I do not know how it came about - that he had come into Australia without any maintenance guarantee. Although I think he is liable to repay this amount of special benefit which was being paid under a false declaration or a mistake, or whatever it might be, I can assure the honourable member for Grayndler that we do not propose to press this matter and we will write off this liability. 
Let me come to some matters of rather more consequence and substance. It is a bit hard to be accused personally of doing nothing about the means test when the tapered means test which the Government brought in has been, I think, the greatest single advance on this whole front in the history of pensions in Australia. There have been other advances. Perhaps I am claiming too much when I say that it is the greatest single advance; at any rate it is a very, very great advance. It is a little bit hard to be told how little we are doing about pensions when, as a matter of fact, we have held their level - we have not increased it substantially, but we have held it at its peak. Do not let us run away with this kind of political propaganda, which is what it is. I want to do more for the pensioners, as everybody in this House on the Government side and on the other side wants to do more for the pensioners, and all sections of the Australian community. But the money we give to one section has to come from another. We have to try to balance this up. 
I have no doubt that as the productivity of the Australian economy changes and improves - I believe it will do that in spite of the very considerable shackles that are being put on it by industrial disruption which, I am afraid, honourable members of the Opposition are sponsoring - it will be possible then to give more to one section without taking it from the other, because we will be able to give it from the increased productivity. 1 will not take up the time of the House by going into this in detail. I spoke about it in my second reading speech on the Social Services Bill. I am glad of the interest shown by honourable members in the estimates for the Department of Social Services. I appreciate the constructive things that were said on both sides of the House. Honourable members have spent a lot of their time in regard to the aged persons homes scheme. They have been good enough to describe it as an excellent scheme, which indeed it is. I know that, like all human schemes, it is not free from defect. But do not let us exaggerate these defects. It is true that at the present moment - if honourable members will look at the schedules which I have circulated they will see this - about two-thirds of the beds being provided under this scheme are being provided free of donation. I pay tribute to the church and lay organisations which make this possible. 
About one-third of the beds come in with capital donations. One would think, listening to honourable members opposite, that they were not quite appreciative of these facts and that they were inclined to think that all beds in this scheme were beds donated by the incumbents and the residents. At all events let us be fair about this. The only other thing I want to say, because my friend the Minister for Repatriation needs to say something, is this: There has been a change in the outlook of the Australian community in regard to looking after its own old people. A few years ago there was none of this. The sub sidised nursing homes, were not available. The aged persons homes were not available. We are providing these things, and still our provision is not adequate for the demand. It is a new demand. It is a demand which is coming on because there is a new outlook among the Australian people and some improvement overall in the living standards of the whole of the Australian people. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - I call the Minister for Repatriation. 
Honourable members have evinced great interest in this question, and I know that this interest has been shown both inside and outside the House. These are human problems. The honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham)  referred to them as such. Not only are they human problems, they are tangled human problems, and I, for one, do not feel that we do right by our Aboriginal people by breaking up their family units. I believe we have to treat them as family units. I appreciate what has been said, for example, about the policy of enabling groups of Aboriginals to get together and find some kind of cohesion and common policy. I am glad that the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  and myself are thinking in terms more parallel than perhaps 1 had considered we were earlier this week, but I do point out to him two things. Firstly, in the Roper River and other reserves Aboriginals will not buy land. They will be allocated land without payment. Secondly, I did not say that we would exercise no authority over the States. What I did say was that I thought that the proposal that we should exercise authority by refusing export licences in certain circumstances - I think the honourable member for Kingston made that proposal - would not commend itself to the States and certainly did not commend itself to me. 
Let me say that we are looking at this Bill in the context of having increased by nearly 50 per cent the allocations to the States this year over last year. It is a big increase and it is bigger when we look at it in the context that this has been a Budget designed to check inflation and which has been restrained in so many directions. The States have approved the programmes in general terms, whether they be for housing or other things, and if honourable members will look at the second reading speech they will find attached to it in detail an account of the way in which the money was spent last year. It is not possible to give the same details for the expenditure in this financial year because in some respects the details have not been worked out. But they will be worked out between the States and my office as the year progresses and honourable members can be assured that the expenditure will be made in conformity with our general plan. In relation to that amount of money available we do have this general overall plan. The distribution of this money is not as random as some honourable members on the other side of the House would have had us think. 
I think the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  raised the question of expenditure in the Murray Valley. I think he will find, when he looks more closely at this matter, that there has been an increase in expenditure on Aboriginals in the Murray Valley area. I will see that that matter is looked up and that he receives details of it in the next few days. There has been, of course, a conflict of views to some extent in what has been said here today, at least by implication. The honourable member for Forrest  (Mr Kirwan),  for example, was in favour of getting rid of reserves. The honourable member for Riverina, if I took his remarks aright, was rather put out because reserves had been closed down. There is this conflict, as there must always be in this kind of tangled situation. But, because there is conflict, it does not mean that people necessarily are being stupid or anything of that character; it means that this is a complex problem and that the approach to it, even by members of the same party, is not always clear and definite. 
Two other matters have been raised. I will not keep the House long; I will just refer to them in passing. The first is in regard to the numbers of Aboriginals. It is true that the census that will take place next year will give us some better information on this matter. But, unfortunately, it will not be possible to rely entirely on the census information because the answers are no better than the way in which they are written. People do not always describe themselves as Aboriginal or nonAboriginal. It is up to them to decide how to describe themselves. We define an Aboriginal as somebody who is wholly or partly of Aboriginal blood, who himself claims to be an Aboriginal and who is accepted as such in the community with which he is associated. I believe that this is the best definition we can get. But the operative section is 'claims to be an Aboriginal'. 
We cannot rely entirely on the census figures. But I believe - perhaps this is a technical matter - that when we look at the age structure in any given sample we will be able to obtain from it a better idea of what is the rate of increase and the doubling time of our Aboriginal population. This is a matter of some mathematical complexity, but I believe that it will be the best instrument of analysis and that it will be better and will give us a more accurate result than any census enumeration. So, we will be looking at the census information and relying on it to some extent; but I do not think it will be possible to accept it in toto and unequivocally. 
The next matter is in regard to housing. This is the final matter on which I will speak. The amount of$4. 8m that is included in this Bill is by no means the total that is being spent this year on Aboriginal housing. For example, the States, from their own funds, are spending in their own areas, I think, rather more than we are. It is a large sum which is being spent from State funds and to which the Federal funds provide a supplement. Then, in the Northern Territory money is being spent on Aboriginal housing both through my own Office and through the normal vote of the Department of the Interior, the latter being a larger sum. Then there is the amount that is coming into hostels from votes that we are making under other heads. Of course, there is a certain amount of housing from our capital fund. 
There is also the question of ordinary finance for Aboriginal housing. I am glad to say that there is a good deal more of this than would be implied by the kinds of things that have been said in the House tonight. So, taking it all in all, what will be spent this year on Aboriginal housing will be vastly more than the amount of $1.1 m which I think the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross)  suggested was some kind of first part. I would like to say that I am grateful for his constructive approach to this whole question. I can assure him that his figure of $11m will be exceeded substantially this year. There are many other points that 1 would like to have raised, but.I am not. going to take up any more of the time of the House at this hour.. 
Debate interrupted. 
the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Information of the nature sought cannot be obtained in respect of a past point in time without a very considerable amount of work. If the honourable member wishes, consideration will be given to the practicability of providing equivalent information in respect of some suitable future date. 
I was so intent on keeping the matter quiet that [ did not visit the site at all! The newspaper report, which I have seen, is entirely incorrect. It is true that there have been certain discussions about the possible purchase of some houses - J do not know where - by an Aboriginal organisation to house its aged people. This organisation has discussed with me the principle of the proposal but there have been no commitments or negotiations. I am waiting for a proposal to be put to me. I cannot say whether this will be a good or bad proposal because 1 do not know what it is. I can only say that if the proposal is directed towards the proper housing of aged Aboriginals it will be supported by me in the most sympathetic way. However, my attitude on this matter will depend on the merits of the proposal. As I have said, I do not know what is contained in the proposal and the story that I visited the site is entirely untrue, as is the story that the Commonwealth Government has entered into any negotiations whatever in regard to this matter. 
The position is as I have stated previously in the House. Under the tapered means test people who previously were not eligible became eligible for a part pension and were not eligible for fringe benefits. There has been no change in that regard. I have informed the House that the matter of the withdrawal of pensioner medical cards is under consideration at present and I cao make no further statement about the matter at this stage. 
Although 1 have heard of the report the honourable member mentions I have not had the opportunity of studying it in detail. I do, however, agree with the general nature of the findings, and they bear out the findings of the school on Aboriginal health, particularly Aboriginal infant health, which was sponsored by my own Office of Aboriginal Affairs some time ago. I do agree, of course, that there are these serious diseases in the Aboriginal population. They are much less prevalent than they were because we are improving the situation but their incidence is still far too high. I am not satisfied with it and I do not think the honourable member will be satisfied with it either. 
As to the point he raises regarding deafness, yes, the respiratory diseases are quite strongly established in the Aboriginal population. I am not quite certain and, indeed, I think the medical profession would not regard itself as being completely certain, of the causes. To some extent this could be due to lack of Aboriginal immunity to some of the respiratory infections which we have introduced from overseas. To some extent it is due, I think, to the fact that Aboriginals live in smoke fined rooms or even smoke filled huts. This is something which they prefer to do even when more adequate accommodation is provided, although I would not say that in all cases by any means there is adequate alternative accommodation provided. I shall look particularly at the aspect which the honourable member raises because I am convinced that deafness is the cause of many of the imputed cases of mental retardation in both the Aboriginal and European population and that something effective can be done about this. The Government's proposals in regard to handicapped children relate to both Aboriginal and European children and are directed towards this objective. 
To the best of my recollection I have received no such direct representations. Indeed, this would not surprise me because it would appear that although the Leader of the Opposition makes many representations in public, for political purposes, in his own way of thinking his attitude to this question is somewhat different from the public presentation he would have' us believe. I recall that the honourable member for Shortland told us of what happened in the Labor Caucus. Apparently the Leader of the Opposition spoke of feather bedding when it was suggested by the honourable member for Shortland - and I have no doubt he suggested it - that the pension rate should be raised. I for one do not regard this as feather bedding. 1 would hope that as soon as it is economically practicable the rate will be raised. But I draw the attention of the House to the very notable discrepancy between the published - the intended to be published - attitude of the Leader of the Opposition and the attitude which he reveals in the comparative privacy of his own Caucus. I have no doubt in my own mind that the honourable member for Shortland has given us a truthful version of what there occurred. 
I would like to thank honourable members on both sides of the House for the reception they have given this Bill and the constructive comments they have made. There are only one or two fairly brief points I would like to make in reply. Firstly, the delay in regard to this Bill was due to the heavy legislative programme which, as honourable members very well know, has occupied the House during the past 12 months and more. Secondly, the honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon)  is absolutely right in saying that there has been no impeding of the mapping programme by reason of the failure to pass this Bill into law. 1 am glad to say there has been cooperation from landowners and Australians generally in this very forward and valuable programme. I am informed there are no possible claims against a survey officer or possible claims by a landowner outstanding. For that reason no question of retrospectivity need be considered although, of course, if there were any such claims undoubtedly it would be considered. 
The only other point which was raised was in regard to soil survey. I am sure the comments of the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  were well intentioned but perhaps he had not done his homework as well as he should. The Department of National Development in fact does produce a soils map in its atlas. Clause (h) under the definition 'survey' which refers to the survey of the earth's natural resources does cover this. There is one other practical point andI think on reflection he should realise how important it is. Soil surveys cannot be too generalised because conditions differ from one paddock to another paddock. It is important that not only the surface but the subsurface be delineated. These maps are probably very detailed and relate to relatively small and productive areas such as an irrigation area. Therefore, they do not quite fit into the same general pattern but the Government does realise their importance and it is proceeding with its programme. In point of fact the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, as the honourable member himself mentioned, has some special interest in and facilities for doing this. The Government, I can assure the House, has not underestimated the practical importance of this. May I again thank the House for the constructive and helpful reception which it has given this Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
-! think I should draw the attention of the House to the curious parallelism between the attitudes of the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  and the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  tonight. Both of them seemed to be concentrating on breaking down authority and denigrating the courts. I think perhaps that they might even have gone outside Standing Orders in so doing. 
The answer to the  hon ourable  member's  question  is as follows: 
to (3) The eradication of leprosy amongst Aboriginal people of Australia is seen by the Commonwealth as being within the framework of the general improvement of the health of Aborigines. My Office of Aboriginal Affairs and the Commonwealth Department of Health are planning an Australian wide study of these health problems that will produce a programme to improve the problem areas that we know exist. The modern methods of treatment for leprosy, which are based on home examination and medication, mean that such examinations can be carried out as part of a wider study, and that the treatment can be carried out by the medical staff in the area. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth approved the erection of a health hostel at Port Augusta in 1968-69. The South Australian authorities were not able to proceed with the construction of the hostel in that financial year and it was approved as part of their 1969-70 programme. To date only some $6,000 has been spent on the hostel and it seems unlikely that the building will be commenced this financial year. 
The Whyalla Aboriginal Association approached the Commonwealth for a grant  to  erect a hostel for working Aboriginal men  at  Whyalla. The South Australian Department of Aboriginal Affairs advised that the YMCA had constructed a hostel at Whyalla which could cater for Aboriginal working men. In the circumstances it was decided not to fund the hostel at Whyalla at this stage. There are no plans  to  erect other hostels for Aboriginal men in the northern Spencer Gulf area of South Australia. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information sought by the honourable member will be found in the attachments to my second reading speech of the States Grants (Aboriginal Advancement) Bill 1970, on 15th October 1970. 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
(a) Accurate information is not available for Australia as a whole to enable calculation of the precise information requested. I have been advised that figures ascertained from the latest information available in the Northern Territory, from the Northern Territory Administration, which is the responsibility of the Commonwealth, give for 1968, an infant mortality rate of 80.91/ 1,000 live births. 
The table below gives the age mortality rates for the Northern Territory in that year. Note that in the 2 to 8 years age group ' there were very few deaths and that several of these were attributable to accidental drownings. 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows. This information has been provided by the relevant State authorities. 
The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
Based on the present number of non-pensioner wives of pensioners, including wives receiving wives' allowances, it is estimated that the proposal would cost some $7. 5m a year. This total cost would remain the same irrespective of whether the adjustments were made immediately or by equal increments over a period of 3 or 6 years. In the. latter event, of course, the cost each year, until the proposal became fully operative, would be higher than that of the preceding year by onethird or one-sixth of the total cost. 
In arriving at the estimate of $7.5m it has been assumed that the proposal would involve reducing the husband's pension in each case by $1.75 a week, i.e. from the standard rate to the married rate, and cancelling supplementary assistance, where payable. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Since my answer of. last year, the Commonwealth Statistician has compiled a new Gross National Product series .'at constant prices covering the period 1948-49 to 1969-70. The series is comprised of three overlapping series, one at average prices of 1953-54 (1948-49 to 1959-60), one at average prices of 19.59-60 (1953-54 to 1966-67) and one at average prices of 1966-67 (1959-60 to 1969-70). These series have been linked on the basis of the' earliest possible years (1953-54 and 1959-60) and the continuous series thus obtained is included id the table" below. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
to' "(4) Except in respect of New South Wales, little of the information requested by the honourable member is readily available. For New South Wales, the annual report of the Department of Local Government  for  the year 1968-69. the latest report published to date, contains information as to the number of local authorities, the local authorities granting rebates to pensioners and the cost to each authority of rebates granted during the year. In addition, the Local Government Statistical Register for New South Wales, published by the Bureau of Census and Statistics, Sydney, provides details of the total rate income of each local authority.  The latest Register available was published in 1969 in respect of the year 1965. 
If the above information in respect of New South Wales would  be  useful to the honourable member, it can be provided. 
The answer to  the  honourable members question is as follows: 
Current  at  30 June 1970. 
1968 .. .. 114,745 
1969 .. .. 121,744 
1970 .. .. 133,766 
(a) Invalid pensioners are not required .individually to seek rehabilitation from the Commonwealth, Case records of all persons in the workingage group newly granted invalid pensions are referred by Departmental sources to the Commonwealth Rehabilitation Service for consideration of rehabilitation assistance. Numbers of invalid pensioners, referred in this way to the Commonwealth Rehabilitation Service during the past 10 years are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
. (3) and (4) Where a claimant for pension has dispossessed himself of assets without appropriate consideration the practice is to place him, as far as possible, in the same position for pension purposes as if he had not disposed  of  the assets. In arriving at this position a reasonable allowance is made in respect of living expenses according to the individual circumstances of the particular case. This has been the general practice since the inception of the Department. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
and (3) Discussions related to the question of a reciprocal agreement on social security with  the  Maltese Government have not yet been completed. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Within the grants to the States for education projects, a sum of $17,000 was allocated in the 1969-70 financial year for school libraries at the following centres in Queensland: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 

 Dr Kent-Hughes has made representations on this and other topics from time to time. 
The amount of the standard rate pension rose by 19 per cent between the time the present Government assumed office and 30th September 1970. In the same period the consumer price index rose by 9 per cent. Thus the increase in the pension rate for this period was about double that necessary to maintain purchasing power as measured by the consumer price index. Along with other welfare policy questions, invalid pension conditions will be considered when social service benefits are being reviewed. 
Postal Department: 5-day Week  (Question No.  1302) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It would not be appropriate to give any details about meetings of representatives of the Departments concerned with welfare policy except to say that liaison and consultation is constantly taking place. 
For the information of honourable membersI present details of sheltered workshops approved under the Sheltered Employment (Assistance) Act 1967-70 as at 31st December 1970. I ask leave of the House to make a short statement in connection with this matter. 
No. 
A few moments ago 1 laid on the table of this House for the information of honourable members some material regarding sheltered workshops, ft contained a list of the sheltered workshops which were set out in electorates. At the same time I sought leave of the House to make a short statement which had already been shown to the Opposition and cleared with the Opposition, but leave was refused. I now take the opportunity to make that statement. 
I think that when the honourable member for Barton hears what I have to say, which was known to the Opposition, he will not use this kind of language. I now make the statement. I have laid on the table of the House a schedule showing sheltered workshops approved under the Act as at 31st December 1970. Honourable members will see that these have been set out in electorates so that each honourable member can see at a glance all the organisations in his own area. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Dobie)There is no point of order. The grievance debate is an open debate for any member of this place. 
-I continue.I have laid this schedule on the table of the House for the convenience of honourable members so that each honourable member can see at a glance all the sheltered workshops in his own area. I am arranging for copies of this list to be circulated to all honourable members with the double objective; firstly, of keeping them informed as to activities in their own electorates and, secondly, of mobilising their support for the maintenance and extension of our very excellent system of sheltered workshops. Honourable members will recall that on 8th April 1970 1 circulated a similar list concerning aged persons homes and have subsequently provided further information keeping that list up to date. I propose, from time to time, to issue further lists showing new sheltered workshop approvals. 
I should like to express my gratitude to honourable members on both sides of the House for the assistance they render both to the sheltered workshop movement and to the aged persons homes movement. That is the complete text of the statement which I had proposed to make and which was known to the Opposition. As you well know,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  the custom in this House is that when ministerial statements are to be made by leave they are first shown to the Opposition and leave is obtained. It is also, 1 think, a similar custom that when the Opposition wants to make its own statement it shows a copy to the Government in advance so that, in the same way, leave can be obtained. This was not done on this occasion. I know that it is very difficult for the Leader of the House  (Mr Snedden)to  conduct the business of the House when he makes arrangements with the Opposition and those arrangements are not honoured and not kept. 1 have every desire, of course, to maintain the customs and usages of this House and to see that they are observed properly, but I have no desire at all to limit or inhibit any debate on the sheltered workshop movement. Indeed, 1 would welcome such debate, and I hope that it will proceed. 1 have tried in this statement, which honourable members will see is not a political statement, to express my gratitude to members on both sides of the House for what they do for the sheltered workshop movement and to express my hope that members on both sides of the House will extend and continue their work in this matter. This is all I am trying to do. I am not in any way endeavouring to stifle any comment on the statement I have made. 1 think honourable members will agree that it is an entirely objective, non-political, factual statement which is meant to assist members on both sides of the House in their own electorates and, what is more important, to assist the sheltered workshop movement by bringing in members of both sides of the House in support of it. I have no complaintsto make of the assistance which members have rendered in the past. Indeed, as I have said, I express my gratitude for what they have done. It beats me entirely why, when it was known that J was to make a simple non-political statement on this matter, leave should be refused. 
If the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  wishes to enter this debate now, if he wishes to support or to oppose what I have said or if he wants to say anything which will further the interests of the sheltered workshops movement, he has his chance. He is as free as I to enter this debate.I would welcome from him, or from any honourable member, whether he be an Opposition member or a Government member, any support for this movement. It is an excellent movement which is meant to help people in the community who need and deserve the help of the Government, the help of honourable members and the help of other people in the Australian community. 
As the honourable member will know the present floods are quite unprecedented. They have affected not only Aboriginals but also all other persons in that area. He would also know that in consultation with the State authorities and the Civil Defence organisations the Commonwealth authorities, and particularly the Army, have been co-operating in an endeavour to mitigate the effects of this natural disaster. Of course the Aboriginals have shared in the general relief which the Commonwealth through its instrumentalities and with the New South Wales authorities has endeavoured to afford to people in the area. 
As the honourable member said in his question there are some special problems for Aboriginals who live on the river banks in accordance with their traditional way of life and their traditional customs, because they were river people. These Aboriginals have been flooded out. In consultation with the New South Wales Minister for Child Welfare and Minister for Social Welfare,  Mr Hewitt,  I arranged for the Army to make available emergency tentage especially for the relief of these Aboriginals. This has been made available in certain towns. I understand that 50 tents have been made available in Bourke, 36  -  if I remember correctly - in Moree and in Brewarrina and various other towns. At present my officers are in consultation with the officers of the New South Wales Government. I have been in consultation with the Minister for the Interior and the State authorities in this matter to see whether some cooking and marquee arrangements could be made on a temporary basis using Army equipment for these Aboriginals. 
Looking ahead, I hope that as a result of this the New South Wales Government will be able to proceed yet further with its plans for better housing for Aboriginals in this area. Let me say 2 things. Firstly, at the present moment the housing is in many respects quite unsatisfactory and, secondly, in the last 4 or 5 years more improvements have been made than ever before. These improvements are continuing under the joint policy of this Government and the New South Wales Government. I hope that this improvement will continue and accelerate. Secondly in the last few years there has been an immense improvement in these areas in the relationship between the Aboriginal people and  the  other people. I note this with gratitude, as I am sure everybody will. 
I have never heard an honourable member in this House destroy himself more effectively than did the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden).  A few moments ago he assured us that his motion had no political significance and then he took off the mask and talked about the political deathtrap and things of that character. This man is not an honest man. 
Certainly. I might have been deceived,  Mr Speaker. 
I withdraw the remark. 
I have indeed withdrawn the remark,  Mr Speaker.  I find it very difficult to reconcile what the honourable member said a few moments ago with what he said when speaking to the matter of urgency that he raised. He is, of course, an honourable man. The phrase is well known. However, I cannot find any way of- 
I say that the honourable member for Oxley has brought forward no compelling reason to show why the Standing Orders should be suspended. In his speech he entirely destroyed his own credibility on the major issue. 
 Mr Speaker,  it is quite clear that the Opposition is not raising this matter of public importance in sincerity and for the purpose which appears on the face of it. It is being raised, as honourable members opposite themselves have said, for a political purpose. They are out to make pensioners the normal political football which they have been trying to do for so long. The Opposition lives on misery, it hopes for misery, and it wants to make misery because it believes that it will ride to power on discontent. 
This matter of public importance was raised purely and simply for a political purpose. It was brought on at short notice. It was introduced not honestly for the purpose which appears on the face of it. It was raised for a. political purpose. 
Let me look at the wording of the matter of public importance. It refers to: 
The failure of the Government to make immediate adjustment in social service benefits to restore at least the purchasing power lost since the last Budget. . . . 
The truth of the matter is that pensions are adjusted at Budget time, and at last Budget time they were adjusted in accordance with movements in the cost of living and in such a way as this Government has done for many years, that is, to make allowance for future movements in the cost of living. That is why the real value of the pension has been raised and the figures show it. There have been rises in the cost of living since. They have been a little faster than we would like and they have been a little faster than normally, but they have not been so fast that we should add to them by making further increases in Government expenditure. 
Secondly, the matter of public importance refers to the poverty line established by the Melbourne University. The Melbourne University's poverty line is not holy writ. I read with a great deal of interest, respect and attention what has been written on this question by the Melbourne University. But I point out to the House that the so-called up-dating of the poverty line is not a strictly logical exercise because the Melbourne University took a poverty line which had been determined in relation to need and up-dated it in relation to average earnings. This was not logical. With the concurrence of honourable members, I incorporate in Hansard a table showing the way in which present pensions, in almost all cases, substantially exceed the up-dated poverty line as shown poverty line up-dated in accordance with by the Melbourne University and the the cost of living. 

<graphic href="071131197102221_18_2.jpg"></graphic>

I have pointed out that there are two ways to look at this matter: One can up-date the poverty line, which was determined originally on the basis of need, in accordance with the cost of living, or one can up-date it in accordance with average earnings. The first way seems to me to be the more logical although it was the second way which was chosen for the Melbourne survey. The table which I have presented shows that the pension is now above the poverty line by 34c for a single male age pensioner, by $1.54 for a single female age pensioner and by $4.72 for a married age pensioner couple. It is true that if one were to up-date the poverty line on earnings one would get a different kind of result. But the point is that average earnings have risen much faster than prices. This is something which we would not normally be worried or distressed about, but the increase in wages and earnings above productivity is really putting the squeeze on pensioners and placing them in a jam. Between the March quarter of 1968, which is when the Gorton Government came into office, and the September quarter of 1970  -  the last available figure - the consumer price index rose by 8-1/ 3rd per cent but average earnings rose by more than 3 times that figure; in fact they rose by 28 per cent. This increase is really at the base of the present trouble because there has not been a corresponding increase in productivity. 
One of the main problems of pensioners and the economy has been the undue pressure brought to bear upon resources by increases in average earnings. These increases have been far greater than increases in the minimum wage or award wages. The increases in average earnings, which have been brought about by this pressure, are squeezing the pensioners as well as other members of the community. If productivity is rising it is possible to permit- in fact, the Government will encourage - wages to rise. This can be done without increasing prices. But if wages rise without a corresponding increase in productivity there is a squeeze on the real resources. This is at present, as I have said, jamming the pensioners as well as everybody else in the community. 
I do not think that it would be stretching the long bow to say that honourable members opposite, by their encouragement of certain intransigent and irresponsible elements in the trade union movement, have been contributing materially to this state of affairs. So when the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  speaks of pensions as a percentage of average earnings he would be quite right if he correlated average earnings with proper productivity. But he failed to correlate productivity with these really momentous increases in average earnings which have been at the base of the price rises. I suggest to the Opposition that it should try to put its own house in order in this respect instead of trying to make political capital out of the present position of pensioners and trying to- 
I realise the embarrassment of the honourable member for Oxley and I make some allowance for him. This Government has done more in the field of social services than any other Government. It has done things in regard to not only the pension rate but also the other services which are available to pensioners. I was pleased to hear the honourable member for Oxley advert to the question of accommodation for pensioners, which is one of the main features of the Government's plan to improve their position. 
Yes, there is still room for improvement, but there is much less room now than there was because although the Government has not entirely eliminated the trouble by its measures it has very much reduced it and is still reducing it. Do honourable members opposite recall that $25m was given to the States for them to accommodate aged persons? Do they recall the accommodation which has been provided under the sheltered workshops programme and the aged persons homes scheme? Perhaps honourable members opposite have forgotten these things, but they are some of the things that the Government has done in its main drive to increase the standard of living of all pensioners. 1 have been looking at the figures which have been provided in detail by the Department of Social Services on this subject. It would appear mat at the present moment something like 1 pensioner in 16 is in need of better accommodation at a reasonable figure. This is still a significant percentage and we should not be satisfied with it. I am certainly not satisfied with it. But the Opposition should concede what has been done by this Government and its pedecessors over the last 20 years. When talking about the material standard of living of pensioners one should look at the value of their pension in terms of real purchasing power. Allowing for the fringe benefits, which at present average over $5 a week, the real value of the pension under this Liberal-Country Party Government is almost twice what it was when Labor was last in power. Do honourable members opposite remember what a Labor government did when it was last in power? Do they remember how .  Mr Chifley,  who was their leader then, in the face of very steeply rising prices refused in his last Budget to increase the pension? Very few honourable members opposite were here then, but some were and- they supported that Budget. Why was it all right then not to increase the  pension  rate when it is so bad now? Where is the change? Why these double standards? The Australian Labor Party is trying to make the payment of increased pensions a political issue and only a political issue. I know that there have been troubles about the sincerity of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  on this issue. These troubles are well known. 1 know that  Honourable  members opposite want to try to cover up for htm. Naturally every member of the Party is loyal to his leader and wants to cover up for his past mistakes and his past slips of expression; but honourable members opposite are doing this in a political way. 
One of the troubles that have naturally arisen from the Government's policy is this: For years now there have been continuous increases in the standard of living of pensioners and now that the increases have been stopped and the rate has been held at the top level people have been getting the idea that there has been a decrease, which  is  not correct. We have reached, as it were, a plateau in increasing the standard  of  living of pensioners but we have not yet reached the peak. I can assure honourable members - I know that this is the feeling of the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  - that we are only on a plateau now and are gathering our forces for a new increase in the real standard of living  of  pensioners, i know that this is the position. We are on a plateau now because the economy is overstretched and the Government is trying to bring under control the forces of inflation which threaten pensioners as well as everybody else. But we will not bc content to remain on this plateau. It will not be long before the Government resumes its 20 years of continuous progress in increasing the standard of living of pensioners. This will not involve simply the question of raising pension rates, although I have no doubt that this will be partly involved. However, there are other things as well which are of even greater importance to pensioners. The Government has these things fully in its sights and is at present making the appropriate plans for their implementation. 
May I say by way of preface that I accept entirely the seriousness and sincerity of the honourable member for Capricornia in this matter, however much I may disagree with what he may or may not have said. My attention has been drawn to certain proceedings before, I understand, the Duaringa Shire Council. If I remember correctly the honourable member was reported to have advocated not just the sterilisation of Aboriginals, but the compulsory sterilisation of certain classes of pensioner. I imagine that the honourable member was not referring to age pensioners. I understand that he was advocating the sterilisation of certain classes of pensioner but that the Duaringa Shire Council did not accept his views on the matter. I believe also that he said something with regard to Aboriginals specifically. I am not certain what he implied - whether all Aboriginals should be sterilised or only certain classes of Aboriginals. Tn view of the paucity of my information on the subject perhaps the honourable member would care to tell us what he did say. 
My attention has indeed been drawn to the remarks of the Queensland Premier which received some publicity in the local Press. I do not know whether the Leader of the Opposition is endeavouring to support the proposition that nothing should be done to change the law in Queensland which prevents the free movement of Aboriginals and which to some extent gives control over the properly of assisted Aboriginals. I do not know whether that is what is behind his question or not. 
I am glad to accept the honourable gentleman's assurance in that matter. I am very glad indeed. So far from my being reluctant to take pressmen around the Northern Territory, the Leader of the Opposition might know that not very long ago the Minister for Defence and 1 did take a group of pressmen around the Northern Territory. So that challenge of the Queensland Premier is perhaps a little out of date. I also noticed in this Press report that he implied that I was unfamiliar with the settlements in Queensland to which he had taken the Press. The Premier should remember it. because he does know it, and I am surprised that it has slipped his memory, but I can assure him that I have been to these settlements, and although I may not know the Queensland situation with the same intimacy as he should know it, I do have a certain advantage in this matter in that I am familiar with the situation in other parts of Australia. I would therefore perhaps have at my command certain standards of comparison which might be lacking to him. 
by leave - 1 accept the assurance of the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham)  in this matter. I will lay on the table of the House extracts from the Rockhampton Morning Bulletin' of 5th February 1971. I think I should read these to the House. Undoubtedly the honourable member's local Press has misreported him and I think this should be laid on the line. The Press report slates: 
The Duaringa Shire Council has strongly rejected a suggestion by  Dr Everingham.  M.I-I.R., that some classifications of people on public assistance should be made sterile. 
I will not read out the whole article but will lay it on the table, lt is obvious that the honourable member has been grievously misreported in the local Press, which should be taken to task for so doing. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Local authorities in all States are empowered under their respective Local Government Acts to remit or defer payment of rates due by pensioners and/or persons in necessitous circumstances. Some local authorities remit or reduce rates, others allow them to accumulate and become a charge on the estate of the individual while others grant no assistance with rate. The only information available as to assistance made available by State Governments and specific municipal authorities relates to New South Wales where a subsidy of 50 per cent of rebates allowed to pensioners is paid to the local authority concerned by the Stale Government. 
(a) Apartfrom the payment of pensions, the Social Service Act does not authorise any assistance for pensioners as aid towards payment of municipal rates, 
Under Commonwealth-State financial arrangements, the Commonwealth is providing to the States very large sums of general revenue assistance which the States are free to use for any purpose including assistance to municipal authorities towards the cost of rate relief for pensioner home-owners. 
To the best of my recollection I have received no such direct representations. Indeed, this would not surprise me because it would appear that although the Leader of the Opposition makes many representations in public, for political purposes, in his own way of thinking his attitude to this question is somewhat different from the public presentation he would have us believe. I recall that the honourable member for Shortland, told us of what happened in the Labor Caucus. Apparently the Leader of the Opposition spoke of feather bedding when it was suggested by the honourable member for Shortland - and I have no doubt he suggested it - that the pension rate should be raised. 1 for one do not regard this as feather bedding. I would hope that as soon as it is economically practicable the rate will be raised. But I draw the attention of the House to the very notable discrepancy between the published - the intended to be published - attitude of the Leader of the Opposition and the attitude which he reveals in the comparative privacy of his own Caucus. I have no doubt in my own mind that the honourable member for Shortland has given us a truthful version of what there occurred. 
PERSONAL EXPLANATION 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is not unusual for new programmes to require some time for organisation and development. The only social welfare programme administered, by my Department that has not yet become operative in ail States is that authorised by the States Grants (Home Care) Act 1969. In respect of this Act the State of Victoria has not yet sought assistance. 
The legislation, which was assented to on 14th June 1969 grants financial assistance to the States for the provision of Home Care Services, Senior Citizens' Centres and the employment of Welfare Officers by Senior Citizens' Centres. Provision is made in the Act for annual expenditure by the Commonwealth of $500,000 for Home Care Services. The amount available for Senior Citizens' Centres and Welfare officers' salaries is subject to annual appropriation. For 1970-71 the estimate is $275,000. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the residents of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
The red kangaroo and many other marsupials, through shooting for commercial purposes, have been reduced to a numerical level where their survival is in jeopardy. 
None of the Australian States have sufficient wardens to detect and apprehend people breaking the laws in existence in each state, and in such a vast country only uniform laws and a' complete cessation of commercialisation can ensure the survival of our National Emblem. 
It is an indisputable fact that no natural resource can withstand hunting on such a concentrated scale, unless some provision is made for its future. 
We, your petitioners, therefore humbly pray that: 
The export of all kangaroo products be banned immediately, and the Commonwealth Government make a serious appraisal of its responsibility in the matter to ensure the survival of the kangaroo. 
And, your petitioners, as in duty bound will ever  pray. 
Petition received and read. 
The question of major changes in the social services structure has been engaging my attention for some time and I shall, in due course, be making a submission to Cabinet. 1 think, because it is a policy matter, that 1 had better not discuss details now. I have had some preliminary conversations with the Government Members Social Services Committee and I shall look forward to the advice and help that members of that Committee can give me in the preparation of various plans and, perhaps, in distinguishing between various alternative plans which might be proposed to be brought forward. I have not had any communication from the Opposition Members Social Services Committee nor, indeed, would 1 expect any in view of the equivocal nature of their approach to this social service question which they regard always as one of gaining political advantage rather than honestly trying to help pensioners. I would at some stage in the House, when an opportunity presents itself, make a statement but I do not want to take up question time with a lengthy reply. However, there is one matter of veracity which has to be settled in this House between the Leader of the Opposition and the honourable member for Shortland. I would not, of course, say, and you,  Mr Speaker,  would rightly rule it out of order, that one of them was a liar. 
 Mr Speaker,  yes, I have been misrepresented. Several Opposition speakers in this debate have stated thatI did not know about the increase in social service benefits until it was announced in this House by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon).  That,  Sir, is  completely and utterly untrue. While one is used to the kind of sanctimonious piffle that one gets from the honourable member for Lang-- 
Thank you. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No information is available as to the number of naturalised Australians who are qualified by age and means for the age pension, but who are not receiving it because they are unable to satisfy the residence qualification. It is therefore not possible to estimate the cost of paying age pensions to such persons. Similarly, information about the means of persons of age pension age who are not residentially qualified for the pension is not available. However, on the basis of information available from the 1966 Census, and making certain assumptions as to mortality and migration, it is estimated that the cost of paying an age pension free of the means test to all persons not qualified by residence but qualified by age, would be in the vicinity of $20m per annum. The proportion of this cost which would be incurred in respect of persons who are naturalised Australians is unknown. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There is no provision in the Sheltered Employment (Assistance) Act specifying the area of land that will qualify for subsidy in relation to the number of handicapped people to be accommodated in a hostel project. Nor is any rigid policy observed in this regard in the administration of the legislation. 
The general conditions relating to grants under the Aged Persons Homes Act are used only when appropriate as a guide to the conditions applicable to grants towards the cost of hostels for disabled people. 
The need for reasonable social and recreational facilities in hostels for disabled people is recognised and provision for them may be included in the capital cost of a hostel for subsidy purposes. 
(a) It may be unduly restrictive in some cases to impose a limit of 6 persons for each acre of land that is approved for subsidy. 
There are significant differences in the respective roles of sheltered workshops and rehabilitation centres and each needs to be accommodated, and equipped, according to the service which it is intended to provide. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
single age pension; 
child endowment for one child under 16 years of age; 
child endowment for three children under 16 years of age; 
unemployment or sickness benefit for a married person and spouse expressed as a percentage of: 
the average of the Commonwealth Basic Wage paid to adult mates at the end of each quarter 
average weekly earnings per employed male unit for each year since 1944-45. 
The answers to the honourable members questions are as follows: 
and (2) 1 understand that, in certain circumstances, civilians are able to obtain prosthetic aids and appliances from Repatriation Artificial Limb and Appliance Centres. However, these services do not come under my administration. 
The Commonwealth Rehabilitation Service, which is administered by my Department, is responsible for helping handicapped people to reach their maximum physical fitness and preparing them for suitable employment. This service is available free of charge to qualified invalid and widow pensioners, persons in receipt of unemployment, sickness and special benefit and certain other groups. In addition to the normal treatment and training programme it is possible to provide, at no cost to the rehabilitee, surgical aids and appliances such as artificial limbs, wheelchairs, hearing aids etc. The question of extending the service to other persons in the community is a matter of Government policy. 
No estimate has been made ot the cost of providing prosthetic aids and appliances to all civilian applicants with physical disabilities. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information relating to each State has been provided by the relevant State authority, and that for the Northern Territory has been provided by my colleague the Minister for the Interior. 
NEW SOUTH WALES 
The records of the Aborigines Welfare Boa id relating to Crown Land reserved for the use of Aborigines were incomplete and at present action is in hand to bring those records up to date. So far as the future leasing or other use of Crown Land reserved for the use of Aborigines is concerned, the New South Wales Minister will be seeking the advice of the Aborigines Advisory Council on these matters in due course. 
VICTORIA 
Three residents have requested to lease land on Framlingham Reserve near Warrnambool for dairy farming. The recent decision by the Victorian Government to hand over Aboriginal Reserves in Victoria to Aboriginal ownership has altered the situation. This matter is therefore still under consideration. 
QUEENSLAND 
Applications for leases of reserved lands in Queensland are processed by the Lands Department which docs not identify applicants by race. So far as Aboriginal Reserve lands within the control of the Department of Aboriginal and Island Affairs are concerned, two applications have been received from Aborigines and have been granted. 
SOUTH AUSTRALIA 
In South Australia the Aboriginal Lands Trust Act has been enacted to ensure title in the existing Aboriginal Reserves to the Aboriginal people through the Aboriginal Lands Trust in order to develop both the lands vested in the Trust and the Aboriginal people. According to its annual report for the year ending 30th June 1969 5,900 acres had been transferred to the Trust. As the Trust is an independent body, full details of the leases granted are not readily available. The Trust has appointed an Aboriginal Manager to carry out the comprehensive agricultural development programme drawn up in respect of Gum Park and Block 'K' comprising 3,338 acres. Another Aboriginal has leased the Poonindie Reserve from the Lands Trust for agricultural purposes. 
The Point Pearce Aboriginal Reserve Council has requested that the reserve lands be transferred to the Trust. At this stage, however, the request is still being investigated. 
Land at Point Pearce has not been leased by Aborigines. However, since prior to 1940 and by agreement, Aboriginal sharefarmers have been and still are carrying out a full farming programme on that reserve. The area cropped by the sharefarmers since 1964 is approximately 4,000 acres annually. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. The 1969-70 Annual Report of the Commonwealth Capital Fund for Aboriginal' Enterprises indicated that 65 applications for assistance were declined and 133 were withdrawn or treated as lapsed, out of a total of 335 applications. This figure was made up of 254 applications received during the year and 81 brought forward from  the  previous year. 
No. The value of approvals during the year was $699,868, and together with approvals of $328,096 during the previous year, the total of approvals for assistance from the Capital Fund up to 30th June 1970 amounted to $1,027,964. Of. the funds of $5m, a sum of $350,000 was given as a direct Commonwealth loan to the Government of Queensland to develop a water supply for the Aboriginal communities at Bamaga. The amount available for assisting Aboriginal ' enterprises was thus $4,650,000. 
Utilisation of the Capital Fund for assisting enterprises amounted to 7 per cent during the first year of operation, while in the second year thisfigure increased 15 per cent, making a total of 22 per cent for the 2 years. This cannot be considered low, having regard to the small nurn- bers of Aborigines who wish to undertake business enterprises. It is significant that during the 2 years, a total of 386 applications were received, of which 60 were approved, 76 declined, and in 15S cases the applicants did not wish to proceed with the enterprises for which they sought assistance. 
The essential criterion in evaluating applications is the likelihood of the enterprise being a success, and not mere compliance with traditional lending practice. In most cases where loans are made, they represent 100 per cent of the capital required, and this is completely foreign to traditional lending practice. In addition, because of the special circumstances of the applicants, costs of investigation of enterprises are met from the Fund, loans are made on comparatively long  terms  and at much lower rates of interest than are normally obtainable, repayments of principal and interest are deferred where necessary, and financial aid management guidance are provided by the appointment of public accountants who are paid from the fund. 
The only restriction on loans is thai the enterprises to be assisted must be seen to have prospects of success in the long run. 
Ordinarily, an interest rate of 5 per cent per annum is charged, but this has been reduced in cases where circumstances warranted it. Interest is charged because the Act does not visualise interest-free loans. Besides, it would not be to the advantage of Aboriginal entrepreneurs to be insulated from the commercial realities of the business world they are being encouraged to enter. 
No. 
No. Matters such as collateral, the previous banking record of applicants, and traditional criteria are not regarded as sine qua non in considering the viability of a proposed enterprise. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Bill gives effect to the announcement made by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  on 15th March that an immediate increase would be granted in pensions now being paid at maximum rates, with similar increases for certain other benefits. The increase of 50c a week in the basic standard rate payable to age, invalid and widow pensioners will bring the new rate to $16 a week - this, of course, excludes additions to the pension such as supplementary assistance and additional payments for children. The increase of $1 a week for married couples will bring their combined basic rate to $28.50 a week. The maximum basic rate for widows without children will rise to $14.25 a week. The full increase of 50c will be payable to all pensioners who are now receiving the maximum rate - that is, those whose means as assessed are not more than $10 a week in the case of unmarried persons or $17 a week for married couples. A proportion of the 50c increase will be payable to unmarried pensioners whose means as assessed fall between $10 a week and $11 a week and to married pensioners where the combined means as assessed of husband and wife are between $17 a week and $19 a week. The provisions to pay portion of the 50c increase to these pensioners will ensure that their total income is not less than that of maximum rate pensioners with full allowable means. Similar increases will apply to sheltered employment and rehabilitation allowances. Long-term sickness benefits will also be increased by 50c a week, bringing the maximum rate to $16 a week for single adults and married minors or to $10.50 a week for other persons. These rates apply after a person has been in receipt of sickness benefit for a continuous period of 6 weeks. Additional amounts payable for dependants will, where applicable, continue as at present. 
The Government has decided on these increases outside the course of the Budget having regard to movements in the Consumer Price Index since pension rates were last fixed. In addition, honourable members will recall that the Prime Minister has indicated that the increase in pension rates proposed here is an interim measure only and he said that 'any increases given in the budget would, in justice to pensioners, need to be quite substantial'. Furthermore he stated that the Government is undertaking 'a fundamental review of social services and related pensions and also of methods of adjusting such benefits. This review, which has already been commenced, will be under consideration in the near future with the object of bringing emerging decisions into effect for the year 1971-1972'. 
Honourable members will be interested in the progress that has been made over the years by Liberal-Country Party governments in improving the real value of pensions - honourable members who are interjecting will appreciate this. The rates proposed will not only be the highest on record in terms of money, but will also give to pensioners a greater purchasing power than at any previous time in Australia's history. A table has been prepared, having regard to the Consumer Price Index for the December 1970 quarter - the latest available - showing the actual purchasing power of the pension in force at various dates since 1947, expressed in terms of current prices. I seek the concurrence of the House to incorporate this in Hansard. 
The honourable member for Oxley has brought this on his own head. I did not want to examine the motives and the probabilities. I dislike trying to weigh the truthfulness of  2  members of the Opposition but it has been forced upon me by the honourable member for Oxley. 
Yes. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker- 
This has been a long debate, but I do not think it has been entirely a wasted one. Things have been said by honourable members on both sides of the House which have been worth saying. I should like to make just one or two remarks in passing and I shall not keep the House long. I agree that it is not entirely relevant to talk about the level of the pension paid by the Chifley Government. However it is the last pension that the Australian Labor Party was able to bring in, because it has not been in power for a very long time. It is perfectly true that Australia in Chifley's day was not nearly as prosperous as it is today, but it is also true - I remind the House of this, because 1 think the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Cope)  went rather astray on this point - that in 1949, when the rise in prices under the Chifley Government was much faster than it has been in recent times, the pension was not increased at the same rate as prices rose. So the real value of pensions was allowed to fall. That is worth remembering and I think that it rather takes the shine from some of the arguments - and some of them were sincere and well put - advanced by the honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson).  1 think that certain members of the Opposition, particularly yesterday, were rather ill-advised to talk about widows pensions because this is one area in which the Government has really done a tremendous amount. Under this legislation, a widow with 2 children will receive $30 a week. This compares with $11.54 a week, on present prices, that she would have received under the Chifley Government. This is a tremendous rise - it is perhaps the biggest of all the pension rises - but I agree that it will rise still further. 
The honourable member for Sydney posed 2 questions. Firstly, he asked whether $16 a week was enough. The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  does not think that this will bc a static, figure by any means, because he referred to this Bill as an interim measure. In point of fact, it is correct to say that not only in terms of money is it the highest level of pension but also - not by a big margin - it is in Australia's history the highest level in terms of real purchasing power. These are the facts and they are shown by the figures. I agree, and hope and believe, that this is by no means the top and that we should and will do better. Secondly, the honourable member for Sydney asked whether Australia could afford to pay more. This is the crucial question because this depends upon the degree of productivity of the economy. Let us not try to put the blame on this side or that side or this person or that person. We ail have a stake in productivity in the Austraiian economy and, whether it be some kind of economic malfunctioning, whether it be some kind of unnecessary strike or industrial disruption, or whatever it may be, a thing that strikes at Australian productivity strikes also at the possibility of paying more to pensioners. Some of the things that were said in the debate were not factually quite correct. For example, 1 think it was the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham)  who said that in recent times prices had risen faster than had average earnings. That is completely wrong, I ask for leave to incorporate in Hansard a small table showing the comparison from 1967 to J 970, quarter by quarter. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Rehabilitation clinic teams are at present being established within my Department's regional offices al Newcastle and Townsville. These teams consist of a medical consultant, employed on a sessional basis, and full-lime position's of vocational counsellor and social worker. 
The object of the regional clinic is to provide a degree of decentralisation in order to improve services to eligible handicapped persons living in the region. 
The Newcastle and Townsville clinics are regarded as in the nature  of  pilot projects. While there  are  no firm plans, at this stage, for the establishment  of  further clinic teams in other regional centres, we shall formulate future policy after considering the outcome of these pilot projects. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a  second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to establish a new code of workers' compensation for Commonwealth employees. As honourable members know, a Bill for this purpose, the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill 1970, was introduced by my colleague, the then Treasurer, on 19th March 1970, but has been withdrawn, along with the United States Naval Communication Station (Civilian Employees) Bill 1970 and the Anglo-Australian Telescope Agreement Bill (No. 2) 1970, to make way for this Bill and the 3 subsidiary Bills that I will introduce later. Honourable members will recall that at the conclusion of his second reading speech on the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill 1970 the then Treasurer said that the Government's mind was not closed so far as the Bill was concerned and that the Government stood prepared to consider on their merits suggestions for amendment during its passage. 
Representations about the Bill were received from the Council of Commonwealth Public Service Organisations, the Australian Council of Trade Unions and other sources and suggestions for amendment of the Bill were made by honourable members here and honourable senators in another place during the debates on the Commonwealth Employees Compensation Bill 1970. All these suggestions were carefully considered by a committee of ministers and many of the suggestions have been adopted. In the light of the many amendments that would have been required in the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill 1970 to give effect to the changes decided on by the Government it was thought desirable for that Bill to be withdrawn and for this new Bill to be introduced incorporating the amendments to which the Government had agreed. Collectively the changes which the Government proposes will reflect a considerable improvement in the code of compensation legislation for Commonwealth employees over and above that contained in the Bill that has been withdrawn. 
The Bill provides for new levels of existing monetary benefits. The weekly rate of compensation for an employee without dependants is being increased from the old level of $31.80 to $35 and, if an employee has dependants, that amount will be supplemented by $8.50 for a dependent wife or husband and $5 for each child, in lieu of the existing dependants' allowances of $7.70 and $2.80. I draw the attention of the House to the very great increase for a child from $2.80 a week to the new level of $5 a week. The basic lump sum death benefit, to which other lump sum benefits are related, is being increased from $12,000 to $13,500 and the minimum payment for a dependent child of a deceased employee increased from $280 to $500. The funeral benefit goes up from $120 to $300. By virtue of the amendments that will be effected by Part VIII of this Bill to the existing legislation, that is, the Commonwealth Employees' Compensation Act 1930-1970, these increases in rates will apply from the date on which this Bill receives the royal assent. Some other changes are being made in the existing legislation by that part of the Bill and it might be convenient to mention them here. 
Yes. The provision in the existing Act that requires a reduced weekly rate of compensation to be paid to certain minors is being repealed as also is the special reduction provision currently applicable in some death cases when, before his death, the employee had received a lump sum payment. These changes are being made because these restrictive provisions are not being reenacted by the Bill. At the same time the Third Schedule, which relates to specified injuries, is being repealed and a modified schedule substituted which, in conformity with the table of losses in sub-clause (5) of clause 39 of the Bill, will eliminate the existing distinction between left and right upper limbs for lump sum compensation purposes. The effect of these amendments to the existing legislation is that employees will immediately, under the existing legislation as amended, receive certain of the benefits of the new code of compensation. It will, of course, take some time for the necessary regulations and administrative arrangements to be made before all the provisions of the new code can be brought into effect. 1 turn now to the changes in the previously announced new compensation code that will be effected by this Bill. It now provides for compensation for injury whether the injury results from accident or not The omission of any reference to 'by accident' in relation to an injury has necessitated the inclusion of a provision to exclude liability for intentionally self inflicted injuries. At the same time the expression 'injury' is defined so as to exclude the consideration of any disease cases under the injury provisions of the Bill. Liability in respect of the contraction or the aggravation, acceleration or recurrence of a disease will have to be determined only under the provisions relating to diseases. Under the Bill a disease no longer has to be a disease due to the nature of the employee's employment by the Commonwealth to attract compensation. It will be sufficient if employment by the Commonwealth is a contributing factor to the contraction of a disease or to the aggravation, acceleration or recurrence of a disease, whether or not the disease was contracted or the aggravation, acceleration or recurrence* occurred in the course of the employment. It might also be noted in respect of both injury and disease cases that the death, or a disfigurement, incapacity or disablement of an employee or a loss suffered by an employee, will be deemed to have resulted from an injury to the employee or from a disease contracted by or suffered by an employee if the injury or the disease contributed to the death of the employee or to a disfigurement, incapacity, disablement or loss suffered by him. 
Some new benefits are being introduced. Compensation of $1,350 will be payable for loss of the sense of taste or loss of the sense of smell. Provision is being made for payment of an attendant's allowance of $8.00 per week to an injured employee who requires the constant assistance of an attendant. This allowance, which will be additional to any other compensation for which an employee is eligible, will not be payable, however, during any period when the employee is being maintained as a patient in a hospital or nursing home, or is receiving constant nursing attention and the cost of his accommodation at the hospital or nursing home or of the nursing attention is being borne wholly by the Commonwealth. 
Yes. Payment up to a limit of $150 in any one case will be made in respect of the provision or modification of certain aids, appliances and equipment that are not included as medical treatment but are reasonably necessitated by an injury. In this category would come the provision of access ramps in the home of an employee confined to a wheel chair, safety internal or external hand rails or grips in bathroom, toilet, kitchen or bedroom, alterations of taps, catches, handles, door openings and fittings. Provision will be made for the vocational training of incapacitated employees. I am having distributed to honourable members today copies of a pamphlet setting out some details of the Commonwealth Rehabilitation Service. Honourable members will note - I hope, with pleasure - that the Bill lays particular emphasis on the rehabilitation aspect. The Commissioner is to be empowered to make arrangements with the Director-General of Social Services for the provision of such training in accordance with the principles observed by the Commonwealth Rehabilitation Service, as set out in the pamphlet which has been circulated. 
While an employee is undergoing vocational training he will be eligible for training and living away from home allowances at the same rates and under the same conditions as these allowances are payable to Social Services beneficiaries who undergo such training. These allowances will be paid in addition to amounts of compensation equivalent to the weekly rates of compensation for total or partial incapacity for work, as the case may be. The Bill also provides that the benefits of the Commonwealth Rehabilitation Service, under Part VIII of the Social Services Act, will, so far as they are capable of application, be available to employees undergoing vocational training. These provisions, taken in conjunction with the fact that medical treatment will in future include treatment and maintenance provided or arranged by the Director-General of Social Services through the Commonwealth Rehabilitation Services, will mean that a complete system of medical and physical rehabilitation and vocational training will be available for injured employees of the Commonwealth and Authorities of the Commonwealth. This is an important improvement in the scheme of compensation for those employees and it will, I think, place them in a more favourable position, so far as rehabilitation is concerned, than persons who are covered by the workers' compensation legislation in the States. 
Provision is being made for increases in the monetary benefits that were proposed in respect of some new benefits that would have been introduced under the Bill which has been withdrawn. The latter Bill provided for payment of $2,400 for permanent loss of the capacity to engage in sexual intercourse. Honourable members will remember the part played by the former member for West Sydney,  Mr Minogue.  That Bill also provided up to $600 for severe and permanent facial disfigurement. Under this Bill the amount of $6,750 which is 50 per cent of the highest amount proposed to be paid for a specified loss - that is, the loss of a limb, sense or faculty - will be payable where an injury or disease results in the loss of the genitals or the permanent loss of the capacity to engage in sexual intercourse. Payment of an amount up to $6,750 is being provided for severe and permanent facial disfigurement. 
The Bill still provides for the use of a medical board in relation to claims for compensation in respect of facial disfigurement. However, consistent with the changes that are proposed concerning medical boards generally, there will be equal representation on a medical board for the Commissioner and the employee in facial disfigurement cases. A unanimous opinion of the members of a medical board as to whether or not an employee has suffered severe and permanent facial disfigurement will be conclusive evidence on this point, and if the members of the board are unanimous in the assessment of the amount to be paid, then that amount will be payable and there will be no appeal from the board's assessment regarding the amount. However, if the members of the board do not give a ananimous certificate as to whether an employee has suffered severe and permanent facial disfigurement the responsibility will rest with the Commissioner to determine this question and the Commissioner's decision will be subject to reconsideration or review in another independent tribunal Also, if the members of a board are unanimous in the opinion that an employee has suffered severe and permanent facial disfigurement but they have divergent views about the amount of compensation to be paid, then it will be up to the Commissioner to determine what amount is payable and such a decision will also be subject to reconsideration or review in another independent tribunal. I should perhaps mention here that a somewhat similar procedure will operate where claims for loss of the sense of taste or the sense of smell are involved. In relation to medical boards generally the Bill provides for equal representation on a board for the employee and the Commissioner, and if all the members of the board give a unanimous certificate then, and only then, will a certificate of that board be final and conclusive evidence, for the purposes crf the Act of the matters stated in the certificate. 
The existing Act and the Bill that was introduced into the Parliament last year both provide for a maximum limit to the amount of compensation payable in certain circumstances in respect of any one accident. Under this Bill there will be no statutory maximum. As a corollary of this, in cases where an employee suffers multiple injuries in the one accident, he will be eligible for payment of the aggregate of the amounts specified for a number of individual losses instead of being restricted to receiving only the maximum amount stipulated for a specified injury. 
My memory does not go back to that. It is not in the exist ing Act. May I give an example. I think this will answer the point that the honourable member has in mind. Under the existing Act and the withdrawn Bill the loss of a hand and a foot in the same accident would have attracted lump sum compensation of $12,000, although the sum of the amounts for the individual injuries, if they had been sustained in separate accidents, would have been $15,600, comprising $8,400 for the hand and $7,200 for the foot. Under this Bill, instead of the $12,000, the amount of $17,550 will be payable in respect of the loss of a hand ($9,450) and the loss of a foot ($8,100) sustained in the one accident, by comparison with the amount of $13,500 if the statutory maximum provision had been retained. I think that answers the point the honourable member has in mind. The removal of the statutory maximum will also mean that, by comparison with the existing Act and the withdrawn Bill, there will be no upper limit to compensation where an employee is permanently partially incapacitated for work. While on the matter of partial incapacity payments I should mention that the Bill also provides for overtime, penalty payments and the like to be included in both the pre-injury and post-injury earnings of an employee for the purposes of computing the extent of the partial incapacity of an employee, as reflected in his average loss of earnings. In calculating an employee's average weekly earnings, regard will be had to his earnings over the period of 12 months preceding the injury whenever this is practicable and the amount so calculated would fairly represent the rate per week at which the employee was being remunerated in respect of his employment by the Commonwealth before the injury. 
A number of changes has been made in relation to the system of administration of the Commonwealth employees compensation scheme. The Commissioner, in determining matters or questions, will be required to be guided by equity, good conscience and the substantial merits of the case without regard to technicalities. This requirement is imposed on the Commissioner by the existing Act, but it was not included in the withdrawn Bill. It has now been included in this new Bill that is before the House. The withdrawn Bill contained secrecy provisions and a provision empowering the Commissioner to require a claimant to give information, subject to severe sanctions, in the event of noncompliance by a claimant. Similar provisions are not included in this Bill. The Commissioner will have to maintain a register of delegations in force, the register being open for public inspection and delegates of the Commissioner will be required to make an oath or affirmation before proceeding to exercise the powers delegated. The Commissioner will have to make an annual report to the Minister, as the withdrawn Bill also provided, but now the Minister will be required to table the Commissioner's annual report in the Parliament. Restrictions on the provision of information and documents have been removed. Under the new provisions each party to a determination will be able to obtain equal access to all the relevant information that was before the Commissioner in reaching his decision. 
I think so. I will advise the honourable member later on. The range of documents to be supplied will include reports by medical practitioners and medical referees as well as reports by medical boards. I think that covers what the honourable member has in mind. 
I will advise the honourable member about that. This Bill provides for notice of injury to be served on the Commonwealth rather than upon the Commissioner, as the withdrawn Bill required, and ignorance will be included as an excuse for failure to give notice of injury or to lodge a claim within the prescribed period of 6 months. A dissatisfied claimant will be able to have his claim reconsidered by a Commonwealth employees' compensation tribunal or apply to a prescribed court for a judicial review of the Commissioner's determination. The definition of 'prescribed court' has been amended, firstly, to make the Workers' Compensation Commission of New South Wales the only prescribed court in that State and, secondly, to ensure that in any  external  Territories of the Commonwealth a prescribed court will be constituted by a person with legal qualifications if this is practicable. 
I will give consideration to that. Changes have been made in the provisions concerning costs in proceedings before a compensation tribunal. Under the withdrawn Bill each party was to bear its own costs. Under this Bill, by contrast, while an employee still will never have to meet any part of the Commonwealth's costs, a compensation tribunal will have discretion which will permit a claimant's costs, in whole or in part, to be awarded against the Commonwealth in all cases except those where the claimant institutes the proceedings and is neither wholly nor partly successful. The withdrawn Bill imposed a time limit of 3 years within which a claimant had to commence proceedings for damages in respect of an injury for which compensation had been paid. There is no similar provision in this Bill and thus a Commonwealth employee who has received compensation will be in the same position as other members of the community who sue the Commonwealth, so far as any limitations on actions are concerned. 
Several changes of substance have been made in the provisions covering the situation where an employee or a dependent of a deceased employee has been paid or has an entitlement to compensation and recovers damages, either from the Commonwealth or another party, for the injury or death in respect of which compensation has been paid or is payable. The Bill provides that where damages awarded are reduced on the grounds of the contributory negligence of the employee, the amount of the compensation repayable will be reduced in the same proportion. The existing Act and the withdrawn Bill provide that where damages are recovered from the Commonwealth there is no entitlement to compensation, whereas if damages are recovered from another party, entitlement to compensation remains to the extent, if any, that compensation exceeds the amount of damages received. Under this Bill, an employee who recovers damages from the Commonwealth will be in the same position as a person who recovers damages from a person other than the Commonwealth, that is, there will still be a liability for any compensation entitlement in excess of the damages recovered. 
The Bill contains new provisions that will enable an employee to receive weekly payments of compensation and at the same time to utilise a proportion of his accrued sick leave credit to build up his payment to his ordinary rate of pay. Under the existing Act an employee who chooses to receive sick leave pay is ineligible for weekly payments. The classes of persons in respect of whom dependant's allowance will be payable in incapacity cases has been broadened to correspond with the classes of persons who will be accepted as dependants in death cases. In relation to the latter, the time at which the test of dependency is to be applied is the date of death, with the proviso that a person may qualify as a dependant if it can be shown that but for the incapacity of the employee due to the injur)' that person would have been dependent upon the employee at the date of his death. Under the revised dependency provisions a de facto wife will be accepted as a dependant if she is dependent upon the employee at the date of his death or incapacity and has been living with the employee for 3 years before his death or incapacity. These are just some of the changes and improvements that are being made by this Bill. The contents of the Bill and the relationship between it and the three additional Bills which T will shortly introduce are explained in more detail in the explanatory memorandum that I have arranged to have distributed to honourable members. Honourable members will realise that there are many matters of detail with which ' will not now take up the time of the House. 
I take the compliment, but I do not want the honourable member to think that my predecessor has not contributed substantially towards this very favourable result. I am glad the honourable member regards this as a favourable result, which it is. 
Before I conclude 1 think I should mention several provisions which were in the withdrawn Bill and similar provisions which are included in this Bill. Firstly, the new legislation is to apply or to be applied by regulations to additional classes of persons, not necessarily employees in the normal sense of that word, to whom the existing Act does not apply. These persons include holders of statutory offices, members of Commonwealth authorities, members of committees appointed by the Government and certain classes of volunteers. Examples of these volunteers are - members of the Air Training Corps, the Australian Cadet Corps, the Naval Reserve Cadets and the Australian Sea Cadet Corps; volunteer bushfire fighters in the Australian Capital Territory; volunteers attached to units of the , Civil Defence Organisations in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory; members of the Repatriation volunteer workers groups serving in Repatriation institutions; also persons who, under the control or direction of an officer of the Commonwealth, voluntarily take part in air or sea search and rescue operations conducted by the Department of Civil Aviation or the Department of Shipping and Transport. Provision has been made for determining a rate of pay for a voluntary worker who, when injured, was not in receipt of earnings from other employment. 
The second point [ would make is that employment by the Commonwealth will include certain attendances by an employee at various places that are related directly or indirectly with his employment. That is, the employee will have the protection of the legislation when, for example, he is attending a university, school, etc., either at the request or direction of the Commonwealth or simply with the approval of the Commonwealth; or if he is attending a place for medical examination, to obtain a medical certificate or medical treatment or undergo vocational training. The employee will also be covered when he is in attendance at his place of employment at various times, such as during an ordinary recess in his employment, or when he arrives early for work or is late leaving the employer's premises after work; or at any time, apart from the periods to which I have already referred, when he is not required to engage in his employment, providing his attendance is reasonably incidental to his employment; and, lastly, at any place during a period when he is precluded by the terms of his employment from absenting himself from that place. The fact that cover will be provided in the last two sets of circumstances I have just described will be of particular interest to members of the defence force. They will be covered by the legislation at all times when they are in camp and, though not on duty, are not free to leave the camp, or when they are free to leave camp, if their being in camp is reasonably incidental to their employment in the defence forces. 
In conjunction with the foregoing, the scope of the provisions covering injury while travelling to or from employment has been greatly extended. For employees generally, the interpretation of a journey to or from employment has been extended to include one that would have been completed not more than one hour before commencing work or one commenced not more than one hour after ceasing work. Provision is made for extending this hour of grace in certain circumstances. Cover will also be provided for any journey to or from the place of employment during an ordinary recess in employment, for example a lunch hour, as if the journey were one to or from the employment. Also included are new provisions to cover the special situation of servicemen, employees living in temporary camps provided by their employer and a person travelling to or from a pick-up centre when the Commonwealth was his last employer. The Commissioner will no longer have a non-appealable power in relation to a travel case involving a substantial interruption or deviation during a journey to or from the employment. 
I have dealt with the main provisions of the Bill and. as I mentioned earlier, have arranged the distribution to honourable members of an explanatory memorandum which traces these provisions, more or less clause by clause, through the Bill. I trust this will prove helpful to honourable members. I should also mention to the House that the Government has decided to appoint an interdepartmental committee to examine further certain aspects of schemes for employees' compensation and related payments. [Extension of time granted] Two matters which will be before this committee are, of course, earnings related to compensation and payment of periodical payments in place of a lump sum compensation to a widow in case of death. I am sure the House would agree that the committee should consider these matters. However, we have thought it preferable not to delay this Bill pending the Government's consideration of the results of the deliberations of that interdepartment committee. In conclusion, might I say that I would hope that after honourable members, employees and employee organisations have studied this Bill, they will agree with the Government's view that the Bill represents a major and modern scheme of workers' compensation legislation and that when it comes into operation it will provide a generous and modern scheme of worker's compensation for Commonwealth employees. I trust that honourable members will give this entirely beneficial piece of legislation a speedy passage and I commend the Bill to the House. 
 Some of the matters mentioned in relation to the Conybeare Committee report are matters on which the Government has not a closed mind at all. As I mentioned to the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  they are at present under scrutiny by an inter-departmental committee. I would not anticipate that the deliberations of that committee would be available by the time these sittings end, by which time, I hope, we will have this Bill in operation. Therefore, while I give no commitment at all as to the outcome of those deliberations, which have arisen very largely from the scrutiny of the Conybeare Committee's report, and while I can give no guarantee to the House as to what the position will be, I can give a guarantee that the matter is under consideration and that the Government has not a closed mind on it. I would not anticipate there would be anything to be gained by holding up this Bill while these matters are being determined and I would hope that there would be no attempt thus to hold up the Bill. I have already indicated in my second reading speech that these are major matters to which the Government is addressing its mind. 
In regard to the minor technical matters about which the honourable member for Hindmarsh spoke, such as an injury to a girl's leg and things of that character, certainly I would be prepared to look at them on their merits. But again, I can give no commitment to the honourable member at the present stage, except to say that on these minor matters I would regard myself as having an open mind. I may say that we went through all these matters in fair detail. We examined all the submissions which had been made either in this House or in the Senate, or by the Public Service organisations, the Australian Council of Trade Unions and individuals. I think that we have fairly addressed our minds to the considerations that have been put forward. Let me say- 
 I move: 
That tha Bill be now read  a second time. 
Broadly, the effect of the United States Naval Communication Station (Civilian Employees) Act 1968 is to extend to civilian employees employed by the United States Navy in connection with the station the terms of the Commonwealth Employees Compensation Act as if they were employees of the Commonwealth. It also gives to these employees, or to another person, in the event of an injury or disease causing the death of such an employee, the right to recover damages at common law from the Commonwealth, and again as if the Commonwealth were the employer, in the event of damage arising from injury, disease or death suffered directly as a result of employment with the United States Navy, subject, of course, to the usual requirements concerning negligence being met. 
The purpose of this Bill is, firstly, to make amendments to the United States Naval Communication Station (Civilian Employees) Act 1968, which in Part II of the Bill is referred to as the principal Act. These amendments will be effective as from the date of commencement of the Principal Act. Secondly, the Bill provides, in Part III, consequent upon the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill 1971, for the application of the provisions of that Bill to civilian employees of the Government of the United States of America employed in connection with the station, whether within or outside the territorial limits of Australia. The amendment to section 3 of the principal Act will make clear that persons employed by an instrumentality of the Government of the United States of America, in this instance, the 
Navy Exchange, whom it was always intended should be covered by the Act, are civilian employees, within the restricted meaning that that term has in this context, for purposes of the Act. 
The other amendments to the principal Act will enable the principal Act to be applied to civilian employees who are employed, either within or outside the territorial limits of Australia, by the Government of the United States of America in connection with the station. When the principal Act was being prepared it was not clear whether any civilian employees of the Government of the United States would be employed outside the territorial limits of Australia and the application of the Act was limited accordingly. It has since transpired that some civilian employees proceed outside the territorial limits of Australia on work associated with the operation of the station and this practice is likely to continue. The Bill provides for the application of the Act to be extended accordingly. 
I think it might be appropriate to add a few words about the clauses in Part III of the Bill. Clause 10 deals with the classes of employees to whom the Bill will apply. Clause 11 will apply the provisions of the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill 1971, when enacted, to those employees and provides for the modification of those provisions in their application to those employees. The modifications are set out in the schedule to the  Bin.  Clause 12 establishes the liability of the Commonwealth in actions at common law that might be taken in respect of damage suffered through injury, disease, death or loss of or damage to property, directly associated with employment in connection with the station and in relation to which the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Act 1971 applies. Part III of the Bill will come into effect on the day on which the Commonwealth Employees Compensation Act 1930-1971 is repealed and the new compensation code established by the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill 1971 comes into operation. I commend the Bill to the House. 
 Debate (on motion by  Mr Clyde  Cameron) adjourned. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
Broadly speaking, the effect of the provisions of the Air Accidents (Commonwealth Liability) Act 1930-1970 is to cover situations where an employee of the Commonwealth or an authority of the Commonwealth might have an entitlement under that Act to payment of damages from the Commonwealth or an authority of the Commonwealth and also an entitlement under employees compensation legislation. The purpose of this Bill is to make minor amendments to the Air Accidents (Commonwealth Liability) Act 1963-1970 consequent upon the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill 1971, which I recently introduced into this House. 
The amendments provide, firstly, for reference to the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Act 1971 to be substituted for references to the existing compensation legislation, namely, the Commonwealth Employees Compensation Act, in sections 10, 11 and 15 of the Air Accidents (Commonwealth Liability) Act. Secondly, in relation to sections 10 and 15, which at present contain references to a provision of the Commonwealth Employees Compensation Act that covers the situation where an employee receives compensation and recovers damages - section 17a  -  the amendments will substitute references to the corresponding provisions of the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill 1971, namely, clauses 99 and 100. By clause 2 of the Bill the amendments will be effective from the day on which the Commonwealth Employees Compensation Act 1930-1971 is repealed and the new compensation code established by the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill 1971 comes into operation. I commend also this consequential Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Clyde  Cameron) adjourned. 
 I move: 
That the  Bill  be  now  read a  second  time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to make minor amendments to the Anglo-Australian Telescope Agreement Act 1970 consequent upon the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill 1971. Section 16 of the Anglo-Australian Telescope Agreement Act 1970 extends the application of the existing compensation legislation, the Commonwealth Employees Compensation Act, to Australian members of the AngloAustralia Telescope Board and to employees of the Board. The amendments to section 16 of the Anglo-Australian Telescope Agreement Act 1970 being made by this Bill will enable the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Act 1971 to apply to those persons. By clause 2 of the Bill the amendments will be effective from the day on which the Commonwealth Employees Compensation Act 1930-1971 is repealed and the new compensation code established by the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill 1971 comes into operation. I commend this consequential Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Clyde  Cameron) adjourned. 
I have read the booklet which as I recall arose out of the conference which my Department, in association with the Commonwealth Department of Health, convened on Aboriginal infant mortality some time ago. The question was further discussed only last Friday in Cairns at the meeting of Commonwealth and State Ministers. 
First, let me say that in the Northern Territory there are reasonably accurate statistics on Aboriginal infant mortality. In the States, the statistics are based a great deal on conjecture because the necessary documents do not always contain information as to racial origin. But I think some account should be taken of the fact that the Queensland Aboriginal population on the average has been in contact with what we call civilisation for much longer than the Aboriginal population in the Northern Territory. 
Having said that, let me say that in my view although Aboriginal mortality has come down it is still far too high. What is important, I think, is not just this level, but what can be done to improve it. It was on this kind of aspect that I thought the conference in Cairns might have given us some useful leads. I am hoping, in conjunction with my colleague, the Minister for the Interior, to bring forward some concrete proposals in regard to the Northern Territory. In particular, I am perturbed by the fact that hi that area although infant mortality among Aboriginals in the northern part and in Arnhem Land appears to have been much improved on the position in the Centre- 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As a . result of the recent amendment to the Social Services Act, 77 per cent of age pensioners were paid an additional SOc a week and 2 per cent received a part of that increase. The rate of pension in respect of the remaining 21 per cent of age pensioners was unaffected. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
 Based on statistics of pensions current at 1st 
March 1971, the cost of inceasing age and invalid pensions by 10 cents a week would be $4.9m a year. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The number of countries paying social services to their citizens or former citizens now resident in Australia is not known. The following information in respect of the old-age or retirement pension payable by the countries indicated to persons permanently resident in Australia may however, be useful: 
Canada - 
The old-age security pension (but not the guaranteed income supplement) would be payable to persons residing in Australia who hadlived in Canada for 10 years immediately prior to being granted pension and had lived there for a total of 25 years after the age of 21. It would also be payable to persons in Australia who had lived in Canada for a total of 40 years after reaching age 18. 
The Canada Pension Plan pension would be payable in Australia to persons who are qualified by virtue of contributions made in Canada. 
France, Germany (Federal Republic), Greece, Holland, Italy, Malta, Turkey, United Kingdom, United States of America - 
Pensions of these countries are payable under a social insurance system and would be available to qualified citizens living in Australia. In the case ofFrance and Germany, pensions are not payable in Australia to former citizens who have surrendered their citizenship. 
Sweden - 
The universal pension would be payable to Swedish citizens residing in Australia if registered in Sweden for census purposes in the year they reached 62 years of age and the 5 preceding years. The supplementary social insurance pension would be payable to Swedish citizens in Australia if they had pensionable income for at least  3  years in Sweden and to nonSwedish citizens with pensionable income in Sweden over at least 10 years. 
Austria, Belgium, Finland, Ireland, Norway, Portugal, Spain - 
Pensions of these countries are not payable topersons otherwise eligible if they reside in Australia. 
The question of paying Australian pensions to persons residing outside Australia is a matter of policy currently under review. 
British Consul-General in Hong Kong  (Question No. 3211) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Under the States Grants (Home Care) Act, financial assistance may be granted by the Commonwealth to the States in relation to the provision of Home Care Services and Senior Citizens' Centres, and welfare officers employed in connection with Senior Citizens' Centres. The service ot centre must be approved initially by the State Government, which takes into account the needs of the area concerned and other relevant factors. 
Grants under the Delivered Meals Subsidy Act may be made by the Commonwealth direct to eligible organisations conducting a 'Meals on Wheels' service for aged and invalid persons. These grants are not payable to organisations that are not prepared to deliver meals to the homes of qualified needy persons. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of 10 electors of the Commonwealth  of  Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the United Nations General Assembly 
Resolution 2603 XXIV A (December 1969) declares that the Geneva Protocol of 1925, which Australia has ratified, prohibits the use in international armed conflict of any chemical agents  of  warfare - chemical substances whether gaseous, liquid or solid - employed for their direct toxic effects  on  man, animals  or  plants; 
that the World Health Organisation Report (January 1970) confirms the above definition of chemical agents of warfare; 
that the Australian Government does not accept this definition, but holds that the Geneva Protocol does not prevent the use in war of certain toxic chemical substances in the form of herbicides, defoliants and 'riotcontrol' agents. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray - 
That the Parliament take note of the consensus of international, political, scientific and humanitarian opinion; and 
that Honourable Members urge upon the Government the desirability of revising its interpretation of the Geneva Protocol, and declaring that it regards all chemical substances employed for their toxic effects on man, animals or plants as being included in the prohibitions laid down by that Protocol. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
For the information of honourable members I present a list of the homes subsidised under the Aged Persons Homes Act 1954-1969 as at 31st January 1971. 
May I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of- procedure on this legislation before the debate is resumed on this Bill. I suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, the United States Naval Communication Station (Civilian Employees) Bill, the Air Accidents (Commonwealth; Liability) Bill, the Anglo-Australian Telescope Agreement  Bin  and the Seamen's Compensation  Bill, as  they are associated measures. Separate questions may of course be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the five Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
I thank honourable members, particularly the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  for the remarks they made; but I most not permit the credit for this legislation to be given to myself. I would like to say that the Committee of Ministers and my officers must take the credit. I think this is a good Bill and I am grateful for what the Opposition has said about it. It is true that in some respects provisions in the South Australian Bill are more generous than those in this Bill, but in other re spects, and sometimes in quite significant respects, this Bill is more generous than the South Australian Bill. It may be that when this Bill is looked at objectively it will be seen generally to be about a line ball with the South Australian Bill. I have already said that there are some major matters which will be considered in the future and there is no feeling at this moment that they must inevitably be ruled out. This has not been a rushed Bill. It was put before the Parliament in draft form some time ago. I think this is a good thing. I would like to acknowledge for my part the help I have had not only from members of the Opposition and trade union representatives but from the Commonwealth Public Service and other people in the community. Suggestions have been brought forward and where they have been constructive in the Government's view, they have been accepted. I think all honourable members will agree that because of this process of consultation the Bill is now better than it otherwise would have been. The honourable member for Swan  (Mr Bennett)  spoke of the out-worker. This matter has now been cleared up. 
The  Deputy Chairman (Mr Corbett)The  time allowed for consideration of this Bill in the Committee stage has now expired. The question is, 'That the Bill and amendments circulated by the Government be agreed to and the Bill be reported with amendments'. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill reported with amendments; report adopted. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Personal Care Subsidy is payable under Part III of the Aged Persons Homes Act to religious and approved non-profit organisations which conduct hostel accommodation for the aged in which they provide personal care services for residents needing such services. 
The amount of subsidy payable depends on the number of persons aged 80 years and over, residing in the approved accommodation. 
The current percentage of such persons is: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Local governing bodies as listed have been approved to receive grants since the Aged Persons Homes Act was amended in November 1967. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Based on the number of pensions current at 29th March 1971, the estimated cost of increasing to S3.50 per week the additional pensions paid to civilian widow pensioners in respect of the eldest eligible child would be $2.4m per annum. 
Allowances paid under the Soldiers' Children Education Scheme vary in amount depending on the age of the child, whether the child resides at home or is living away from home and according to the type of education or training being undertaken. As these details are not available in respect of the children of civilian widow pensioners it is not possible lo determine the cost of paying similar allowances in respect of such children. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The following organisations have received urns of money to cover expenses for conferences as listed: 
The answer to the honourable member's questions is as follows: 
to (3) The following information is supplied in relation to questions (1-3). Details of privately owned hostels are not available. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Office of Aboriginal Affairs has made grants to the Federal Council for the Advancement of Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders amounting to $6,318.80 as follows: $2,000.00 - Fares for delegates to annual conference 1969 $1,192.00 - Fares to Executive Committee $2,000.00 - Fares for delegates to annual conference 1970 $1,126.80 - Fares for delegates to annual meeting 1971. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Where a unionis involved in an industrial dispute all its members are parties to the dispute. If a member is unemployed as a result of a strike supported by. his union he is not. qualified for unemployment benefit. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(1). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Please see my answer to Question No. 2828, Hansard 31st March 1971, pages 1280-81. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable (he  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully sheweth - Whereas - 
(he Commonwealth Parliament has acted to remove some inadequacies in the Australian Education system. 
a major inadequacy al present in Australian education is the lack of equal education opportunity for all. 
200,000 students from Universities, Colleges of Advanced Education and other Tertiary Institutions, and their parents suffer severe penalty from inadequacies in the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936-1968. 
Australia cannot afford to hinder the education of these 200,000 Australians. 
Your petitioners request that your honourable House make legal provision for - 
The allowance of personal education expenses as a deduction from income for tax purposes. 
Removal of the present age limit in respect of the deduction for education expenses and the maintenance allowance for students. 
Increase in the amount of deduction allowable for tertiary education expenses. 
Increase in the maintenance allowance for students. 
Exemption of non-bonded scholarships, for part-time students from income tax. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
The House will bo aware that a part of the new code came into operation in May immediately following Royal assent to the Bill. That part of the code related to increased rates of payment. I am pleased to inform the House that His Excellency has recently given approval to the necessary regulations antecedent to bring the remainder of the Bill into operation. It is anticipated that those regulations will be gazetted in time to operate as from 1st September 1971. The House will appreciate that in a complex measure of this character, a certain amount of preliminary work had to be done. The new regulations will enable the Bill to do 4 main things: It will make new classes of people eligible for benefits; it will liberalise the conditions under which benefits may be given - for example, for certain diseases, for attendance at work and for journeys to work, and things of that character. It will introduce some completely new benefits; and it will increase the availability of medical compensation and vocational training. I think that the House will welcome the fact that these regulations will become operative as from 1st September. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the sales tax on all forms of contraceptive devices is 27 per cent. (Sales Tax Exemptions and Classifications Act 1935-1967). Also that there is  a  customs duty of up to 47i per cent on some contraceptive devices. 
And that this is an unfair imposition on the human rights of all people who wish to prevent unwanted pregnancies. And furthermore that this imposition discriminates particularly against people on low incomes. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the sales tax on all forms of contraceptive devices be removed, so as to bring these items into line with other necessities such as food, upon which there is no sales tax. Also that customs duties be removed, and that all contraceptive devices be placed on the national health scheme pharmaceutical benefits list. 
And your petitioners will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I have at no time indicated that such a draft does exist but I have indicated that my Department and I have given consideration to this. The matter has not been accepted by the Government. I am indebted to the honourable member for his suggestion that perhaps a complicated matter such as this might be the subject of a paper to be presented to this House, not in terms of a decision but as a paper setting out the pros and cons of the matter as is sometimes done, as I understand it, in the House of Commons. I believe there it goes under the name of a green paper. 
J am afraid that the honourable member has not read with sufficient attention the Budget Speech which the Treasurer delivered to this House last week. 
Perhaps I am overrating his intelligence. If he had read it carefully and understood it, he would have seen set out in that speech the answers to his first series of questions. With regard to price rises, I remind the House that the latest figures published for the year ended June last indicate that the rise in consumer prices has been a little less than 6 per cent. At the same time the rise in pensions has been about 11 per cent. I hope that the honourable member will be in the House tomorrow when I shall move the second reading of the Social Services Bill and when I will be able to answer in detail the questions that he has raised. If the honourable member will do the Treasurer the honour of looking at his Budget Speech he will see quite clearly stated there that the full increase of $1.25 a week is to go to those who are in receipt of the maximum rate of pension - that is, those whose means as assessed are SIO a week or less. 
There appears to be some contest between the honourable member for Eden-Monaro and the honourable member for Oxley as to who can ask the most complicated and rhetorical question without very much sense behind it. I am afraid I must award the palm to the honourable member for Oxley in this regard. It is not my practice to discuss in the House, or indeed anywhere else, what has happened in Cabinet or Party rooms and I adhere quite strictly to that rule. Honourable members opposite have so long been free from any experience of Cabinet rooms that they would not have any idea as regards the secrecy of those, but I understand that they have some experience of Party rooms where there is a very low standard of secrecy. 
There is no point of substance or sense either,  Sir. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Under the Ministry of Social Security Act 1966 assistance, including rent allowance, may be provided in respect of the dependent wife and children of a striker if hardship exists. This assistance is quite distinct from unemployment benefit payable under the National Insurance Act. 
The Social Services Act provides that a person whose unemployment is a result of his participation in a strike is not qualified to receive unemployment benefit. Where a person is ineligible for unemployment benefit for any reason no unemployment benefit is payable in respect of his wife or children. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It would be necessary to refer to the British Department of Health and Social Security for advice as to whether sickness benefit would be payable in the circumstances mentioned. 
An essential requirement for the payment of sickness benefit under the Social Services Act is that the applicant should have suffered a loss of income as a result of his incapacity. A person who is unemployed as a result of direct participation in a strike, and who becomes ill while on strike, would not satisfy this condition. 
If it were established that such a person was experiencing hardship, payment of a special benefit could be considered. 
As I have indicated to the House, I will be giving consideration to this matter but no decision has been made upon it. 
The honourable member's interest in the affairs of his electorate is not concealed, I think, either from this House or from his electorate. I can give him only half an answer to this question. A decision has been made to establish the office which he requests, but I am unable to give him a time for its establishment. Some time ago my officers, together with officers of the Department of Interior, endeavoured to find suitable premises in the area. At that time they were unable to do so. But since that time, as the honourable member knows, there has been a very well appreciated restriction of Government spending, and under present policy it would not be immediately in prospect to provide the facility for which he is asking. Nevertheless, I can assure him that as soon as practicable the decision in principle to establish an office in Swan Hill will be implemented. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill gives effect to the social service proposals announced in the Budget Speech of the Treasurer. Its main provisions are as follows: 
The standard rate of pension will be increased by $1.25 per week for those on full pension. Some partpensioners will receive part of this increase in accordance with details that I shall give in a moment. The basic new rate will be $17.25 per week. 
The married rate of pension - applicable also to B class widows - will be increased by $1 per week for those on full pension. Some partpensioners will receive part of this increase. The basic new rate will be $15.25 per week, or $30.50 per week for a married couple. 
The wife's allowance, including allowances payable for unemployment and sickness benefits, will increase by $1 per week. 
The adult rate for long-term sickness benefit will increase by $1.25 per week, and the junior rate of 75c per week. 
The rate of child endowment for the third and each subsequent child under 16 years in a family is to be increased by 50c per week. 
The rate of child endowment for each child under 16 years of age in an approved institution is to be increased by 50c per week. 
Children's allowances for age, invalid and widow pensioners and for unemployment and sickness beneficiaries will increase by $2 per week for the first child and by $1 per week for each other child. This will bring the allowance to a uniform $4.50 per week for all these children. 
It is estimated that the pension and allied increases will benefit over 1 million persons, at an annual cost of some $66m. (Quorum formed.) The details are contained in a table which with the concurrence of honourable members T incorporate in Hansard. 

<graphic href="073131197108266_22_0.jpg"></graphic>

The increase in child endowment will cost about $26.5m per year, and will benefit about 1,020,000 children, comprised in about 610,000 families. The total annual cost of the benefits, that is, of pensions and child endowment, included in the present Bill is thus about $92m. 
The new benefits, of course, will only operate from the date of the passage of this Bill, so that the extra expenditure for 1971-72 will not reach the full annual figure. On the other hand, the present Budget will bear the full weight of last year's concessions, which similarly did not Operate for all of last year; and there has also been a growth in the number of recipients of social service benefits, as well as the extra age and invalid pension payday this year. In the upshot, our social services outlay, excluding administrative expenses and capital grants for aged persons homes, etc. will be $l,182m for 1971-72, as against $l,035m for 1970-71, an increase of $147m or 14i per cent. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)I would remind the honourable member for Sydney that there is another standing order which also might apply. 
Let me now deal with some of these matters in greater detail. Standard rate pensioners, whose means as assessed range up to $10 per week and who thus receive full pensions, will get the full increase of $1.25 per week, bringing their rate up to $17.25 per week, exclusive of any supplementary assistance for which they may be eligible. The full increase of $1.25 per week will also be payable to standard rate pensioners qualifying for part of the interim 50c increase given last April, that is, to those with means as assessed between $10 and $11 per week. Standard rate pensioners with means assessed between $11 and $13.50 per week will receive graduated increases calculated in such a way that the pension and means as assessed together will total $27.25 per week plus, of course, any extra allowances for dependent children. 
Similary, married rate pensioners whose means as assessed range up to $8.50 per week, and who thus receive full pensions, will get the full increase of $1 per week, bringing their rate up to $15.25 per week each ($30.50 per week for a married pensioner couple). The full increase of $1 per week will also be payable to married rate pensioners qualifying for any part of the interim 50c increase given last April, that is, to those with means as assessed between $8.50 and $9.50 per week. Married rate pensioners with means as assessed between $9.50 and $11.50 per week will receive graduated increases calculated to ensure that the pension and means as assessed will total $23.75 per week ($47.50 per week for a married couple) plus, of course, any extra allowances for dependent children. 
A somewhat similar position will apply in the case of class B widows who also receive the married rate. Those with means as assessed ranging up to $10 per week or between $10 and $11 per week will receive an increase of $1 per week. Class B widows with means as assessed between $11 and $13 per week will receive graduated increases calculated in such a way that the pension and means as assessed will total $25.25 per week. In this year, when there is a real need to avoid any Budget policy which would add to the tendency of prices to rise, it has been thought desirable to direct the increased rate to those who are wholly or mainly dependent on their pension. 
Sitting suspended from  12.44  to  2.15  p.m. 
It is worth noting that the increases in the base rate are cumulative upon the interim 50c increase given last April. Measured from budget to budget the standard rate pension has been increased by $1.75 a week, and the married rate pension by $1.50 a week. This is by a considerable margin the greatest rise in a similar period in the whole history of Australian pensions. In terms of buying power, the basic pension is now considerably higher than it was at the time of the last Budget, and is in fact higher than it was ever been in the whole history of Australian pensions. With the concurrence of honourable members I incorporate in Hansard the following table which sets out the percentage increase between the 1970 Budget and the 1971 Budget. 

<graphic href="073131197108266_23_1.jpg"></graphic>

It will be seen from that table that there has been a 5.4 per cent increase in the consumer price index; an 11.3 per cent increase in the standard pension rate and a 10.9 per cent increase in the married pension rate. Thus, between last Budget and this, pension rates have risen more than twice as fast as prices - that is to say that pensions as provided in this Budget will have an increased purchasing power. In fact, if in this Budget we had adjusted pensions strictly in accordance with prices, the standard rate pension would now be only $16.34 a week and the married rate pension $14.49 a week. 
Ever since 1949, when Labor lost office, the trend has been to increase pension rates faster than prices, so that the real value of the pension continues to rise. If the old Chifley pension had been adjusted strictly in accordance with prices, it would today be only $10.80 a week. The difference between that figure and the rates now proposed is one measure of the increase in the real value of the pension during this period. It does not, of course, measure the whole of the improvement, since in addition we have brought in supplementary assistance and extra allowances for children, besides introducing new fringe benefits whose average value is of the order of $5 a week. Another provision of the Bill is to increase the wife's allowance which is paid in certain cases to wives of age and invalid pensioners, who are themselves ineligible for the pension, from its present level of $7 a week to $8 a week. This increase will also apply in relation to recipients of unemployment and sickness benefits. 
I now come to the provisions of the Bill which are specifically oriented towards the family and the welfare of children. First let me deal with the child endowment provisions in this Bill. At present child endowment is payable at the rate of 50c a week for the first child under 16 years in a family, $1 a week for the second child, $1.50 for the third child, with cumulative increases of 25c a week for each subsequent child. Endowment in respect of children in institutions is paid at a flat rate of $1.50 a week. Child endowment is now an accepted feature of family income and for some time the Government has been concerned that the larger family has been more adversely affected by wage and price increases than the smaller family with, say, one or two children. Wage increases which have to be spread over a greater number of dependants reduce the relative improvement in the position of the whole family. 
This Government believes that at the present time an effective way of providing real benefits to the larger family is by way of increased child endowment payments. Accordingly, the proposal in the Bill before the House is to increase endowment for the third and each subsequent child in a family by 50c a week. This will mean that the rate of endowment in respect of the third child in a family will become  $2  a week, in respect of the fourth child $2.25 a week and so on, increasing by  25c  for each additional child. With the concurrence of honourable members I incorporate in Hansard the following table which sets out the weekly rates that will be payable for families of different sizes: 
The rate of endowment payable in respect of the 20,000 children under 16 years of age in approved institutions will be increased by 50c to $2 a week. 

 Mr Speaker, the child endowment increases in the Bill will, as I have said, benefit more than one million children, spread in more than 600,000 families. The increases I have just outlined will help ease the financial stress facing many families. It must be remembered also that there are many other benefits and concessions provided by the Commonwealth that tend to offset the cost to parents of maintaining children. The cost to revenue of providing Income tax concessional deductions for children, including deductions in respect of education, exceeds some $250m a year. Through its various scholarship schemes the Commonwealth expends  some  $4Om a year. Assistance is given to families via the National Health Act where the family insurance rates for a family with children - however many children - are pegged at the rate applicable to a married couple without children; special assistance is also provided for handicapped children and children of pensioners, the last a matter which I shall deal with more fully in a moment. All these exemplify the attitude of a responsible government, which is to provide benefits in respect of children in a way which will assist in making them better citizens of tomorrow. 
Now let me come to a most significant part of the Bill - a massive increase in the child's allowance payable to all pensioners - age, invalid and widows, as well as to the recipients of unemployment and sickness benefits. Many social workers have drawn attention to the special hardship suffered by what are called one parent families and by families where the breadwinner is incapacitated. The Government has examined their representations very carefully, and now proposes to increase the payment for the first child, which at present is $2.50 a week, by $2 a week, making it $4.50 a week. The payment for children other than the first, which is at present $3.50 a week, will be increased to the same uniform level of $4.50 a week. 
Since this is a key feature of our social services structure, perhaps the House will allow me to say something of the history of these allowances. The child's allowance was introduced in 1943, and when the Chifley Government went out of office in 1949 it was paid only in respect of the first child of invalid pensioners and age pensioners who were invalids, and only at the rate of 90c a week - equal to about $2.25 a week at today's prices. . Widows under the Chifley Government received no child's allowance at all, except for the 50c a week difference between the class A widow's pension and age and invalid pension rates then current. [Quorum formed.] 
The Chifley 90c, which was payable only to certain invalid pensioners, was increased to $1.15 in 1951, and in 1956 second and subsequent children became eligible for an allowance of $1 a week. This allowance was then extended to the second and subsequent children of widows. 
In 1961 the allowance payable for the first child of invalid pensioners and age pensioners who were invalids was increased to $1.50 a week, as also was the allowance for the second and subsequent children of widows. In 1963 payments for the second and subsequent children of invalid pensioners and age pensioners who were invalids, were increased to $1.50 a week and a payment of $1.50 a week was introduced for the first child of widows. For the first time widows with dependent children received a mother's allowance of $4 a week. Tn 1965 the children of all age pensioners were included, and a 'guardian's allowance' of $4 a week was introduced for single pensioners who had the custody of a child. 
In 1968 the rate for all children was increased to $2.50 a week. In 1969 the rate for the second and subsequent chi. dien was increased to $3.50 a week, and mothers' and guardians' allowances were increased to $6 a week where there was a child under 6 or an invalid child. Now, in this present Budget, it is proposed to increase the rate for the first child from $2.50 a week to $4.50 a week, and the rate for the second and subsequent children from $3.50 a week to the same level of $4.50 a week. 
I have set out this history in some detail, because it shows the development of a plan to provide an entirely new treatment of children in bereaved or deprived circumstances. From the position under the Chifley Government, where a widow received nothing extra for her children beyond her 50c a week, and invalid pensioners got only 90c a week allowance altogether, however many children they had, we have now progressed to the point where all children of pensioners- - age, invalid and widow - are to receive $4.50 a week each; where all widows with dependent children are entitled to a mother's allowance of $4 a week; where some widows are also entitled to an extra mother's allowance of S2 a week; and where some invalid and age pensioners are also entitled to a guardian's allowance of $4 a week or $6 a week. All these childoriented allowances are, of course, additional to the very substantial increases in the real value of the base pensions which have been made since the time of the Chifley regime, and they are additional to the fringe benefits which have been introduced since that time. 
With the concurrence of honourable members I incorporate in Hansard the following table showing the position of a widow with dependent children. 

<graphic href="073131197108266_25_3.jpg"></graphic>

Each budget brought in by our LiberalCountry Party Government has brought some real improvement in social services. It is right and proper that this should be so. The standard of the Australian community has risen, and pension recipients should share in that rise. In recent years, each budget has laid special emphasis upon one aspect, in accordance with an overall plan. This Budget, as I have said, is especially oriented towards the needs of dependent children, particularly towards the needs of children in deprived families, where bereavement or invalidity has struck. I do not think that the House or the country will disapprove of this orientation. 
In accordance with established practice, it is proposed that the pension increases provided under the Bill will operate from and including the paydays following Royal Assent. The increase in endowment will operate in respect of the endowment period commencing immediately after Royal Assent and the increases in unemployment and sickness benefit rates will become payable from the first weekly payment falling due following Royal Assent. The Bill before the House is another practical demonstration of the Government's policy of assisting first those in the greatest need - that is, pensioners with little or no other financial means. In addition, as I have said, our social services programme for this year is child-oriented. 
Recent Liberal-Country Party governments have pioneered several new fields such as aid to handicapped children, subsidies to Meals on Wheels and voluntary bodies; a greater programme of decentralisation of operations; a new approach to rehabilitation services; an expanded programme of aged persons' housing; and  a  complete overhaul of the scheme of Com.mouwealth Employees' Compensation. While we now see all social service payments at a record level, we still have a long way to go. No worthwhile government will ever feel that it has solved all the social welfare problems which confront it, but it will always seek to deal with them as best as it can within available resources. This Government places its greatest emphasis upon improvements in social welfare. Under previous Liberal-Country Party Governments we have made great strides and under future Liberal-Country Party Governments will make even greater advances. I commend the Bill to the House. 
I shall vote against this amendment for the reasons put forward by the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  which I felt were sound reasons. I regret to some extent the terms of the motion, although I feel certain that the House will carry it. A good deal of mis-information has been given in this debate. I remind honourable members of the facts. It has been said during the course of this debate that the system of 2 weeks on, 1 week off, was given a trial and it did not work. Many honourable members have said this, including the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating).  He said that everybody was going away over the short week end, that they were not staying in Canberra, that it was a farce and things of this character. The truth of the matter is this: Owing to the rather extraordinary events of the last session the system was put into operation for only 1 weekend. It was never tried. I do not suppose this kind of disturbance is likely to occur again in the history of this House. It has occurred only once. But because of this disturbance the system was never tried. 
We have heard much imaginary nonsense from some honourable members. The honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  spoke about members being killed in the rush. There have been other statements. This was all imagination, because the system was tried on only 1 weekend during the whole of the session so, in point of fact, it has not been tried properly. Honourable members may feel that they do not want it. They are perfectly entitled to do so. The wishes of honourable members should be respected in this regard. Their wishes will be enforced, because honourable members will vote and naturally the majority vote will carry the day. However they vote will determine the question. But I think we should put the facts straight and forget the kind of fantasy that has been emerging from the lips of  speaker  after  speaker.  They have said that we have tried the system and it has not worked. The facts are, if we look at the record, that it was tried for only 1 weekend. 
To some extent I also regret the proposed change because I believe it will leave less time for the business of the House and of the Senate. Two things which have happened should be brought to the notice of honourable members. The first, which I for one think is good, is that the Senate has established a series of committees. This House is going in for more committee work too. I believe that the time required for the business of the House and committees will tend to increase. Therefore, the step now proposed is a retrograde step because it will cut into the ability of members to carry out properly their real job. I regret the downgrading of the work of this House which has appeared in this debate. I know that honourable members have duties outside this House. They have duties to their constituents and in their constituencies, but the proper and most important work of members is in this House, in the committees and in the party meetings which are ancillary to the work of this House. This is what members are really here for, although I would be the first to agree that there is real work to be done in the constituencies also. 
This House will be less effective if all of us think only of what we are to do in our constituencies, in the Liberal Patty, in the Labor League or whatever it may be. I know that a good member will keep in touch with his constituency. He is here to represent his constituency so he needs to meet his constituents to find out their views. He wants to get from them the feeling which will help him in his vote and his conduct in the House. But let us remember that this is a means to an end. The real business of all honourable members is here in the House, in the committees and in the party meetings which go along with being a parliamentarian. Honourable members perhaps will find that the shortage of time will be worse than they think, because not only is the weight of committee work very properly being increased but also, as honourable members will know and as those on the other side of the House would be the first to admit, because it is the business of the Opposition perhaps to oppose, in the last session and, indeed, in this session, we have had the use of procedural devices to interrupt and obstruct the business of the House in a way that it has never been done before, certainly not in the 20-odd years that I have been a member. In the last 2 or 3 weeks of the last session, which was a crowded session at the end, a great proportion - perhaps 30 per cent or 40 per cent - of the time of the House was taken up by procedural motions, idiotic points of order and things of that character. I note that this kind of practice is appearing again in the ranks of the Opposition. 
 Mr Speaker,  on that point of order: I was pointing out that the hours of sitting must be made adequate to the business of the House. I am pointing out that the House has taken longer than usual to transact its business and I am forecasting that, on the conduct of the Opposition during the last few days, it would seem that this kind of obstruction will continue and therefore the House will need more time to get through ils business. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Statistics relating to the birthplace of age and invalid pensioners are not maintained. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The change in the total weekly amount payable when a child attains the age of 16 years, and endowment continues to be payable in respect of him as a student, is set out in the table below. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Since 1909 when age pensions were introduced it has been the consistent policy of successive Governments that the rates and conditions of eligibility, for pensions and other social service benefits should be uniform throughout Australia. It is not proposed to depart from this established policy. 
and (3) Under the Social Welfare Ordinance 1964-1971, the Director  of  Social Welfare hat authority to provide assistance to persons, including pensioners, who are in need of it. The Ordinance is administered by the Department of the Interior. 
See answer to (1). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Some 165,500 persons, representing 20.6 per cent of all age pensioners and 18,400 persons or 13.9 per cent of all invalid pensioners did not benefit under the legislation which increased the rates of pension as from April 1971. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The following table contains the requested information: 
I can understand the honourable gentleman's curiosity in these matters. It as inordinate in this as in other matters. However, I can assure him that what happened at the Federal Council of the Liberal Party is none of his concern. I can assure him that he has quoted not accurately, but not terribly inaccurately, what I said in Queensland, which is a matter of public record. If he wants to know what I said in this House he might well refresh his memory by having a look at Hansard which in this as in other matters is almost invariably accurate. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The previous answer to question No. 219 of 16th April 1970 is revised as follows: 
No change. 
See item (2) in answer to question 3476. The poverty survey was conducted in June 1966. Since then the situation of - pensioners has been considerably improved - prices have- -risen by 19 per cent but the maximum standard- rate of age pension has been increased- by 33 -per cent and the married rate by 30 per cent. The increases proposed in the Social Services Bill at present before the House, will raise these percentages to 44 and 39 respectively. 
Under the Social Services Bill before the House, it is proposed to increase the maximum standard rate of pension by $1.25 per week and the maximum married rate by $1 per week for each of a pensioner couple. 
It is estimated that to increase the standard rate and the married rate of age, invalid and widows' pensions by weekly amounts of $2 and $1 respectively would cost in the vicinity of $90m per annum. 
No change. 
Since the date of the survey the rates of unemployment and sickness benefits have been increased as follows: 
In addition, the rate of sickness benefit for persons who have been in receipt of payment for 6 consecutive weeks has been increased to the standard rate of invalid pension in the case of adults and married minors and to $10.50 per week for persons aged 16 to 20 years. 
The Social Services Bill before the House includes provisions for increases of $1 per week in the allowance for the dependent spouse of an unemployment or sickness beneficiary, $2 per week for the first child of such beneficiary and SI per week for each subsequent child. Rates of long-term sickness benefit will also be increased in line with the proposed increase in the standard rate of pension. 
It is estimated that, based on the average weekly number of beneficiaries during 1970-71, to increase unemployment benefit and sickness benefit to the standard rate of age and invalid pensions as proposed in the Social Services Bill, would cost in the vicinity of S9m per annum. 
No change. ' 
Provision to increase child endowment for third and subsequent children in families and for children in institutions by 50c per week is contained in the Social Services Bill before the House. 
No change. 
This involves a matter of Government policy. I would point out that the Government has not permitted rising prices to erode the living standards of pensioners since it has ensured that pensions have risen considerably faster than have prices. In the period between the September quarter 1949 and the June quarter 1971 prices rose by some 154 per cent. During the same period the maximum married rate of age and invalid pensions rose by 235 per cent, and the maximum standard rate by 276 per cent, or 324 per .cent if supplementary assistance is included. In addition,- a number, of fringe benefits such as the Pensioner Medical . Service have been introduced in that period, thus further enhancing the real value of the pension. 
Because the future level of average weekly earnings cannot be predicted, it is not possible to estimate the cost of this proposal. However, the cost of increasing age, invalid and widows' pensions by $1 per week would currently be about $55m a year. 
The estimated 'cost of the above proposals as a percentage of estimated expenditure for 1971-72 from (a) the National Welfare Fund and (b) by the Commonwealth Government from the Consolidated Revenue Fund, is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The following list contains the names of aged persons homes and the number of beds in each home for which approval of personal care services has been given under Part III of the Aged Persons Homes Act. 
These are summarised as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
At 30th June 1971, the numbers were as follows: 
(i) 6,315 
7,764 
(1) 3,529 
1,411 
It is estimated that approximately 41,000 children of age and invalid pensioners will benefit from the increased rates announced in the Budget. The cost for a full year is estimated to be $3.2m. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Detailed statistics for the total number of non-pensioner wives of invalid and age pensioners are not maintained. However, the following estimates are provided: 
At 30th June 1971 there were an estimated 18,000 invalid pensioners with nonpensioner wives. A wife's allowance was paid to a total of 15,754 of these Invalid pensioner's wive. 
At 30th June 1971 there were an estimated  1 1,800 age pensioners with non-pensioner wives. A wife's allowance was paid to. a total of 7,244 of these age pensioners' wives. 
Detailed statistics for the total number oi non-pensioner wives of invalid and age pensioners with dependent children are not maintained. However, it is estimated .that at 30th June 1971 approximately 8,000 invalid pensioners* wives and 2,000 age pensioners' wives and 2,000 age. pensioners' wives who were receiving wives' allowances had dependent children. The number of non-pensioner wives of invalid and age pensioners who have dependent children and are not paid a wife's allowance would be negligible. 
The estimated full year cost of the increased rate for wife's allowance proposed in the Budget is St. 3m. Of this amount (0.9m is in respect of invalid pensioners' wives and $0.4m in respect of age pensioners' wives. The estimated full year cost of the increased rate for dependent children proposed in the Budget is $3. 2m. Of this amount $2.5m is in respect of dependent children, of invalid pensioners and $0.7m in respect of dependent children of age pensioners. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 refer the honourable member to my- Second Reading Speech on the States Grants (Deserted Wives) Bill 1968 when I said (Hansard, Volume 58 at page 1060)- 
The purpose of this Bill is to give effect to the Government's announced proposal to assist the States in helping mothers of children who are not eligible for benefit under the Social Services Act Broadly, they are deserted wives during the first six months of desertion, wives during the first six months of the husband's imprisonment, deserted de .facto wives and de facto wives of prisoners and other unmarried mothers.' 
The Social Services Act defines a widow as including a dependent female and a 'dependent female' means a woman who, for not less than 3 years immediately prior to the death of a man, (in this part referred to .as the man in respect of whom she was a dependent female), was wholly or mainly maintained, .by him and, although not legally married te him, lived with him as his wife on a permanent and bona fide domestic basis. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: - The percentage of the Commonwealth's total budget expenditure represented by its expenditure on social services, . as defined in the answer to 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In the Social Services Bill before the House provision is made for an increase in wife's allowance by $]. a week to 18 a week, at a cost of approximately $1.3m a year in respect of the wives of age and invalid pensioners. To increase the rate of wife's allowance by an additional $7.25 a week to raise it to the married rate of pension' of $15.25 proposed in the Social Services Bill, would entail a further gross cost of over $9m a year. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
An estimated 165,000. 
Approximately 17 per cent.- 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. These women are provided for under the States Grants (Deserted Wives) Act. 
Only if the child concerned was in the custody, care and control of a widow when she became a widow for the purposes of the Social Services Act 1947-1971. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Based on funeral benefit statistics for the year 1970-71, the estimated cost of increasing funeral benefits to the amounts specified would be: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is necessary where a person is involved in a business undertaking, when assessing his entitlement to pension, to have regard to the nature of his share of the business as well as the income derived therefrom. However, if a person takes no part in a business but has capital invested in it, the income he derives from his investment would be treated as income from property. 
and (3) The value of property other than the value of the home, furniture and personal effects is taken into account in the assessment of pension entitlement. Income from property is not taken into account. 
See answers to (1), (2) and (3). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Social Services Act provides that in addition to a woman whose husband has died, a widow's pension may be granted to: 
a dependent female on the death of the breadwinner; 
a wife deserted without just cause; 
a woman whose marriage has been dissolved and who has not remarried; 
a woman whose husband is a mental hospital patient; and 
a woman whose husband is imprisoned and has been imprisoned for a period of not less than 6 months. 
The information sought is not readily available for applicants under (b) above. 
Almost 42 per cent of applications for widow's pension from women who claim tobe deserted wives are not approved. 
Statistics of cancellation of widow's pension payable to deserted wives according to reason for cancellation are not maintained. 
In genera] the cost of departmental administration is of the order of 2 per cent of benefits paid. 
Papua: Visit by Select Committee  (Question No.  3932) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As stated in my earlier answer, it was my preliminary conclusion that some 750.000 of the total 800,000 age pensioners were either in their own houses, or were in some form of subsidised accommodation, or were paying reasonable rents. I also stated that upon further analysis, the figure of 750,000 could be found to be higher. 
Subsequent attempts to refine this initial estimate have so far been inconclusive because of lack of relevant data. However 1 have asked my Department to give further examination to this matter. 
 Standing Orders would very properly prevent my saying anything about the substance of this matter. I address myself to the one thing I should, namely the timeliness. It is somewhat extraordinary that in a matter of this character the Opposition should bring forward suddenly and without warning a motion for the suspension of Standing Orders. This throws a lurid light upon the sincerity of the motives of members of the Opposition. In my view they are not concerned with the interests of the pensioners, the age or those who need the help of social services. They are concerned only with political advantage. Indeed, the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  has made this abundantly clear by his attitude in the House and indeed on television, where he could scarcely keep out of his voice a gloating satisfaction ;n trying to score a cheap political point. 
As I said, I will not address myself - nor am I allowed to under Standing Orders - to the substance of the matter before us. I only say that to have brought this matter forward in this way argues that the Opposition is not concerned really with doing anything. It is no concerned with any result; it is concerned only with scoring, if it can, a cheap political advantage. I do not think that the House should demean itself by making itself party to trickery of this nature. If we have an Opposition which is not sincere in this matter but which is trying to use the pensioners and the aged for its own purposes, we can well imagine the kind of disruption which it would hope to inject into any committee established in this way. As I said, I will not address myself to the substance of this matter. 1 address myself only to the timeliness and I protest at the impropriety of bringing this matter forward in this manner. I move: 
That the question be now put. 
Question put: 
That the question be now put. 
 Mr Speaker,  I have listened with interest to the whole of this debate and 1 want to thank those honourable members of this side of the House who have participated in it. We have had many constructive speeches, not least from the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns),  and also from the honourable members for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer),  Holt  (Mr Reid).  Hume  (Mr Pettitt),  Mitchell  (Mr Irwin),  Paterson  (Mr O'Keeffe)  and Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron).  But I would thank nol only honourable members from this side of the House but also members from the other side of the House. I listened attentively to what they had to say and in particular there were points made by the honourable members for Perth  (Mr Berinson),  Barton  (Mr Reynolds)  and Bendigo  (Mr Kennedy)  which I will certainly have a look at. I thought that they were constructively approaching some of the real social service problems. 1 was puzzled a little al some of the errors which were made by Opposition members. I do not refer to the one made by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  who is the shadow Minister for Social Services because he himself very generously acknowledged his error. 
But I was a little puzzled by what the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  said. He has been in this House longer. I think, than most of us. He mentioned what had happened in regard to the Joint Committee on Social Security. He left the impression that that Committee had operated until 1949 and had gone out of existence with the change of government. I looked al the record and I found that this is nol true. That Committee started to disintigrate as from 1943  -  according to  Mr Kewley  in his book - and it did nol meet as a combined committee after 1946. I will not go into the questions of why this was and I will not try to allocate the blame for this to one side of the House or the other. My recollection of it is that the members of the then Opposition, who are now the members on this side of the House, found it impossible to go on with the members of the then Government who are now in Opposition. But I do draw from it the moral that there is a difficulty in the operation of these so-called combined committees in this sphere. I think it is relevant that I should mention this in view of the abortive motion for the suspension of Standing Orders which was moved by the honourable member for Oxley who apparently does nol grasp the historical background of this matter. 
I was also very interested in the egregious error of the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Cope).  I will not weary the House by quoting figures but I think I should perhaps take his error as an example of the fallacious figures that have been brought forward by members of the Opposition ad nauseam in the course of this debate. The honourable member for Sydney said that our Budget expenditure is now 74 times what it was under the Chifley Government, so of course the pension - which was then $4.25  -  should also be multiplied by 7i. This was his argument and he brought it forward. He had forgotten apparently that under the Chifley Government there were 403,000 pensioners. Today there are 942,000 and if we take this into consideration and apply the reasoning that he applied - I do not justify it; I only say it is his reasoning - we would come up with the result that the pension would now be a little under $13.50. That is his reasoning although, of course, the basic pension rate is now $17.25. I simply give this as one example of the incomprehension on the part of the Opposition of the real nature of the figures concerned. 
Much has been said about the rates of pension. There has been a continuous improvement carried on by this Budget in the real value of the pension. In the last 12 months prices have risen by 54 per cent or thereabouts and the pension has risen by about 1 1 per cent - nearly twice as much - and this does measure an improvement in the real value of the pension. But let me agree with the contention brought forward by several members of the Opposition that we should expect this kind of rise because the standards of the Australian people have risen continuously. I agree with this and I will agree that as standards continue to rise so our sights should continue to rise and what would have been considered a satisfactory pension at one time will be inadequate for the future when the general level of the standard of living of the community has risen. But at least let the Opposition realise that this gives the lie to the propaganda which it has been using continuously in this House since I have been here by saying that the standard of living of the worker was being depressed. Of course the standard of living of the worker is rising. We hope it will rise further. This is a process which we should all be glad to see. I do not necessarily disagree with the contention that has been voiced from both sides of the House during this debate that there will be some merit in tying the pension to some external index. The Government has not decided to do this. It has not rejected the idea without commitment. It is still under study. But I am wondering whether the Opposition has appropriately considered what index it should be tied to. I would agree that it should not be tied to the consumer price index because by so doing we would anchor the real pension at a level and. as I have said, I believe the real level of the pension should continue to rise. 
The Opposition has contended that the pension should be anchored to average earnings. This, I think, is equally fallacious. Average earnings are very volatile and, as it happens, they have risen very much faster in recent years than the average incomes of the Australian community. The index that we will be looking for is not one which is tied to the favoured section of the community - the wage earners - but takes account of the less favoured sections of the community such as the entrepreneurs, the rural producers, the farmers and sections of that nature. One should look for a fair average. When I looked at these figures I found empirically 2 things. Firstly I found, looking over the last 20 years as a matter of fact, that the average minimum wage has risen by about the same rate  as  average 
Australian incomes. There have been little variations one way or the other from year to year but the trend lines are almost the same. When I looked further at the rate of the standard rate of pension I found that its trend line was almost the same - a little bit above the line sometimes, a little bit below sometimes but never far from it and going always in the same direction. I am wondering whether we might not profitably recognise de jure what we have in point of fact recognised de facto. It would not make very much difference and it might give more satisfaction. 
I am not saying for one moment that this is a commitment. Honourable members have said during the course of this debate that it might be well if we mulled over these things a little bit before making a decision. I put this suggestion for what it is worth, but as I said, it is not a decision. However, it would not make very much difference in point of fact if we tied these 2 things together. 
Of course, there are other considerations. I think it was the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Webb)  - and I hope I am referring correctly to the honourable member in this case - who said: 'Look, we did not have washing machines and television sets years ago but they are now necessities of life'. Well, this may be so. But children have always been a necessity of life, and this is something of which this Government has continuously taken account. I do not make any apology for the fact that the Bill now before us is child oriented. 
The honourable member said: 'The first time in 22 years'. This is a very good interjection. It enables me to remind the House that in Chifley's time virtually no allowance was made for children at all. The children of widows received nothing extra at all. Also, there was only a meagre allowance for the first child of age and invalid pensioners and none for the others; and then an allowance was given only when the age pensioner was an invalid. We have changed this. We have given an allowance of $4.50 for every child in this category. Furthermore, we have put on for the first child in the shape of a mother's allowance an extra pension of S4 if the child is over 6 years of age and $6 if there is a child under 6 years of age. If we look at the family endowment and mothers allowance together, for the first child there is an extra payment of $9 and if there is more than one child it is about $7 per child. This is an extreme improvement over what Chifley gave. We have had some cognisance of family responsibilities and this is a measure of the improvement which we have made. We have tried to look at this in humane terms and not in the way that the Labor Party looks at it - purely in terms of vote getting. The Labor Party has said that children have not got votes. We know that children do not have votes but we do think in terms of the children. I hope that the honourable member is now thoroughly ashamed of the interjection which he made. 
It is very easy for the Opposition to talk in millions and hope that the millions will come. I think the Minister for Housing mentioned the way in which the Labor Party was tied to resolutions of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. I heard the honourable member for Barton endorse the proposition that the basic pension should be one-quarter of average male earnings which are now of the order of $93 a week. This would mean an additional expenditure of something between $350m and $400m a year. This is the kind of irresponsibility that comes from people who have not thought about what they are saying. When the Minister for Housing mentioned this and quoted quite correctly the figure there were howls of incredulity from members of the Opposition. They had not realised what they were saying. In addition to this, I think, the ACTU brought forward a social services programme which would cost in excess of another $ 1,000m. I say these things because it is very easy to hold out carrots for donkeys; it is very easy for members of the Opposition to say: 'Look, we are going to give you this, that and the other' without trying to reckon up the costs. 
We have talked a great deal during the course of this debate about poverty. It has been correctly quoted that Professor Henderson, who was the author of what is known as the 'Poverty Line' has gone on record in writing quite recently as saying that poverty in Australia was less practically than any other country in the world. 
So it should be and I hope that it will be. I hope that we will continue with this good record. But let the members of the Opposition who have been crying out how bad our record is in Australia compared with other countries remember that the expert whom they called in as evidence said exactly the opposite to what they are saying. During the last 20 years we have had in Australia the highest record of employment that any country in the free world has ever had over a similar period. This is one of the basic reasons why our expenditure on social services is not as high as that of other countries. It is not the only reason but it is one of the basic reasons. Our expenditure per head of population on smallpox is very much less than that of India, but does that mean that we are not doing enough in Australia about smallpox? The answer is no, because we have not got smallpox any more than we have heavy unemployment, and let that be remembered by honourable members opposite when they try to indulge in these fallacious comparisons. 
During the course of this debate I felt that honourable members opposite were indulging more or less in their routine performance. They pretend to be interested, but during most of this debate there have been only 3 or 4 members on the Opposition benches. They have put up a spokesman to talk the gramophone kind of thing which they themselves talk in the hope of getting votes. But they themselves do not believe it; they were not here to support their spokesman. My time has nearly expired. There arc many other things that I should like to have said. The Government is moving forward on this question. It has an overall programme, which is evidenced in the kind of thing that we have been doing over the last 20 years, which has brought about improvements, some of which I have been able to describe. But do not let the House think that we have come to the end of the road. We have not done so, and we will not be satisfied. There are plenty of things ahead of us. 
Honourable members opposite have quoted ad nauseam a statement made in this House a few months ago by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon).  That statement was made in a context which has changed in 2 important respects. One is the failure of overseas prices for our primary and other exports. The other is the inordinate inflationary pressures which have been generated very largely under the encouragement of the Opposition. These things have changed the picture to some extent. They have meant a deferment, but only a deferment of the kind of thing that the Prime Minister presaged and expressed so admirably in the speech he made in this House, which honourable members opposite have quoted and which honourable members on this side of the House will be quoting as time goes on and as the Government's policy unfolds. 
 I had not intended to intervene in the debate on the motion for the adjournment of the House, but I think I should set the record straight in one important particular. A few moments ago the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Cope)  stated that no member of the Australian Labor Party supported Castro in Cuba. I have no doubt that when he said this he believed his statement to be true. I am not in any sense casting doubts on his veracity. Nevertheless, the statement is, to my personal knowledge, untrue. At the time of the Cuban disturbances I participated in a debate on television with the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  who was then the honourable member for Yarra. He gave that support. A few moments ago the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  indicated that he was in support of Castro. 
I am quite happy to accept the honourable member's word. He said that he withdrew none of the support that he had given to Castro. Those are his words. I accept them for what they are. I want to make it quite clear that I believe that the honourable member for Sydney was speaking what he thought was the truth. Unfortunately it was untrue because certain members of the Opposition - not all - have given and do give support to Castro in Cuba. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The cost of processing claims for unemployment benefit is not available as a separate figure. 
If the acceptance of claims for unemployment benefit was automatic, that is without verification of any aspect of the information provided in the claim, the cost of administering the scheme would undoubtedly be lowered but the resultant additional amount paid in benefit in excess of entitlement could more than offset any administrative savings. In addition, the administrative cost of recovering benefit, later discovered to be paid in excess of entitlement, could amount to more than the savings made. 
The procedures for processing unemployment, sickness and special benefit claims are being reviewed. The aim of the review is to seek administrative economies while improving the present standard of service to claimants and ensuring that the existing protection against improper expenditure of public moneys is not weakened. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A preliminary estimate of the order  of additional  annual cost is: 
$30m (p.a.) for eligible persons 80 years and over 
$40m (p.a.) for eligible persons 79 years and over 
$45m (p.a.) for eligible persons 78 years and over 
$55m (p.a.) for eligible persons 77 years and over (e)$65m (p.a.) for eligible persons 76 years and over 
$75m (p.a.) foreligible persons 75 years and over 
$90m (p.a.) for eligible persons 74 years and over 
$105m (p.a.) for eligible persons 73 years and over 
$120m (p.a.) for eligible persons 72 years and over 
$140m (p.a.) for eligible persons 71 years and over 
$155m (p.a.) for eligible persons 70 years and over 
$175m (p.a.) for eligible persons 69 years and over 
$200m (p.a.) for eligible persons 68 years and over 
$230m (p.a. for eligible persons 67 years and over 
$265m (p.a.) for eligible persons 66 years and over 
$305m (p.a.) for eligible persons 65 years and over 
The preliminary estimates shown above are based on the assumption that all persons eligible by residence and age would claim a pension if the means test were abolished. They represent the additional cost over and above the liability which would exist for current pensions if paid at the rates in the Social Services Bill before the House. 
Sea-carriage of Goods  (Question No.  3908) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
On the basis of the arbitrary definition of poverty adopted for the survey, the book indicated that 14.3 per cent of aged persons in Melbourne in 1966 had an income below the poverty line. It also showed that after taking into consideration the accommodation costs of the persons concerned, their assets and the family help they received, only one in fifty was in poverty and in need. 
Subsequent to the publication of the book, People in Poverty', Professor Henderson expressed the view that the incidence of poverty in Australia, as determined from the survey of poverty in Melbourne, is among the lowest in the world. 
For the purposes of the survey, which was carried out in the June Quarter 1966, the poverty line for a standard family comprising husband, wife and two dependent children was arbitrarily set at $33 per week, that being equivalent to the then Victorian basic wage of $30.70 per week plus child endowment for two children plus a loading of 80 cents. Professor Henderson has updated this poverty line by calculating the percentage relationship which it bore to average weekly earnings in the June Quarter 1966 and applying that percentage to the current figure of average weekly earnings. The Bureau of Census and Statistics has issued a revised series of average weekly earnings which, in respect of each State, operates from the quarter ended September 1966. A comparable figure for Victoria for the June Quarter 1966 has been estimated by the Bureau as $61.60 a week. The updated poverty line for a standard family as calculated from Victorian average weekly earnings for the June Quarter 1971, would accordingly be $49.18. However, if the June 1966 base is updated according to increases in the Consumer Price Index for Melbourne to June 1971, the poverty line for the standard family would be $38.63. 
No. 
Increases in pensions are proposed in the Social Services Bill (No. 2) 1971. 
The estimated cost of increasing age, invalid and widow's pensions by $3 per week in respect for standard rate pensioners and $1.50 per week for married rate pensioners would be in the vicinity of $135m per annum. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The matter is still under consideration. 
Overseas Investment in Australia (Question  No. 3477) 
I am aware of these problems because some representatives of the homes saw me quite recently. I am unable to give the honourable member information about the methods of meeting these problems because they lie mainly within the domain of my colleague the Minister for Health. I am at present in the process of discussing this matter with him and I shall discuss it further. 
 I must thank the honourable member for Forrest  (Mr Kirwan),  for his kind references to me. I hope that there was some sympathy in his voice when he referred, mistakenly I trust, to my tenuous hold on office. I shall do my best to endeavour to disappoint him. The honourable member referred to the fact that not everything that the Government would have liked to do is in this Budget. But he did not refer to the facts which very properly have limited the ability of the Government to get into this Budget the things which it would have liked done. Those limits come from the sense of responsibility which informs every action of this Government and which contrasts so notably with the irresponsible proposals brought forward by the Opposition. 
Nobody could deny that the honourable member for Forrest was high-minded.  His  sentiments are impeccable. But the tragic thing is that he himself, unknowingly perhaps, is associated with a Party the impact of whose policies must make it impossible to do those things which he would desire. At question time today, the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  pointed out the different kinds of forces which could lie behind an inflationary situation. He distinguishes between demand inflation and wage inflation. These are, of course, related although the relationship is not simple. I think that we perhaps might have a look at the first principles concerned. In any economic system, demand must be limited to the goods available. If there is an effective demand over the short term for more than the available goods the system must react. In a slave system like the totalitarian system the reaction shows itself in chaos, fearful repression and deprivation. This, of course, is the history of Soviet Russia with its ferocious discipline. In a democratic system the reaction is milder but still unpleasant. It goes by the name of inflation. The system equates demand to available goods by raising prices. This is something which we do not want to happen but it is at any rate better than the kind of ferocious discipline which is the only' alternative when demand outruns supply. 
For Australia and for this Budget the limiting factor on progress is the need to control inflation and, of course, inflation involves a lack of balance between supply and demand. We can meet it from one side of the equation or the other, that is, by reducing demand or by raising production. As honourable members will know,the relationship I have spoken of is not a simple one. It is complicated by the variations in propensity to save and the ways in which stored ability for demand can come through fluctuations in the amount of credit available, the decision of depositors to withdraw money from the bank or to put money into the bank, and many other related factors. The matter is not simple but in general it could be said that demand is a function of incomes. I say this subject to the qualifications I have made. 
The overwhelming component of demand is wages. However, there is the other side to inflation - the side of which the Prime Minister spoke earlier today  during question time. There is also wage inflation which can send prices up even though excess demand may not be involved in the process. In the old days classical economists thought that money wages would not tend to rise in times of slack demand and that an excess demand was necessary in order to push up money wages. This was a simple assumption which is certainly untrue under present arrangements. Let us have a look at the things on the cost side which send prices up and overwhelmingly they are wages. Behind this process, as I have previously said, are the 2 engines - the big engine and the small one. The small one is the tendency of companies to try to maximise their profits. The big one is the tendency of wage earners to enforce wage demands faster than the increase in productivity. 
I think it is worth while, for the House to look at the comparative size of these 2 engines. The wages and salaries paid in Australia total a little more than $ 18,000m a year. Company profits are only one-sixth of that amount - $3,000m. Almost half of those company profits is paid in taxation so that company profits very largely support social services. More than a quarter of those profits go into reserves where they build up the capital goods on which increased productivity in the future must depend. When one looks at these 2 engines one can see that overwhelmingly the one which pushes up prices and costs is wages. 
Now let us have a look at this matter. I ask the House to consider the position from the 1970 June quarter to the 1971 June quarter. During that time average weekly earnings rose by about 13 per cent. They are now $90 a week. In the same time prices rose by only a little less than  5i  per cent. Company profits remained static; indeed in that 12 month period they receded a little. Therefore we can see in point of fact - this is quite clear from the figures - that wages are leading prices and it is because of the inordinate increase in wages that prices are going up as fast and as far as they have been. It is because of this that the Government has to be wary of adding to the demand side. 
It is the tendency of wages to rise so inordinately which is hampering the desire of the Government to increase such things as social service benefits. I have heard members on the opposition side say 'Look, if wages are controlled by . the Arbitration Court why should prices not be thus controlled?' As I have already pointed out, wages are the overwhelming components of costs; profits mean very little in terms of costs, and this is on the. figures. But there is a complete logical fallacy behind the argument of the Opposition in this particular case. Members on the Opposition side say that wages are controlled and therefore we should let prices be similarly controlled. But the fact is that wages are nol controlled. The Arbitration Court does not set a maximum wage; it sets a minimum wage. There is nothing to prevent, neither should there be anything to prevent, the payment of a wage over and above the declared minimum wage or the declared wage with its margin for any particular calling. These over-award payments are made and the very fact that they are made shows conclusively that there is no control of wages. There is no control as to how high wages can go. There is a control as to how low they can go, and this is set by awards. It is quite common now for over-award payments to be substantial. 
Yet nobody is suggesting that there should be minimum prices. When you talk about controlling prices you are not thinking of minimum prices. Indeed the Government has taken steps to reduce the capacity to declare minimum prices by outlawing such things as resale price maintenance. When we talk of prices control we mean exactly the opposite to the sense in which we use the words in regard to wages control because we are talking about maximum prices, not the minimum ones. This confusion between maximum and minimum seems to be at the root of a good deal of the confused thinking on this matter by members on the Opposition side. But this is really not the whole story or even the most important part of the story. Let us think of the production side. If productivity can be increased, money wages can be increased without increasing prices but unfortunately, in the community, there has been organised sabotage of production and this is one of the most important things that must be considered. , 
The machinery of trade unionism^ which has had its. good features and has played its part, is now being manipulated and abused in a way which has never been seen before, even in the times after the Second World War when a Labor government was last in power. We now have the technique of the rolling strike - a strike which is deliberately meant to disorganise production. One section in a factory will go on strike on Monday and Tuesday and the next section on Wednesday and Thursday; the trains in Sydney will stop for half a day; the concrete mixers will go out one week and the builders labourers will go out the next. This is being run to an organised plan in order to sabotage production. I believe it is being run by people who have a vested interest in bringing the Australian economy to its knees. It is not being done in order to improve the conditions of workers. Indeed, the effect of the process is to worsen the workers' conditions, because every time production is reduced the standard of living of all Australians is reduced. Every time the construction of buildings is prevented, the housing shortage increases. Have the people who want houses received any benefit from the present building strike? Of course not. Did the people in Sydney receive any benefit from the Metropolitan Water, Sewerage and Drainage Board strike? Of course not. These strikes were deliberate. They were strikes against the workers, with the workers being manipulated by a number of people who have no good intentions either towards the workers or towards Australia. 
The rolling strike is a political strike. I remember the words of the infamous Ernie Thornton who, by ballot rigging, long preserved his position in the Federated Ironworkers Association of Australia. He said: We made strikes our business'. They were the words of an avowed Communist who gained control of a union and used it in order to bring down production. The strikes were not made in order to improve the standard of living of workers. That is not why they made strikes their business. They made it their business in order to bring Australia down. It is only recently that this technique has received its perverted escalation in the technique of the rolling strike. It has been elaborated and is now being made the instrument of these people who are working against the workers and against Australia. They are using the strength of the workers to destroy the workers. It is a pathetic thing that in this situation the Opposition finds itself on the side of disorganisation and indiscipline. 
It is not only a shocking thing to say; the shocking thing is that it is true. On no occasion has the Opposition come out strongly against this kind of thing because unfortunately - I know that no member of the Opposition likes to hear this - the Opposition is dependant upon the trade union movement and the left wing in the trade union movement is so considerable that members of the Opposition dare not say what they think. I ask members of the Opposition to consider the words spoken by their Leader quite recently. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  said that the time for confrontation is ended. What could this mean? It must mean that confrontation should be superseded by arbitration - by negotiation. This is right. But, if this is so, both sides must agree to accept the arbitrator's decision. If there is not to be confrontation, there must be law. But what has been happening in the last 3 or 4 weeks when militant factions in the unions have brought on their confrontations in the building industry, in the Metropolitan Water, Sewerage and Drainage Board - which is a government instrumentality and not something which could be accused of making profits - and in the New South Wales railways a couple of days ago? What happened when these confrontations were brought on by the people, some of whom, at least, support the Leader of the Opposition? Did we hear anything from him? We did not hear a word. If he had been an honest man he would have said to his own people: 'The time for confrontation is past; you must go to the negotiating table*. But we did not hear a word from him because, whether well intentioned or not, we havehere a frightened man who does not dare stand up to the forces which he himself has helped to call into being. These forces are not aimed at the prosperity of the workers or at the progress of Australia. They are, to some degree although not entirely, being directed by people whose aim is to destroy both. 
 Let me assure the honourable members for Sydney  (Mr Cope)  and Hunter  (Mr James)  that I have listened very carefully to what they have said on the matter of social services and I shall give their remarks serious consideration. I really rose tonight to put the record straight because I feel that the honourable members for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  and Reid  (Mr Uren)  had seriously misrepresented their colleague, the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster).  Both of those honourable gentlemen said that the honourable member for Sturt had done nothing more than protest against the secrecy. The Hansard record shows that that is not true. I draw to the attention of honourable members page 1085 of Hansard of 9th September, where the honourable member for Sturt is reported to have said: 
A  Mr Klass  has gone on record on that programme and has spelt out in quite clear terms what we on this side of the House have suspected because of what we know and because of what we have picked up in certain American journals, that is, the existence in this country of bases of a type that we should not have here. 
That statement goes far beyond the view that the honourable member for Riverina and the honourable member for Reid have put in this House tonight. I will not quote at greater length from the speech of the honourable member for Sturt. The passage I have quoted shows and the rest of his speech confirms that he did not protest simply against the secrecy; he protested against the bases. 
I am indeed indebted to the honourable member for Wills who a moment ago in this chamber openly took the same line. Let me correct the honourable member for Reid and the honourable member for Riverina. 1 will rot accuse them of trying to cover up for the honourable member for Sturt. Perhaps he, like the honourable member for Wills, would say that he does not need to cover up and knew what he was saying. However, it is important not to allow any misrepresentation of a man in this House, even by his colleagues. I know nothing about the Pine Gap base except what I have read in the Press. I have read the book and the statements of  Mr Klass  and on that basis - and that is the only basis for the remarks of honourable members of the Opposition - let us try to analyse the position. 

 Mr Klass has said that the Pine Gap base is used to get information about a possible sneak attack by the Soviet Union upon the United States of America, or indeed, upon us - a sneak attack from anywhere. This then is a base, if  Mr Klass  is right, to keep the peace and not to make war. If there is one thing more than another which is likely to lead to war it is the belief by the Soviet Union that it could launch a sneak attack and get away with it. The one purpose of this base, if one accepts what  Mr Klass  has sard, is to prevent a sneak attack by the Soviet Union on one of us. It is a base to keep the peace and not a base for aggression, if  Mr Klass  is right. 
Since the only information that honourable members of the Opposition had was what  Mr Klass  had said, they are coming out openly in favour of aggression by the Soviet Union. They want to help the Soviet Union to perpetrate aggression. The only purpose of the base as set out by  Mr Klass  is to prevent the Soviet Union from launching a sneak attack upon us or upon the United States. I put it clearly that honourable members opposite have not considered the facts. They have spoken at random. In point of fact, whether they know it or not, they have tried to encourage the Soviet Union in aggression. This is what they have done. It is clear on the record although they may not have understood what they were doing. I think that the country should realise that the judgment of members of the Opposition - I will not say they are knaves - is so fallacious as to show that they are dangerous people ever to have power in this country. 
Having said that, let me advert to another matter which is distinct from it but somewhat connected with it. 1 refer to an occurrence in this House last Thursday night, 9th September. It will be remembered that the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Cope)  said that no Labor man in this House had supported the Cuban revolution. When I pointed out that this was not, in point of fact, correct, he made a personal explanation. I should like to quote that personal explanation, which appears on page 1094 of Hansard. The honourable member for Sydney said: 
In the first place, when I rose lo order while the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  was speaking I did not say but I did mean to say in this House'. It was a Party decision in regard to this matter. No member of the Opposition spoke in this House in support of Castro. If he had, he would have been dealt with by the Party, lt was a decision of the Party. 
Here is a clear admission that there was a division in the ranks of the Opposition on this matter. Some supported Castro and some did not and, again, that stands on the record. But what happened in caucus? A decision was made to cover up. Members of the Opposition were not permitted to express their views in this House although they could do so outside the House. There was a caucus decision to conceal the existence of a real left wing policy in the Labor Party. This is the kind of thing that is happening and it is something of which the country should be wary. In the Labor Party there are forces which are very real but which can be concealed by a caucus decision. The honourable member for Sydney has revealed a most serious matter - the way in which a caucus decision can be used to cover up the real motives, the real sentiments and the real leanings of left wing members of the Opposition. I think that the House and the country should take note of what the honourable member for Sydney has said and just what that implies. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Darling) (11.43)- I shall try not to keep the House too long, but 1 want to support the statements which have been by the honourable members for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  and Mallee  (Mr 
Turnbull) regarding the seriousness of the locust plague. I thank the honourable member for Riverina for mentioning my electorate. However, there are a few things that the House should know about the seriousness of this plague. It would be true to say that the main hatching is probably in the Riverina district but I want it to be known that there are similar hatchings in my electorate. The honourable member for Mallee seems to think that the greenest belt in Australia is along the River Murray. I can assure the House that at present the area along the Darling River from Wentworth to Bourke is the greenest part of Australia. Some time ago, there was a large bushfire in my electorate and a call was made on the Australian community for some support. Of course, the bushfire had almost burnt out before people outside the immediate area came to the assistance of this area. I hope that assistance will not be lacking on this occasion in connection with the locust plague. At this time we do not expect the Army to come into the electorate because I am told that, to a large degree, the people there can contain the situation if they receive some financial support from the Government. 
Honourable members must remember that a lot of these people have gone through a very severe drought. They wanted their area to be declared a drought area but, unfortunately, the New South Wales Government delayed for so long that they had to put their stock on agist ment. They received no support from the Government which would enable them to pay for the transport of their stock. They brought it back under the same conditions because the Government said that the stock was not there when the area was declared a drought area. I hope that a similar situation will not apply in relation to this locust plague. If the plague moves into that area the situation will be serious enough but the plague will go a lot further into Australia than many people think it will because this area is now the greenest part of Australia. 
Not very long ago there was a flood through the Paroo River and the Wilcannia district. There is still a lot of water there but as it recedes the herbage is coming up. The electorate is like a large turf oval. Honourable members can understand what will happen if this locust plague is allowed to develop. When the authorities are looking at the position in the Riverina district I appeal to them to investigate parts of my electorate because people there are the hardest hit in the rural crisis. At the present time, many of them cannot afford to restock their own country. They have cattle on agistment. I think this plague would be the final blow. I do not want to delay the House. I hope that the authorities will have a look at this matter and see that my electorate is not forgotten. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
 The honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  was in good voice tonight. He is seldom at a loss for words even if he does not very often say very much. I certainly sympathise with the members of his electorate. To have the honourable member for Grayndler and the aircraft together is indeed to be exposed to a fair degree of noise. I think that in looking at this question we should hope for - I think with some reasonable confidence - changes in aircraft techniques which will alleviate the problem which undoubtedly exists. The suppression of noise from aircraft is now under investigation and I believe that the noise will be very much lessened in the near future. One would hope also that the development of vertical take-off and short take-off aircraft which has been mentioned by my friend the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham)  in this House will come into focus and allow us to think pf these problems in a more constructive way. 1 think we should congratulate the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  on a balanced and constructive approach to these very real problems - and they are problems. To my way of thinking it is a very good thing that he has proposed now to have full co-operation between the Commonealth authorities and the authorities of New South Wales, because although aviation is within the Commonwealth's jurisdiction the airports we are talking about are in New South Wales and Government of New South Wales will have a very proper interest in their siting. I am very glad that its representatives have been co-opted on to this committee. When we speak of the Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport I think there is one thing we should keep in mind and that is that the development of that airport has brought along with it the development of Botany Bay as a port which may be tremendously important for the whole future of New South Wales. With the development of deep draught shipping, which was not foreseen even a couple of decades ago, Sydney Harbour is not adequate for the new circumstances. It may well be that the development of Botany Bay as a deep water port which has come into being with the development of the aerodrome will be of tremendous importance to the whole future economy of New South Wales. 
I am glad that in this report the Government has rejected the idea of a further aerodrome at Towra Point. I think it would have been unwise and unfair to have put another aerodrome there, and that this is a wise decision. I am glad that for conservation and other reasons the Government has rejected the sites at Wattamolla and Duffy's Forest. The new aerodrome will be at Somersby, Richmond or perhaps some third site. I do not know whether Somersby would be the best site. Obviously there are technical considerations which I would not want to go into. But if Newcastle is to have its main airport at Williamtown, which will be accessible to the city when the new bridge is built, the attraction of Somersby to that extent might be lessened because the northern part of the area will be served from the Newcastle side. This seems to suggest that Richmond may be the best site. I am not impressed by talk about the mountains being too near. This may have been important in the old days, but with proper landing devices which are now available it does not have the same kind of importance as it would have had 10, 1 5 or 20 years ago. 
Again 1 do not pretend to have a technical knowledge of this matter but it does seem to me that Richmond has certain advantages. Firstly, it is a proper distance from Sydney. By saying 'a proper distance' I mean that it is neither too near nor too far. It is important that it be not too far from Sydney; oherwise it cannot be developed as an alternative airport to the KingsfordSmith Airport which will take away the nuisance of night flying at KingsfordSmith. Honourable members know that very often the curfew must be broken for safety reasons. If there were an alternative airport near Sydney this would not be necessary and the position at Kingsford-Smith would be much improved. 
I think that a second airport for Sydney has to be connected to Sydney by both an expressway and a railway or perhaps some rapid transport system. Richmond has some advantages because the expressway that would go to Richmond would be serving other purposes. From Sydney to Parramatta obviously we need an expressway, and from Parramatta to Richmond we get access to 2 other lines, the Bell's line to the west of New South Wales and the Putty fine to the north of New South Wales which branch off from one another in the Windsor-Richmond area. It seems to me that if we were to select Richmond as the site there would be very great advantages for the development of the road system in New South Wales in a way which is not directly related to the airport. Rail access would also be available. It may be that the rail access would be by means of a rapid transport system. But at least there would be a permanent way which would not be like the permanent way to the north of the Hawkesbury which consists of a winding track which will never take high speeds. In this case there would be a virtually flat track which would be capable of taking high speeds and so a high speed rail could be constructed into the Richmond area. 
I do not want to be too definite about this. All I am trying to do is put forward some matters which are not perhaps technical matters as far as the aerodrome is concerned. I suggest that in this area perhaps there might be advantages not connected with the aerodrome, in having these facilities. The area to the west of Sydney requires good transport for reasons other than the aerodrome. If we can combine good transport facilities for the aerodrome with the good transport facilities which are needed for other reasons, particularly for the trunk roads going to the west and north of New South Wales, there may be some advantages. If we can develop the second airport within a reasonable distance of Sydney the noise nuisance from KingsfordSmith Airport will be very much reduced. Everyone hopes that it will be so reduced. I have a great deal of understand ing of the nuisance which is caused. We have to think of ways and means of reducing it. 
The answer to the honourable gentlemen's question briefly is yes. I appreciate his interest in this matter. It is not usually, or perhaps not universally, realised that the facilities of the sheltered workshops system are already available in a sense to aged persons. They are available in 2 ways: Firstly, the aged persons may themselves be suffering from a disability; and secondly, under the existing legislation it is possible for a sheltered workshop always to employ a certain number of people who are not classified as disabled persons. 
The importance of this, I believe, is that aged persons can benefit very much by having some kind of part time employment because this alleviates to a great extent the loneliness and lack of purpose which so often characterise their lives. I know that this matter has been put forward constructively by organisations. I instance for example the Jewish Family Welfare organisation in Melbourne, which has been interesting itself in this field, but lately this matter has taken on a new dimension by reason of the pioneering work done by Alderman Joan Pilone and the City Council in Sydney in the establishment of the Beehive Industries. Beehive Industries are established in the Queen Victoria Building in Sydney. I had the opportunity recently of visiting them and I was exceedingly impressed by what was done there and the lead being given. 
Consideration has now been given to thinking in more direct terms of helping the establishment of sheltered workshops which are largely oriented towards the needs of aged people, and I hope that the House will realise that this is a most forward and significant development which follows on the pioneering work which has been done by organisations, to whom I would like to give full credit. It will not be possible, of course, to give blanket approval in this. It will be necessary, I would think, to look at the needs of the individual people concerned insofar as they do not constitute a majority of the people in sheltered workshops. This fresh initiative to which I have referred is in terms of the existing legislation, and no amendment of the existing legislation will be necessary. But I commend to the House the significance of this new development. What we want to do is to see our elderly people happy and contented and to give them some sense of purpose in their lives. I gratefully acknowledge the lead that has been given in this field by such activities as those of the Jewish Welfare organisation in Melbourne and particularly of course the initiative shown by Beehive Industries in Sydney. 
Pursuant to section 148 of the Social Services Act 1947- 1971 I present the thirtieth annual report of the Director-General of Social Services for the year ended 30th June 1971.  . 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The estimated additional cost involved in paying age pension free of means test to women over 60 years and men over 65 years of age after the rates proposed in the Social Services Bill (No. 2) become operative is approximately $440m a year. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(2) and (3) It is not the policy of the Government to give information on these matters which concern advice 'to Ministers and arrangements between Ministers and their advisers. 
See answers to Questions Nos. 3600 and 3601 in Hansard of 7th September 197L 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The following table contains the requested information. 
The answer to the hon.honourable member's question is as follows: 
The essential requirement for payment of supplementary assistance is that the pensioner pays rent and is entirely or substantially dependent on his pension. For a pensioner to establish . these points and indicate that he requires supplementary assistance be must first lodge an application for it. Generally the date of commencement is the pension ' pay-day after the receipt of the application as in the case of pensions. This procedure was adopted when supplementary assistance was introduced in 1958 and any variation is a matter of Government policy which will be considered at the appropriate time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Under the provisions of the Social Services Act 1947-1971 a person is not entitled, while an inmate of a mental hospital, to receive age or invalid pension or sickness benefit. On discharge from a mental hospital a qualified person  is  entitled to receive up to 12 weeks pension or benefit related to his period of hospitalisation. Most mental institutions now provide separate open ward divisions for the treatment and training of patients participating in rehabilitation programmes designed to achieve their early discharge to ordinary living in the community. These rehabilitation divisions are not classified as a mental hospital for the purpose of the Social Services Act and qualified rehabiliatation patients are entitled to social service benefits. 
No. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The table set out below expresses child endowment expenditure as a percentage of Gross National Expenditure for each financial year commencing 1960-61. In calculating the percentages, expenditure on endowment for student children, which commenced in January 1964, has been taken into account. 
There has been no change in this policy since the longdeparted days of the last Labor Government. The policy which we carry out is one explicitly laid down by Ministers of a Labor Government when that Party was in power. The question of whether a man is participating or concerned in a strike is always a difficult question of fact. I recall that I did examine the situation at Broken Hill for the honourable member. The situation at Cobar is now under examination. 
I present the fol  lowing petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That Lake Pedder, situated in the Lake Pedder National Park in South-West Tasmania, is threatened with inundation as part of the Gordon River hydro-electric power scheme. 
That an alternative scheme exists, which, if implemented would avoid inundation of this lake. 
That Lake Pedder and the surrounding wilderness area is of such beauty and scientific interest as to be of a value beyond monetary consideration. 
And that some unique species of flora and fauna will be in danger of extinction if this area is inundated. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Federal Government take immediate steps to act on behalf of all Australian people to preserve Lake Pedder in its natural slate. All present and particularly future Australians will benefit by being able to escape from their usual environment to rebuild their physical and mental strength in this unspoilt wilderness area. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound will ever pray. 
 Petition received and read. 
The procedure and the criteria in regard to Aboriginals are exactly the same as for other Australians. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) My Department obtains from organisations seeking subsidy under the Aged Persons Homes Act a statement as to the amount of money included in the organisation's share of the capital cost that has been obtained by donations made by or on behalf of intending residents. This information is shown on the list of approvals under the Act which is forwarded monthly to all members of Parliament. 
Approximately 38 per cent of the accommodation subsidised under the Act during the past 3 years relied on residents' donations for the organisation's share of the capital cost of that accommodation. Some of the amount donated is used for furniture, furnishings, moveable equipment or other items not eligible for Commonwealth subsidy. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. We, the citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia humbly pray that the Government of this country will: 
Ban the shooting of kangaroos for commercial purposes. (No animal can withstand hunting on such a concentrated scale as exists under present legislation.) 
Ban the export of all kangaroo products from Australia. 
Prevent the extinction of the red kangaroo. (The red kangaroo has been reduced to a numerical level where its survival is in jeopardy.) 
Institute a scientific survey of the kangaroo population. 
Establish large national parks of good quality land as major tourist attractions. 
Take control of and be completely responsible for the management of Australia's wildlife. 
Petition received. 
Pakistan: Return of Refugees from India 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2) and (3) As the honourable member will be aware, the Prime Minister recently announced the Government's intention to increase the rate of Nursing Home Benefits by $1.50 per day. 
Assistance towards the cost of providing hostel accommodation for the aged is provided under Part III of the Aged Persons Homes Act, in the form of a Personal Care Subsidy of $5 per week paid in respect of residents aged 80 years and over. 
No proposal is before the Government to bring the rate of Personal Care Subsidy up to the level of Nursing Home Benefits. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The State Ministers concerned with Child Welfare held their Second Annual Conference in Hobart from 15th to 18th March 1971. 
See my answer to Question No. 2971, paragraph 2 (Hansard, 17th August 1971, page 169). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
When the unemployment and sickness benefits legislation was introduced in 1944 the Government of the day decided that the additional benefit for a child should cease at 16 years of age. Succesive Governments have confirmed this decision. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Section 108 of the Social Services Act provides, inter alia, that to qualify for sickness benefit a person must establish that he is temporarily incapacitated for work by reason of sickness or accident and has thereby suffered a loss of salary, wages or other income. A person who receives a payment for long service leave or furlough at his normal weekly rate of pay either in a lump sum or by instalments, has not suffered a loss of salary or wages for the period represented by the amount of the payment. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Regular statistics of the period for which unemployment benefits are paid are not maintained. From a survey, of benefits current as at 29th May *1971, however, it is estimated that the average period for which the benefits current at that date had been in force was 9.7 weeks. Some 42 per cent of beneficiaries had been in receipt of benefits for less than one month, and only 8 per cent for more than six months. 
The information is not available. However, from information obtained from the above survey it is estimated that the average period for which unemployment benefits current at 29th May 1971 had been in force was 8.4 weeks for 'metropolitan' areas and 10.6 weeks for 'non-metropolitan' areas. For the purposes of the survey 'metropolitan' areas comprised areas served by State Headquarters Offices and associated metropolitan suboffices of the Social Services Department and non-metropolitan' areas comprised areas served by the Regional Offices of the Department. 
-I am a little puzzled by what the Leader of the Opposition has said. Has he confused 'less' with more'? 
-I think that perhaps there is some confusion in the mind of the Leader of the Opposition. The question is a complicated one and I shall see that an answer is given to the Leader of the Opposition. 
The answer to both the honourable member's questions is yes. 
I think that the facts as stated by the honourable member are correct, and I think that the suggestion he makes is a valuable one to which I will give consideration. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The submission made by the Australian Council of Social Service was received on 6th May 1971. 
The proposals submitted by the Australian Council of Social Service involving specific changes in social service benefits are shown below, together with the estimated cost of implementing each proposal whch was not adopted in the 1971 Budget and each proposal which was partly adopted. 
That the rates of Social Service benefits be based on factors such as family responsibility and need, irrespective of causes of need and be as follows: 
The honourable member might well remind himself, if things are going to echo down the ages, of the fact that the Government has put value into the pension, because the present real value of the pension, in terms of purchasing power, is nearly twice what it was in the lamentable days of the last Labor Government. 
Opposition Members - No. 
The echoes of the ages are quite clear, are they not? We can hear them coming from the other side of the House. 
The Commonwealth Rehabilitation Service is available for such patients but I am by no means certain that it is capable of meeting all their needs. I gather that the honourable member's question relates to those who are unable to benefit from the facilities of the Commonwealth Rehabilitation Service. There is some gap in our social services and this is one of the things which is at present under consideration. 
 I have listened with interest to the debate, which has now run its allotted course. I do not think that I merit either the praise which has been given to me from the Government side or the condemnation which has been given to me from the Opposition side. I am neither as meritorious as that nor do I think I am as incompetent as that. Let us try to find a middle course. As I said, I have listened to the matters which have been mentioned on both sides of the chamber. I particularly mention the things which were said by the honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson)  and the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi).  The honourable member for Perth made two or three points which I feel are worth consideration. Firstly, he spoke about the size of some of these groups of aged persons homes. I think that in this matter we do not want to lay down any uniformity. Some people prefer a bigger group. I have some preference for the smaller group, but I would not like to impose my preference one way or the other. I would think there is a proper place here for the exercise of individual responsibility and choice. 
Secondly, the honourable member made a point in regard to donations and to the fact that something could be sold twice. If he will look at the monthly returns which are available to honourable members he will see that more than half the units are occupied free of any donation. I think about two-thirds of the units being constructed are occupied free of any donation at all. If the honourable member will consider what he was saying a moment ago about units being sold and resold indefinitely 1 think he will come to the conclusion that he is wrong. New units form part of that half or so of the total number occupied free of donation. I believe that, as the honourable member admits, this scheme will demonstrate that it is being successful. It is true that in 1969 we made some changes in the fundamental deeds which these organisations sign when they construct a new home with a government subsidy. But in general the scheme is working very well. I think even the honourable member will admit that. 
He spoke of the difference between a capital subsidy and maintenance subsidy. I think this matter was also mentioned by the honourable member for Hawker. In this field the Government is trying to avoid duplication with State functions. I will admit that it is difficult. But even in the field of age persons care the Commonwealth does not have sole responsibility. A person who is a citizen of Australia is also a citizen of New South Wales or whatever the State may be and also perhaps a citizen of a city, Sydney, Melbourne or whatever city we may like to name. In all these things there is a concurrent responsibility. The Commonwealth has not the sole responsibility. What is the proper function of the Commonwealth is also, to some extent, a function of the State and the municipality, because they should be looking after their own people. When we come to divide these responsibilities in terms of the functions that we carry out we try to avoid duplication and to make the line between the Commonwealth and the State as clear-cut as possible. It is not possible to provide this absolutely, so we try to keep our subventions roughly in the capital field where they do not interfere with the administration which is the proper prerogative of the State. 
This is something which is done in the interests of the organisations and of the people concerned whether they be elderly, disabled or handicapped. It is not a bad rule. As I have said, we cannot carry it out absolutely but we do try to have this general guiding principle. I feel that there is some substance in what the honourable member for Hawker said, but I would ask him to remember that the Commonwealth assistance to sheltered workshops is only 4 to 5 years old. It has been developing immensely. We did not originate this idea of sheltered workshops. They ante-dated the Commonwealth subvention. But what the Commonwealth subvention has done is to accelerate their growth immensely. This is good thing. The accelerating growth is still going on. But I agree with the honourable member that there are still some areas of uncertainty in which the Commonwealth has not yet finally made up its mind. He instanced swimming pools. I do not think the Commonwealth should engage in expenditure on what perhaps some people would consider to be almost a luxury. On the other hand, the honourable member is quite right when he speaks about the therapeutic value of pools for certain disabled people. Although the Commonwealth does not subsidise them, this does not mean that they cannot be built. They may be built from other funds. But I think the honourable member has a point which is worth considering as the scheme develops. I felt that he was not on such sound ground when he was talking about fares. I think we do make an allowance of $4 a week for fares to persons attending sheltered workshops. When the honourable member spoke about people who worked only a few hours or a few days in the week because they were finding their fares burdensome, .1 felt that he was on unsound ground. He was not quite speaking in accordance with the facts. However, I listened with some attention to what he was saying because I realised that he is studying this programme and is actively engaged in its support. I am only too happy to receive opinions from people who are earnest in this regard, whether they be on that side of the House or are my own side of the House. This is a developing programme which is npt frozen and fixed in any regard at all and which I and the Government are developing very rapidly. It may be that other improvements can be made. I acknowledge this. 
Finally I would like to say something about the main points that have been raised by honourable members opposite. It would not be proper for me at the present moment to commit the Government in regard to policy. I am not trying to do that. But the Opposition seems to be a little confused in what it is saying and is perhaps not quite practical. It is of course possible to introduce national superannuation straight away if people are prepared to bear the cost. The honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  who speaks for the Opposition on social service matters, mentioned airily a figure of $ 1,800m a year. It is his figure. I believe that it is not altogether a fair figure. I think it may be too low for what he has in mind. But I will not go into that. Let me accept his own figure and take it at its face value. Even by itself it is an immense amount But if one also takes into account the commitments which are being made by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  for housing, invalid pensions, education and one thing and another one will see that the Opposition would impose on the Australian taxpayer a burden which he could not possibly be expected to bear. Even though it may be said that $ 1,800m a year is a very large sum to spend on national superannuation- I should think myself that it would be an insupportable amount - it should be remembered that it does not stand alone. If one takes into consideration the education proposals, the housing proposals and all the other things which are being scattered abroad from the Australian Labor Party's cornucopia one will come to the conclusion that its members are not really practical people but that they just say what they think will be popular. 
The honourable member for Sturt has a habit of interrupting debates in this Parliament. He is showing himself to be a left winger. He is establishing himself as one of the left wing people in this Parliament. I repeat that the honourable member for Sturt, who continues to interject, is establishing himself in this Parliament as a left winger. He is establishing himself not as the representative of the bulk of the people in his electorate but as the representative of a small, militant section which is itself not even representative of the trade unions. 
The interjections from the honourable member for Sturt show quite clearly the kind of character which he is establishing for himself in this chamber and in his own electorate- that of an extreme left winger. The members of the Opposition have spoken tonight of poverty in Australia, of the poverty line and of how pensions in Australia are not as good as those overseas. I want to read to honourable members - this is the last thing 1 will do in this debate - a letter which was written recently to the London Times' by Professor Henderson, who is the creator of the poverty line and to whom the Opposition refers. I will quote exactly what he said. Professor Henderson said: 
I might add that our poverty line is considerably higher than the supplementary assistance standard generally accepted as the poverty line in Britain. In spite of that, the proportion 'in poverty' in Australia is at 5 per cent, much lower than in Britain. 
He went on to say: 
In contrast to  Mr Moreton-Evans'  original statement that 'distribution of wealth in Australia is among the most inequitable in the civilised world', it is our judgment- 
This is what Professor Henderson said on behalf of himself and his fellow workers at the University of Melbourne - that the incidence of poverty in Australia is lower than in any country in the world with the possible exceptions of New Zealand and the Scandinavian countries, and that the distribution of wealth and income is more equitable than in any other country, with the same possible exceptions. 
If the Opposition wants to call into evidence what Professor Henderson said about the poverty line, this is, in point of fact, what he did say and I think it had better go into the record. Of course things in Australia are not perfect. They are not perfect in any country but at least here we can say that there are comparatively fewer people in poverty than there are in other countries, with, as the professor says, the possible exception of New Zealand and the Scandinavian countries. If honourable members will look at the level of our social services and compare them with the social services available in the United Kingdom, for example, they will see that they compare very yell indeed for the individual. The comparison will be to Australia's advantage. It may be that we do not have some of the very high payments which are being made in other countries in Europe, but remember at the same time that we do not have the very heavy rates of taxation contribution which those same countries exact and which are necessary in order to pay for the services they give. But for those at the bottom of the scale - the people who are really in need - the Australian provision is among the best in the world. That is the fact of the matter. I have quoted what Professor Henderson, the original measurer of the poverty line has had to say in that regard. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In my reply of 20th August 1970 to representations made to me on behalf of  Mr William  Martin by the honourable member for Calare I informed him that I would discuss with the Minister for Immigration the matter of the loss of German pension when the recipient becomes an Australian citizen. 
Except in the case of a temporary visit to Britain or New Zealand, with which countries Australia has reciprocal agreements, Australian pensions are not payable overseas. However, on return to Australia after a period of temporary absence, a pensioner may receive payment of pension for up to 30 weeks of that absence. 
and (4) It is understood that in the course of discussions on a wide range of subjects, at Bonn in July 1969, an official of the West German Ministry of Labour requested the then Minister for Immigration to take up with the Australian Goverment the question of a social security agreement. 
I have no information which would support  a  contention of this kind. 
The matter is under consideration and discussion. 
The honourable member is no doubt quicker than I am at adding up, dividing and subtracting. I would say that in principle what he said is probably correct. If he will let me have the figures I will myself do the addition, subtraction and so on and will let him know the exact answer. I think the answer probably is, yes. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now  read a  second time. 
The main purpose of this Bill is to give effect to the proposal which was announced by the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  in his Budget Speech to increase the maximum loan under the war service homes scheme from $8,000 to $9,000. The war service homes scheme is the Commonwealth's own housing scheme. The scheme is part of a comprehensive range of repatriation benefits for Australian ex-service men and women and their dependants. Its aim is to assist eligible persons to secure homes of their own by providing them with low interest, long term housing loans. I need hardly remind honourable members that a war service homes loan is a very valuable repatriation benefit. Loans, which are available without any waiting period, carry interest at only 3i per cent per annum and are repayable over terms up to 45 years, or 50 years in the case of certain eligible widows. The present maximum loan of $8,000 came into operation in November 1968. The increase in the maximum loan to S9,000 is designed to assist eligible persons to meet increases since 1968 in the costs of acquiring a home. It will directly benefit eligible persons by reducing the amount they would otherwise have to provide from their own funds or from supplementary borrowings. Indirectly, it will benefit the whole community by enabling more persons to obtain a home of their own. 
The primary purpose of increasing the maximum loan is to give eligible persons who have not previously received assistance under the scheme a more favourable opportunity to obtain a home. However, when the legislation is assented to, applications will be accepted in conformity with existing policy and within the new loan limit from existing purchasers and borrowers for additional loans to provide essential extra accommodation and certain approved utility services, such as sewerage. The Bill also provides for a widening of the definition of holding' in the War Service Homes Act, which wilt enable certain interests in land, not presently provided for in the Act, to be accepted as a security for a war service homes loan. The definition of 'holding' in general covers only freehold land, perpetual leases, leases for 99 years from the Commonwealth and certain leases from the Commonwealth or a State under which the applicant, upon fulfilment of the terms, conditions and covenants of the lease, is entitled to a grant in fee simple of the land. The Bill makes provision for an extension of the definition of 'holding' to include a lease for a term of not less than 99 years from a. State or from a local governing body, a conditional purchase under the Crown Lands Consolidation Act 1913 of the State of New South Wales and a unit defined in a units plan registered in accordance with a law of the Australian Capital Territory relating to unit titles, being a unit of which the applicant or borrower is a lessee under a lease from the Commonwealth. These interests in land represent new tenures or tenures which until recently were not in common use and which are now generally accepted as marketable interests in land and which would provide a satisfactory security for a war service homes loan. 
The Bill also includes a number of other amendments which are designed to facilitate the administration of the Act. Clause 3 amends the definitions of 'purchaser' and borrower' for the purposes of sections 30a, 31 and 36 of the Act. Section 30a, 31 and 36 of the Act empower the Director to exercise certain remedies should a purchaser or borrower fail to comply with the terms and conditions of his contract of sale or mortgage. The Act defines a 'purchaser' to mean a person who has purchased from the Director a dwelling-house and land; and a 'borrower' as a person who has received an advance, or executed a mortgage or other security to the Director. These definitions do not specifically include the transferees of the original purchaser or borrower or other persons deriving title through the original purchaser or borrower. For the effective administration of this Act, it is necessary that the Director should be empowered to exercise the remedies under sections 30a, 31 and 36, against all successors in title to the original purchaser or borrower to the same extent that he may have exercised those powers against that purchaser or borrower. The proposed amendments to the definitions of 'purchaser* and 'borrower' provide accordingly. 
Clause 7 provides for the insertion of a new section in the Act (section 30b), which will empower the Director, when he enters into possession of a property in pursuance of a warrant issued under section 30a of the Principal Act, to remove goods found in the dwelling house and store them in a safe place and to sell or otherwise dispose of the goods upon the expiration of a period of 3 months after a notice of the removal of the goods has been published. 
Clause 10 provides for the insertion of a new section in the Act (Section 48d), which will empower the Director to advance money on mortgage to an ineligible person for the purpose of effecting a sale when exercising the powers of sale conferred by section 36, section 48 and section 48c of the Act. While the usual practice of the Director is to sell properties under the powers conferred in these sections to eligible persons, it is sometimes necessary to effect a sale to an ineligible person, where, for example, the property is no longer suitable for sale to an eligible person, or where an eligible person is not available to purchase the property. Under the existing provisions of the Act, the Director's power to lend on mortgage is generally limited to eligible persons. The fact that the Director does not have power, where it is necessary to effect a sale to an ineligible person, to receive part of the purchase price in cash and leave part out on mortage has created some very real administrative difficulties and sometimes results in a loss of moneys to the Commonwealth. Honourable members will appreciate, from the brief summary I have given, that this Bill embraces a wide range of matters, the majority of which are of a beneficial nature, effecting a number of desirable improvements in the War Service Homes Scheme. Since this Scheme commenced in 1919, approximately 322,000 eligible persons have been assisted to become home owners and, at the present time, there are approximately 188,000 homes throughout the Commonwealth subject to loans under the Scheme. This is approximately equivalent to the total number of homes in the Perth metropolitan area. From these facts and figures there can be no doubt that the War Service Homes Scheme, since it commenced in 1919, has played a significant role in the development of our nation. The improvements provided for in this Bill will enable the Scheme to continue making an important contribution to the national welfare by assisting eligible persons and their families in all parts of the Commonwealth to obtain homes and I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Uren)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The interdepartmental committee had not made a report at the relevant time. However, I understand that officers of  my  Department co-operated to the fullest possible extent with the Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare and supplied it with all information that was required and that was available. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The organisations that establish homes with the assistance of subsidy under the Aged Persons Homes Act are religious bodies, charitable and benevolent organisations not conducted for profit, and local government authorities. Experience over the years since this Act commenced in 1954 has shown that these organisations act responsibly in the conduct of their homes and generally show a kindly and sympathetic attitude to the problems of the aged people they serve. Subject to organisations complying with the requirements of the Act and the conditions on which the grant is made, the Government has consistently refrained from interfering in the domestic running of their homes. The question of termination or otherwise, of the occupancy of residents who do not meet their reasonable obligations to the organisation conducting the home is considered to be quite property  a  domestic matter for the organisation and it would be inappropriate for the Government to intervene. While all organisations accept a responsibility to provide permanent accommodation for aged persons, it would not be proper for the Government to force organisations to guarantee occupancy under all circumstances. Nor is an organisation permitted under the conditions of grant to alienate ownership or control of premises subsidised under the Act. 
Charitable and benevolent organisations are usually registered under State Acts which require the submission of annual financial statements to  a  nominated State authority. No reason is seen to require organisations to make this information public or to supply it to residents. 
Existing legal channels enable evictions to be contested in  a  court of law. The very few evictions from aged persons homes that take place would not justify the setting up of another independent tribunal. 
No units in aged persons homes can be sold. All organisations receiving grants enter into a legal agreement with the Commonwealth which, in the case of organisations that accept donations, requires them to reach a position, as soon as possible, in which at least half the accommodation in the home is occupied by people who have not been required to make a donation. 
This is a matter for the religious bodies, voluntary organisations and local government authorities themselves to decide. In many cases it would not be practicable to impose such a condition and in others the residents may not wish to take a part in the management of the home. (0 As mentioned above, organisations are required to enter into a legal agreement with the Commonwealth which sets out the terms and conditions under which the grant is made. These have been approved by the Government and are incorporated in an explanatory booklet which is freely available to organisations and other interested persons. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
 Mr 
Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. Yesterday's Press reported me as having said in relation to the States that I did not agree with the statement that care for the aged was mainly the Commonwealth's responsibility. What I did say was that care for the aged was not entirely the Commonwealth's responsibility. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable Hie  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. This petition of supporters of the Committee to Slop Duffy's Forest Airport respectfully showeth that: 
There is a public controversy over the decision to establish an airport at Duffy's Forest, situated in the metropolitan area of Sydney. 
There is a strong case for the lease of 99 acres of Crown Land presently being offered by the State Government of New South Wales to (he Commonwealth Government for an airport site to be revoked, and that part of the Crown Land which contains the Wianamatta shale cap to be preserved for all time for the people of Australia by being included in the boundaries of the Kuringgal Chase National Park. If the airport is established there will be extensive damage to the ecology of natural bushland over a widespread area. 
Noise pollution will have a detrimental effect over a widespread area of the suburbs surrounding the Chase. 
We believe that it is essential to protect the recreational nature and peace of Ku-ring-gai Chase National Park both now and for the future. 
Your petitioners humbly pray that your Honourable House will at once, in the public interest, take appropriate steps to ensure that the Government revokes the lease of the Crown Land belonging to the State of New South Wales and ceases all negotiations for purchase of 37 acres of land privately owned which comprise the 136 acres necessary for the airport s;ie and abandon the proposal to establish an airport at Duffy's Forest. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No legislation administered by the Department of Social Services imposes a limit on the amount a nursing home may charge a pensioner patient. The question of the charges to be met on admission of a pensioner to a nursing home is a matter for negotiation and arrangement between the pensioner and the home concerned. 
In view of the known rising cost of conducting nursing homes and the differing financial circumstances and requirements of individual pensioners, it is by no means certain that a provision of this kind would prove, in practice, to be in the best interest of pensioners generally. As announced to the House on 5th October (see Hansard, page 1878) the Government has the question of assistance to nursing homes currently under examination. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) No. A deserted de facto wife is not included in the definition of widow prescribed by section 59 of the Social Services Act 1947-1971. 
Yes. Under the conditions prescribed in Divisions 2 and 3 of Part IV of the Act. 
Where a widow pensioner has custody, care and control of a child as defined by section 59 or 59a of the Act. 
Not in respect of the illegitimate child but she could have a right to a Class A widow's pension through other children or, by age, to a Class B widow's pension. 
Where an invalid pensioner has custody, care and control of a chid or chidren under the age of 16 years (including a student deemed under section 18a of the Act, to be a child under the age of 16 years) additional pension is payable in respect of each such child. 
 I had not meant to intervene in this debate, but some of the things that have been said by members of the Opposition have constrained me to do so. The fact is that the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  and the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  have had considerable success in getting what they believed to be right, and this is the substance of it. The substance is not that there should be political advantage in this House. The substance is that something should be done in regard to an Act or in regard to the policy of the Government. What has happened is that the honourable member for La Trobe and the honourable member for Moreton have succeeded in making their point. They will get something effective done and this no doubt has distressed the Opposition immensely because the Opposition is not honest in this. 
The Opposition is not trying to get anything done for the benefit of the servicemen, the pensioners or anyone else; it is out all the time trying to make political points. The degree of that insincerity can be seen by the fact that members of the Opposition are getting up and asking people to vote in the House and taunting them because they do not vote when, as a matter of fact, they need not vote because they have got what they wanted. Yet these same people are themselves always bound by a Caucus decision and know very well that they would be expelled from their Party if they voted in this House against a Caucus decision. But they come in here and bellow like a lot of spayed cows at Government supporters. We do have a freedom from caucus decisions but we use that freedom in a democratic way and in a way which gets results. We use it in the way that the honourable member for La Trobe and the honourable member for Moreton used it and in the way that T used it when I was on the back bench. We did not want to make political points; what we wanted to do was to get results. I appeal to the Opposition to get rid of this factionalism and try to look at things on their merits. 
What we in this House are trying to do is to pass good laws and to give good administration. We are not really concerned with who is going to make a political point on one side or the other. Let us get back to taws in this House. We arc here to help the Australian people to be governed well. We are not here primarily for the purpose of making political points. J have never seen an Opposition betray its real motives and its real fraudulent character more clearly than the Opposition has this afternoon. 
I am aware of the facts quoted by the honourable gentleman. The anomaly has been receiving my attention. I can assure him that the matters of policy to .which he has referred are at present under consideration. I do not think that this is an appropriate time to be discussing these matters of major policy. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
As indicated in my answer to Question No. 4540  1  of 10 November 17971, Hansard, page 3304, statistics of the number of pensioners ceasing to be eligible for the Pensioner Medical Service are not maintained. Periodical statistics are available, however, of the number of age pensioners enrolled in the scheme and the number ineligible for enrolment. The following table shows figures for 29th March, 30th June and 11th October 1971. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Questions of increasing the rate of supplementary assistance and extending the range of eligibility are matters of policy which will be considered by the Government at the appropriate time. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) I refer the honourable member to the reply given by the Minister for Health on 23 November 1971. (see Senate Hansard at page 1960). 
Railways: Sandy HollowMaryvale (Question No. 4265) 
As so often happens in this House, the most significant speech on the Opposition's side has been made by the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly),  and I will return to that speech in a moment. It has been admitted that nobody who appeared before the Privileges Committee was untruthful. The Committee came to the conclusion that a mistake had been made. The question before the House relates to the significance of that mistake. If the mistake was an insignificant one, the motion as proposed by the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  will go through. If it was a significant one, perhaps the amendment should go through. 
Let us look at this matter, lt has been quite obvious from speeches made by members of the Opposition that they believe that they have been wronged by this statement. They believe that they have been put in a wrong light. They say that they would not do a thing like this and that what was suggested was entirely foreign to the way in which the Opposition behaves. The honourable member for Grayndler made it quite clear that this contention could not be upheld. The honourable member for Grayndler said: 'This is the way in which we do behave. I was caught in the chamber. If I had been able to get out of the chamber T would have got out. But I could not do so'. That is what he said. This is how the Opposition behaves. The Opposition was trying to bring about the result which it did bring about. Opposition members have been saying: 'It is our job to keep the Government on its toes.' Every member knows that this is what the Opposition does time and time again. So often I come along the corridor to answer the quorum bells and find Opposition members going in the opposite direction. They say: We are not going to get into the House. It is only a quorum'. I have seen this happening dozens of times. 
Perhaps even hundreds of times, but certainly dozens of times. This is the way in which the Opposition behaves. The honourable member for Grayndler has let the cat out of the bag tonight in this House. If honourable members look at what the honourable member for Grayndler said - and they will read it tomorrow in Hansard - they will see that- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Hallett)Order! The point of order is without substance. I call the Minister for Social Services. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Australian  Education  Council's report on the needs of government education service* has established serious deficiencies in education, the most important areas being a severe shortage of teachers, inadequate accommodation, and, as a result, oversized classes. 
That extra Federal finance is urgently required to save (be government school system. 
That while the needs of the government schools are being neglected, large amounts of public money is being given, in various and numerous grants, to private schools. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to make emergency Federal finance available to the States for State school education, and divert the large sums of public money being spent on private schools, to the government school system for which the government is truly responsible. 
And your petitioners, as in duly bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is the Government's policy to review regularly all aspects of social services. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Within the past five years there have been discussions relating to the possibility of reciprocity in social security with representatives  of the countries listed below. The date on which  these discussions were commenced is also shown: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(2) and (3) Information in the detail required by the honourable member's question is not available. However, the table below compiled by the Department of Health, shows the average weekly fees which pensioner patients in nursing homes were charged during June 1971, as revealed by a survey of all nursing homes in all States. It should be noted that the Commonwealth nursing home benefit, which is additional to any pension entitlement, was increased to the equivalent of $45.50 a week for intensive care patients and $24.50 for ordinary care patients (an increase of $10.50 a week in each case) with effect from 21st October 1971. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) As indicated in my reply to Question No. 3718 asked by the honourable member (Hansard, 28th September 1971, page 1602) it is not the policy of the Government lo give information on these matters which concern advice to Ministers and arrangements between Ministers and their advisers. Similarly it is not the practice to publish reports prepared for the information of Cabinet. 
An interdepartmental committee has been established to examine in detail the recommendations made by the Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare in its Report on Mentally and Physically Handicapped Persons in Australia. This examination will encompass the more general recommendation on the physically and mentally handicapped made by the Senate Select Committee on Medical and Hospital Costs. I also refer the Honourable Member to the reply given by the Minister for Health on 23rd November 1971 (see Senate Hansard at page 1960). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Precise figures are not available but it is estimated that the effect of the recent increases provided under the Superannuation Act and the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act in each of the categories mentioned, was as follows: (a) 9,100, (b) 1,100, (c) 1,200. 
The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
The granting of these concessions is not within my administration. However, 1 am advised that transport concessions as listed hereunder are, where not otherwise staled, available to age, invalid and widow pensioners who would be entitled to pension under the means test operating prior to 27th September 1969. 
(1) 
New South Wales - half fare on trains, Government buses and ferries, and concessional fares on some privately operated bus services. 
Victoria - half fare on Government buses and trams and approximately half fare on trains. 
Queensland - half fare between any 2 stations and a free return train journey once a year between any 2 stations in the State. Half fares apply to maximum rate pensioners who are residents of Brisbane for travel on council buses in the Brisbane City area. Pensioners may travel at half fare on Council buses in the Rockhampton district. 
South Australia - fares approximating child rates apply to travel on trains, trams and Government buses and on authorised privately operated bus services. 
Western Australia - free train and bus travel in the metropolitan area and free transport on ferries; train journeys in country areas at half fare. Travel on private buses, in Albany, Kalgoorlie and Northam is free to eligible pensioners. 
Tasmania - pensioners may travel on trains between Hobart and Montrose for 7c or Brighton for 13c; half fares apply for other journeys. A flat-rate of 4c per journey is payable on Government buses. Concessions also apply on certain privately operated bus services. 
Commonwealth Railways - half fare concessions available on intra-state journeys. (2) Half fare concessions are available to eligible pensioners travelling by train between Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane. Similar concessions are available from the Commonwealth Railways for travel between Perth, Port Pirie and Alice Springs. It is understood that concessional fares for interstate travel are not available in respect of sleeping berths. Eligible pensioners may travel between Tasmania and the mainland on Australian National Line ships at concessional rates. Interstate concessions are generally available only at certain times of the year. Certain private bus companies also offer concessional fares to pensioners for interstate travel. (3) See answer (2) above. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
lt is estimated that .of the total number of persons qualified by residence for an age pension, about 190,000 receive a part pension and about 440.000 do not receive a pension. 
lt is estimated that the additional annual cost of providing a full age pension to residential^ qualified persons in each of the categories mentioned would bc of the order of - 
S440m. 
$22()m. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) In grants approved under the Aged Person Homes Act since 1st July 1971 the average provisional capital cost (excluding expenditure on furniture) and the estimated average Commonwealth subsidy for each aged person accommodated, for each Sate, are shown in the following table: 
No. Of the organisations' funds used to attract Commonwealth subsidy since 1st July 1971, less than one-third was derived by donations from prospective residents. 
and (5) In the case of a single person the limit of donation disregarded for pension purposes, excluding expenditure on furniture, is $2,500. The limit of the Commonwealth grant for single person accommodation is $4,800 which, together with the amount of $2,500 produces a total of $7,300 which should cover 'he cost of providing accommodation for one person. 
Department of Social Services: Social Workers (Question No. 4855)  Mr Barnard  asked the Minister for Social services, upon notice: 
How many social workers are employed by his Department other than in capital cities. 
Al which centres are they employed and how many arc employed al each. 
How many social workers are employed by his Department in capital cities. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Six (6) social workers are presently employed by the Department of Social Services, other than in capital cities. 
The centres al which they are employed, and the number employed at each, are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
With my approval  Mr Griffith  was invited to accept an appointment as a consultant to the Department for the purpose of reporting upon services, facilities and assistance provided for the rehabilitation of physically and mentally handicapped persons. 
The invitation to  Mr Griffith  was issued in May 1969 and the Department received his report in February 1970. It is not the policy of the Government to give information on matters which concern the advice to Ministers and arrangements between Ministers and their advisors. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill gives effect to the increases in the rates of unemployment, sickness and special benefits announced by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  in opening the Conference of State Premiers on 14th February. The increases proposed in unemployment benefits and the associated short term sickness and special benefits, which are estimated to cost about $4m, are as follows: The adult rate will rise by $7, from $10 to $17 a week; the rate for unmarried persons aged 18 to 20 years will rise by $5, from $6 to $11 a week; and the rate for unmarried persons aged 16 to 17 years will rise by S3, from $4.50 to $7.50 a week. As honourable members know, minors who are married, or who have no parent living in Australia, qualify for the same rate of benefit as adults. It will be recalled that, in the last Budget, the wife's allowance was increased from  S7  per week to  $8  per week; allowance for the first child was increased from  S2.50  per week to  $4.50  per week; and the allowance for each child after the first was increased from  $3.50  per week to  $4.50  per week. The rates of unemployment and associated benefits are now higher than ever before, both in money terms and in terms of real purchasing power. The measure of the improvement during the time since the last Labor administration lost office is dramatic. The figures are as follows: 
Comparison of those figures which I have set out in this table in the last  2  columns will show the increase which has taken place under our Government in the real value of the benefit. The increase is particularly striking where children are concerned, and this illustrates our special concern for the family unit, which was so scandalously neglected under the Labor Government. I remind honourable members that the increases proposed under this Bill apply also to short term sickness benefits and to special benefits. The short term sickness benefit is payable to persons who are temporarily incapacitated for work and who have been in receipt of benefit for less than  6  weeks, after which the higher rate of long term sickness benefit generally applies. This too is an improvement brought in by our Government, because before  1970  all sickness benefit was at the lower short term rate. 
Those who qualify for special benefits, and will receive the increased rate as soon as this Bill is passed, include some women caring for invalid parents or near relatives, some migrants not residentially qualified for normal pensions, and certain unmarried mothers. Unemployment benefit is meant to help those who are temporarily out of work. The number thus unemployed is at present abnormally high for Australia, although it would still be considered abnormally low in most other countries. It is, in fact,  2.3  per cent of our work force, which might be compared with the latest figure of  5.4  per cent in the United States of America - over twice as much - and  4  per cent in the United Kingdom, where, owing to the coal strike, the rate is temporarily far above  4  per cent. Our Australian average unemployment over the past  6  years has been about  1.2  per cent, which must be considered as a most excellent performance by international standards. Indeed, it would be a most excellent performance by the standards which the Australian Labor Party has set for itself. I recall to honourable members opposite that one of their prominent spokesmen,  Mr Leslie  Haylen, then Labor member for Parkes, declared the ALP long term policy in this House when he said: 1 realise that there cannot be total employment, but if we can get down to S per cent of unemployment, for all practical purposes that can be regarded as total employment. 
I am glad to say that this Government rejects Labor's poor standard in this regard. Over the past  20  years only a few people in Australia have been unemployed for any lengthy period, and I do not anticipate that many of those at present unemployed will be out of work for very long. The present increased rates of benefit will help all those who are unemployed, but the great majority of these, as 1 have said, are only temporarily out of a job. Nevertheless the Government regards the present volume of unemployment in Australia as too high, however moderate it might seem to those whose standards are lower than ours. Not only do we regard it as too high; we have set policies in motion which, when they have had time to take effect, will reduce that volume. These policies include the measures which the Prime Minister announced at the Premiers Conference, to which I made reference a few moments ago. 
While the Government is taking measures to increase employment there are certain elements in the community which are deliberately working to create unemployment. I refer to the so called left wing leaders of certain militant trade unions. 
These left-wingers are engaged in doublecrossing their own members, pretending to them they are calling on them to strike in order to improve their conditions- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER  (Mr  Lucock)There is no substance in the point of order. 
These left-wingers, as I have said, are engaged in doublecrossing their own members, pretending to them that they arc calling on them to strike in order to improve their conditions, whereas in reality these left wing leaders are aiming to create unemployment in the hope of producing hardship for workers, leading to what they call a revolutionary situation. Many of these left wing leaders ase communists, and the worst term of abuse in the communist's lexicon is the word 'revisionist'- 
I have been in contact with the representatives of, I think, 13 or 14 countries so far. This is not meant to be an exhaustive list. Others may be added to it. As far as I know, no country has rejected the request. I have sent them all details of our services and I have asked them to let me have details of their corresponding services. I hope within the next week or 10 days to be starting a round of the representatives here to finalise these matters as soon as possible. No delay will be occasioned by this Government, but of course the conclusion of negotiations depends not only on this government but on the other governments. I understand that the relevant legislation is to be introduced during this sitting of the House, but I point out to the honourable member that no delay will be occasioned by this because the preliminary negotiations will be going on irrespective of the introduction of the legislation into this House. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The position is unchanged since my reply to the honourable member's question No. 4463 on 10th November 1971 (Hansard pages 3302-3). 
My Department does provide facilities - not the immediate medical facilities but the subsequent facilities, particularly for training and social integration. I am glad to tell the honourable member that the rehabilitation centre at Glen Waverley in Melbourne now is well advanced under construction and when it is opened - I will give the "honourable member the exact date of opening later today, if I may - I think we will be able to meet the present inadequacies in the services to which quite rightly he drew attention. However, the Government has made the requisite provision to amend those inadequacies. 
 Mr Speaker,  for the information of honourable members, I present a list of homes subsidised under the Aged Persons Homes Act 1954-69 as at 31st December 1971, and I ask leave to make a statement in relation to it. 
The Government regards it as entirely undesirable to divide the nation, and I am sorry that the honourable member is taking steps in that direction. I think that the honourable member for Riverina should realise- 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. It is not very often that a member of this House has to do what I have to do now. The honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  did in fact ask me whether he was the person- 
He asked whether I had the courage, as he said, to name him and I did. I did so at his request. The second thing is that I withdrew those remarks last Thursday week only because they were considered to be offensive. They are true. 

 Mr FOSTER (Sturt)- I ask for leave to make a statement in regard to the attitude that the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  has just displayed in this chamber. 

 Mr WENTWORTH (Mackellar- Minister for Social Services) - Having been misrepresented, I would just like to reply. 
I claim to have been misrepresented,  Sir. The  answer to some of the questions asked by the honourable member for Sturt is yes, and the answer to some of his questions is no. 
It is perfectly true that the honourable member did give me the file. It is not true that I gave him exoneration in the way that he suggested. I will be very happy to have all the facts of his conduct prior to the election examined in this House whenever an opportunity arises. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Surveys of current unemployment benefit recipients were carried out at the end of May, August and November 1971 and information obtained from these surveys about the length of time adult and junior recipients had been receiving benefit is set out in the table below. Similar information is not available for the end of October and December 1971. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Based on the number of pensions current at 31st December 1971, the estimated cost of increasing the present married rate of pension for a couple to twice the present standard rate would be- 
age pension $32m a year 
invalid pension$2.7m a year 
(i) Based on existing rates it is estimated that the additional cost of abolishing the means test on age pensions would be in the vicinity of $430m a year. This would be further increased to over $490m a year if, at the same time, the married rate of pension for a couple was increased to twice the standard rate. 
No information is available as to the number of non-pensioners in Australia who would be qualified for the invalid pension on medical grounds. For existing invalid pensioners the estimated cost would be$9m a year to increase the married couple rate to twice the standard rate and to bring all reduced rate cases to the maximum rate. 
Establishment of Rehabilitation Clinics in Country Areas (Question No. 5078) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Consideration continues to be given to the establishment of rehabilitation clinics in country areas. However, availability of staff has, up to the present, precluded the establishment of such clinics exceptin Newcastle and Townsville. In any further review, the needs of the Spencer Gulf area will be fully considered along with those of other country communities. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Social Services Act provides that the additional benefit for children of an unemployment or sickness beneficiary shall cease at 16 years of age. 
The rates of additional benefit payable for these children have been substantially increased by the present Government Any further liberalisations are a matter of Government policy and will be considered at the appropriate time. 1971 Census (Question No. 5083) 
 Mr Speaker,  may I make a personal explanation? 
I should like to reply, if I might, to the points raised by the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes).  First, I shall deal with what was actually done in Victoria in regard to the last power strike and the courses which were taken. If I remember correctly, the strike commenced on 1st February and concluded; I think on 15 th February. Re-employment took place mainly on 16th and 17th February. As honourable members know, under the Act the first 7 days of unemployment do not count. What we did was this: We ignored the strike as far as 3 categories of people were concerned and we paid them with full continuity irrespective of the strike and irrespective of the union to which they belonged. The categories comprised those people who were registered for unemployment as at 1st February, which was before the strike started; secondly, those people who remained unemployed after 1 8th February, which was after the strike was over; and thirdly, those people who became unemployed not through having been stood down as a result of the strike. Regarding those 3 categories of people, which I think the honourable member would regard as the most important categories, we ignored the whole strike and we paid as though the strike had not taken place. 
Those who were stood down fell into 2 categories. Firstly, they were those who were evidently members of unions which were participating in the strike. There were 23 such unions. Secondly, they were those in whose cases there was some measure of doubt. To those in this category my Department sent out something like 1,600 letters. 
The honourable member has quoted the form of one of them. I think something over 95 per cent have been replied to now and from memory all but about 200 people have qualified and are being paid. This has virtually cleaned the matter up. There may be one or two cases where there has been an administrative error in the Department. This does happen, even when there is the best will in the world, when this kind of chaos occurs. If there are any such cases honourable members should let them be brought to my attention immediately and I will have a look at them forthwith. 
Let me deal now with the other points that the honourable member for Corio has raised; firstly, the legal points relating to what was done and the interpretation of the Act. I must say that 1, as a non-lawyer, feel a certain amount of sympathy with the view that the honourable member has put. But 1 can assure him that I am working on a Cabinet instruction of April 1947 which was signed by  Mr Chifley, Dr Evatt  and  Senator McKenna.  Whatever my knowledge of law may be, at least it is inferior to that of  Dr Evatt  who, being a lawyer, at that time thought that the words of the Act, which were quoted correctly by the honourable member, covered the action the Government has taken. This action was in conformity with what was laid down in 1947 by the then Labor government. 
I can assure the honourable member for Grayndler that that is so. It may well be that we should think in terms of clarifying the Act so that the words clearly state what  Dr Evatt  thought they stated when he signed that instruction. Perhaps lawyers' jargon is not always as clear as it should be and perhaps the Act should be clarified to meet this point. 
There is remaining one most serious matter, and I do regard this as a serious matter. The honourable member for Corio spoke of hardship and so on. He knows very well that in no case was there more than a few days of unemployment relief involved. In all cases, as far as 1 know, the law was followed and what was done was proper. But what he is really talking about is not this at all. What he and the Australian Labor Party are talking about is something quite different. They are trying to lay down the framework for more rolling strikes. They want more of the strikes in which key men come out, as they did at Yallourn, and disrupt industry. They are now looking forward, through their contacts with the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the trade union movement, to other strikes of this character being fomented and brought forward. What they are seeking is a situation where these strikes can be successful because the strikers and other people concerned will be financed by unemployment relief. Let me say quite clearly and definitely that it is the Government's policy that public money should not be used to finance strikes. At present the honourable member knows very well indeed that, as was shown at Yallourn, the technique is to take out a few key men and throw hundreds of thousands out of work in Victoria. This was done quite deliberately in the hope that the Government would finance the strike and make it possible for the strikers to continue, and to bring down the economy of Victoria, New South Wales or wherever it might be. Apparently this is part of Labor policy. They are not worried. How could they really be worried about these payments which are in respect of only a day or so? Nothing has been done contrary to law or established practice. What they are worried about is what they are plotting for the future and what they know the trade union movement is plotting for the future. 
I would have thought that members of the Opposition 
 I will be as kind as I can to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  but I think the House will agree with me that he has made rather an extraordinary speech for somebody who was introducing a Bill because he said practically nothing about the Bill. He gave long accounts of what he alleges the Australian Labor Party has done and what he alleges the Government has not done. He talked a lot about migration but said practically nothing about the Bill he has put before the House. Frankly, when I look at the Bill I do not blame him, but I will come to that in a moment. Since he spent so much of his time talking about the events of the past perhaps I will be pei mit.ted briefly to say a little about the chronology. This matter was brought by me before Cabinet some 3 years ago. An interdepartmental committee was established in December 1969. Its report came to the Cabinet last November. My consequent submission after that report came to the Cabinet the following month - in December - and Cabinet made its decision in January 1972, followed immediately, as the House knows, by the official announcement of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon). 
Since that time we have made specific contact with 13 countries, as the Leader of the Opposition told the House. We have indicated in general to all countries that we would be happy to consider reciprocal arrangements in regard to portability. With regard to the 13 countries with whom we have been in specific contact, we have asked them to let us have details of their social service arrangements and we have provided them with details of our social service arrangements. The reason for this is fairly clear - that the general arrangements and patterns of pensions is different in different countries. When you have reciprocal arrangements you have to have some kind of agreement as to what you are talking about. So far 4 of those countries have given us preliminary details of their social services. None so far as I know have yet given us the final details. But I can assure the House that there will be no delay in the conclusion of the agreements to which the Prime Minister referred and which I shall endeavour to have finalised as far as possible in the next few months. I agree that the interdepartmental committee spent a long time in its study, but there were complicated matters involved. When the House comes to analyse the Bill which has been presented by the Leader of the Opposition it will see some of the pitfalls into which he has rather egregiously fallen in his draft. I will make reference to those pitfalls in a moment. 
When considering the payment of Australian pensions overseas  3  main principles should be borne in mind. The first is that if we are to make any arrangements regarding portability of pensions they should not of necessity exclude the possibility of making further arrangements for full reciprocity in the future. I do not in any way give any commitment in regard to these future arrangements; I simply say that we should leave our options open. I notice that one or two of the countries concerned have already sponsored public statements to the effect that they hope that the portability arrangements which the Government has forecast will later on develop into reciprocity. I am not making any commitment at all in regard to that, except to say that the first principle should be to leave our options open. The second principle should be to endeavour to preserve the rights of migrants to Australia who are not enjoying in Australia the full rights that they would have acquired in those other countries. If we are going to give portability of Australian pensions overseas we should be negotiating a quid pro quo in the interests of Australian citizens who were migrants from those other countries. In other words, it is important for us to try to protect, for example, the rights of certain German pensioners who, because they have become naturalised as Australian citizens, have lost their rights to German pensions. I give this as an example only. There are other examples. I shall certainly try, in negotiating this with the German Government, as far as possible to preserve here in Australia the rights of former German nationals who have become Australian citizens and are resident in Australia. 
I do not want to leave the migrant population unprotected simply by giving away everything without getting something for them in return. Unfortunately, this is one of the things which appears to have escaped the attention of my honourable and learned friend opposite. The third principle is that anything you do should not be open to an abuse which could throw a load on the Australian taxpayer. Nobody wants to deny the right of Australians to take their pensions abroad, but what we want to protect ourselves against is a future development which, by reason of the looseness of our own laws - as would be provided by the Leader of the Opposition - would enable people from overseas to come to Australia for a brief time in order to qualify for Australian pensions and then fleece the Australian taxpayer by going off home and taking the pensions with them. We do not want the position in which people come to Australia for the purpose of getting pensions. 
I will come to that in a moment. We do not want the position in which people could come to Australia for the purpose of getting pensions. I give as an illustration something that happened in the United Kingdom where, by reason of the medical benefits scheme which they had there, people from all over Europe used to go to the United Kingdom to have their operations or medical services and they mulcted the British taxpayer by so doing. I want to protect the interests of the Australian taxpayer, and I think that this is a reasonable thing to do. In his speech the Leader of the Opposition said, very correctly, once or twice - he might have said it  3  times, but he certainly said it twice in his speech - that people who had lived in Australia for some time and had contributed to Australia's prosperity and advancement should be entitled to spend their pensions overseas if they se desired. That is fine. But I want to point out to the House that this Bill does not provide this. I will go into this in more detail in a moment. I just want to let the House know that the Australian Government believes it important that while it is doing justice and giving equity to all people in regard to pensions it should also be concerned with protecting the interests of the Australian taxpayer against any potential abuse - it does not exist now - by people who could come to Australia for the express purpose of qualifying for pensions and taking the pensions with them overseas. This is something which apparently has escaped the attention of my honourable friend the Leader of the Opposition. 
So I remind the House of those 3 principles. The first is that we should maintain our future options on reciprocity. The second is that we should preserve in Australia the rights of migrants who have come with pension rights, which they might otherwise lose, from their own country overseas. We should make certain that what we give we also get for them. We must look after the migrants. The third principle is that the system we. have should not be open to abuse by people coming to Australia just to qualify for pensions. I will, if I may, pay the Leader of the Opposition the compliment of believing that his Bill is well intentioned. In particular I will pay the honourable gentleman the compliment of not assuming that in the proposed new section 83AB in clause 4 of the Bill he has been concealing a treacherous intent. I will pay him that compliment. I believe that he does not mean the proposed new section 83AB to be treacherous. I will pay him the compliment of not imputing to him the motive of putting into this Bill something which is meant to achieve by underhand methods something quite different from what is on the face of the Bill. The proposed new section 83AB reads: 
The provisions of this Act relating to the qualifications of persons to receive age, invalid and widows' pensions and the rate of, and payment of such pensions shall, subject to such exceptions, modifications and adaptions as are prescribed, apply to Australian citizens who are outside Australia. 
I take it that the honourable gentleman means that these modifications and adaptions are not matters of principle that go to the root of the whole thing, that they are not matters which could entirely destroy the concept but rather that they are simply matters of machinery. One knows that things have to be prescribed by regulation from time to time but such right of prescription should not be used to destroy the whole concept of the Social Services Act as appearing on its face. 
Let me go on to show the House what this Bill actually provides because I do not think that the Leader of the Opposition understands this, lt is a bad Bill. Frankly, it is a shocking Bill. The Leader of the Opposition has, if he will pardon the phrase, goofed again. It is a very badly drawn Bill because it does things which I do not believe the honourable gentleman himself intended it to do. I am surprised that he, as a lawyer, should have allowed this to occur. I think his mistake- 

 - Mr Speaker- 

What point of order are you making? 
My Speaker, with all due respect I do not know who I am reflecting on. I am saying that this is a bad Bill and  1  am saying that the Leader of the Opposition has not apparently understood his own Bill.  1  have not mentioned anybody else and I am not reflecting on anybody outside this House at all. How the Leader of the Opposition can get up and take this kind of phoney point I do not know. This is not a fair or reasonable thing to do at all. 
Thank you,  Mr Speaker,  I repeat that I have not mentioned anybody outside this House and I therefore could not have made any reflection on anybody outside this House. I think that the Leader of the Opposition should understand that. I have not made any reflection on anybody outside this House for the very simple reason that I have not mentioned anybody outside this House. I would hope,  Mr Speaker,  that you will call the Leader of the Opposition to order in matters of this character should he again rise and endeavour to interrupt me in this irrelevant way. I believe that the Leader of the Opposition has not understood the import of the Bill he has brought before the House because he is insufficiently acquainted with the details of Australia's social services. In particular he may have forgotten 2 points: Firstly, that our qualifications for residence for pension purpose in Australia is very generous by world standards; secondly, that Australian pensions are paid to certain people who are not Australian citizens. These are most relevant points. 
Let me look at  3  features in the Bill introduced by the Leader of the Opposi tion. The first point is that the Bill applies only to Australian citizens. Most of the migrants who would want to go abroad after they had qualified for an Australian pension are in point of fact not Australian citizens. They have an Australian pension, sure, but I think a figure has been quoted in this House today to the effect that something like one-third of them do not apply for naturalisation. They are not Australian citizens. These are the people who most of all would want to go abroad and spend their declining years in their own countries. They have not taken out Australian citizenship. We do not require people to take out Australian citizenship in order to qualify for pensions and I think that this is right. We say that if they have lived in Australia and contributed to the prosperity of Australia then they should be entitled to go abroad. This is what is in the announcement to the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  which has already been made. But we do not demand that these people should get Australian citizenship. The groups of elderly migrants who would want to go abroad are predominantly those who have not applied for Australian citizenship and therefore this Bill will not help those who are really most in need of this kind of help. 
The Bill fails of its purpose, I believe, through bad drafting. I pay the Leader of the Opposition this compliment and I believe his intentions in this regard were probably good but he did not realise that he was not really helping the people who most needed help in this field. The second point is that this Bill if accepted would give away entirely the bargaining position of the Australian Government to protect the pension rights of people who have acquired them overseas and who have subsequently come to Australia and become Australian citizens. In other words, it dumps some proportion of the migrants. I have instanced certain German pensions as an example but as I have said that is only one example. I do not think that the Leader of the Opposition knew what he was doing in this regard. I am not trying to impute to him a bad motive at all. I am simply saying that if the Bill were adopted it would not put us in the position where we could bargain with overseas governments in order to protect the rights of Australian citizens who were formerly nationals of other countries. But it is the third point which is really important. Let me remind the House first that the requirements for citizenship are fairly short. Somebody from a British Commonwealth country can acquire citizenship here within 12 months, and a citizen of a foreign country can obtain citizenship here within 3 years if he can read and write English. These are the facts as they should be known to the honourable members. 
But what about the period of qualification for pensions? Our agreements provide that the residence of a citizen of the United Kingdom and New Zealand in his own countries before he comes to Australia counts as residence in Australia. So if we adopted this Bill we would find the quite extraordinary position that an elderly couple could come here from the United Kingdom, live here for one year only and return to the United Kingdom, taking an Australian pension with them. They could have a year's holiday in Austrafia and acquire a permanent income for the rest of their lives paid for by the Australian taxpayer. I do not believe that the Leader of the Opposition intended this. It is simply that he was unaware of the complexities of the situation and he got himself into this position. I paid him the compliment of assuming that his proposed new section 83ab was not entirely a treacherous subterfuge to cover up this kind of thing. But this is the kind of absurd situation which could result. I give another example. A divorced woman in the United Kingdom could come to Australia for 12 months, pick up a widow's pension as an Australian citizen and take it to England, Peru, Brazil or wherever she might like to go and live there for the rest of her life drawing a pension from the Australian taxpayer. This is absurd. This is the kind of thing that could happen because the Leader of the Opposition apparently has not thought about where he was going. 
So far as non-British countries are concerned, a citizen of Italy, Germany, Yugoslavia or some other country could, under the Opposition Leader's Bill come here and within 10 years pick up a pension and take it overseas. That is for sure. But if, for example, a divorced woman came here from Yugoslavia she would pick up, under this Bill a pension in 5 years and go away and live on the proceeds for the rest of her life. This is not intended. I am sure the Leader of the Opposition did not mean this. I am sure that he did not understand what he was doing. This is the kind of absurdity which is inherent in this Bill. I could multiply these examples if I had time. I do not intend to take the time of the House because the Government in the course of the next few weeks will be bringing in its own Bill, which will be drawn so as to avoid these pitfalls and which will be free of the kind of absurd consequences which are inherent in the Bill put forward by the Leader of the Opposition. 
I return to what I said at the outset. I have spoken of the Bill, which the honourable member who introduced it did not do, perhaps for good reason. I return to where I commenced. It seems that this Bill is put forward at the present, time in the full knowledge that the Government is to move in this matter in the next few weeks in the House, in the full knowledge that the Government is already moving in this matter in regard to its negotiations with overseas countries so that there will be no delay. We will be cutting down delay to a minimum. I have tried to be kind to the Leader of the Opposition but I must say to him that this Bill appears to me to be rather a bandwagon exercise. 

 Mr WHITLAM (Werriwa- Leader of the Opposition) - I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Parliamentary Counsel but they were denied this service. Mine is a very short Bill. I make no apologies for it. In terms which anyone could read in a couple of minutes it crisply expresses the principle. 
I will just reply to what the honourable gentleman has said. 
Have I leave? 

 - Mr Speaker, T think you were quite right to take notice of the murmur that arose in the House. When I look at the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  I think of Joseph and his coat of many colour*. I can only advise him to look at what all those men with shovels are doing behind him. 
I take your point,  Mr Speaker.  Two serious matters have been raised tonight by the honourable member for Forrest  (Mr Kirwan)  and the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  in relation to social service matters. I will reply very briefly to them. The honourable member for Forrest spoke of the case of an elderly lady living on a farm and the valuation of that farm. Of course, I will be happy to look at this case. But I believe that the honourable member for Forrest is concerned not only with this case but also, very rightly, with this type of case in general. It is an instruction to my Department that where doubt exists as to the valuation of a property a revaluation should be readily obtained as quickly as possible. I know that the honourable member is correct when he speaks of the fact that the accepted old values of farms can no longer be obtained on realisation and that the earning capacity has very often fallen with that fall in value. As I have said, machinery is available for an equitable revaluation. 
If my memory is correct, the honourable member mentioned that the farm had a valuation of $16,000 but that the means as assessed were $26,000. So the lady in question did have some other asset outside the farm. I will not go into the question at present of the operation of the means test. I think that honourable members will know that this whole matter is at present under consideration. However, I point out that this is not a case in which there is tremendous hardship because the other assets in point of fact exist. I say that without prejudice to the general question whether or not some kind of change in approach should be envisaged. I repeat that it would seem to me at first sight that this is not a case in which there is great hardship. However, if the honourable member would like to bring this particular case before me, I can promise him that I will give it the most serious consideration. 
Another point was raised by the honourable member for Corio. He raised a principle in regard to the lowering of the age at which we are asking people to leave their areas if there is no suitable employment available for them in those areas. Let me say, firstly, that my Department does administer this aspect, I believe, with the very greatest discretion. I would like to know if there is a particular case in which that discretion has not been properly applied. I do not think that hardship is occasioned. Secondly, we are looking to the interests of the young people particularly. If there is no prospect of suitable employment in their own home area, it is not good for them to be hanging around doing nothing and, to use the phrase of the honourable member for Corio, sponging on their families. They should not be getting into the bad habit of sponging on their families, or on the Government, if it can be avoided. 
Again it is necessary to look at the interests of these young people. It is a matter of discretion in each case as to where their best interests lie. I agree entirely with the honourable member that, if a suitable avocation can be found for them in or near their home town, they should have every opportunity to express their preference for that particular avocation. But, if it should happen that in the area of their home town, having regard to their own capacity, there is no reasonable prospect of employment, it is in their interests (hat they should not become habituated to sponging on anybody or to living in idleness. They are not compelled in any way to leave the district. All that happens is that it is said that, if they are not willing to take a job, unemployment relief will not be available to them. There is no compulsion on them to accept unemployment relief. 
They are not asked to leave their home unless there is a job for them. Let me make that quite clear. They are not being asked to leave with some vague prospect of getting a job. I know that the honourable member for Corio will agree with me when I say that the real interests of these young people have to be considered first. It is not in their interests that they should be habituated to some kind of idleness and, through inertia, be allowed to be deadended. I again agree with him that it is desirable to build up the country areas. I believe that it is desirable to have employment in the country areas. That, of course, is not a matter which concerns my Department primarily, but it is a matter which I consider is very much to be wished for, hoped for and worked for. However, when no suitable employment is available this kind of opportunity should be given to young people. As 1 have said, they should not be allowed to get into the habit of idleness or into the habit of sponging on anybody. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Darling) (11.34) - Many times I have raised in this House problems which are peculiar to the people in the western division of New South Wales. Only last week I made another extensive tour of the far west corner of New South Wales. It seems to me that the plight of the people in that area has been forgotten or overlooked by both the Federal and New South Wales governments. The people are concerned about, apart from large swarms of grasshoppers in the area, the lack of television coverage, the great number of unemployed and the shocking condition of the roads. But perhaps the greatest concern of all is the lack of education opportunities for the children who live in isolated areas. I visited Brewarrina and the people there were very concerned about the lack of television, unemployment, and the fact that these things were having a bad effect on the Aboriginal population. They informed me that the percentage of alcoholism in the Aboriginal settlement had risen. Another disturbing factor mentioned was that not only males but some females were becoming addicted. 
At Bourke the people were concerned mainly about" the education of children from the isolated areas. I was asked to visit the Church of England hostel which houses about 35 children, both males and females. This hostel is in a very shocking condition and it is marvellous that it has not been condemned. The house certainly is a fire hazard. The laundry is on the back verandah and there is not much shelter or shade out there. The hostel really is in a shocking condition and the Government should look into this matter. 
I moved from Bourke along the Wanaaring Road and at about 9 o'clock at night I arrived at a place called Goombalie to see the secretary of the Isolated Children's Parents Association. A meeting was held at his place at 9 o'clock that night. People came as far as 60 miles to attend this meeting or to ask me what I had been doing to get education facilities for the children who live in this isolated area. It gives honourable members some idea of the seriousness of this problem when people travel so far at night to meet a member of Parliament who happens to be travelling in their area. Moving further along this road towards Wanaaring one travels over the most shocking road in Australia. The holes and the stones on this road have to be seen to be believed. At about 11 o'clock at night we came across the car used by the Bush Nurses, lt was in a ditch with a puncture. We were told that the Bush Nurse had taken a patient that day from Wanaaring to Bourke. On the return journey one of the tyres was punctured and the car was in this ditch from 6 o'clock onwards. It was midnight before a couple of truck drivers, the mail driver and 1 were able to get the Bush Nurse moving again. 
We arrived at Wanaaring after 1.30 in the morning. I want to say something about the purpose of my visit. I went to Wanaaring to present a flag to the public school there. I think it does credit to the children in that area that they all turned up spotlessly clean. Their devotion to the flag drill was outstanding. It was quite clear that they had 2 dedicated and very capable school teachers. While I was there the school teachers asked if anyone had an old piano because there were no musical facilities available at the school. They said that they would make arrangements for it to be picked up on a truck. They said they would like a practice net also so that the children could play cricket. Those people are very honest and sincere. They do not care what political party one belongs to so long as they know that one is sincere. They are prepared to accept members in the right manner. As a matter of fact some of them advised me that I should not keep going round these roads as I had been doing because I would not last very long if I did so. 
On my return home I was surprised to read a report in the 'Pastoral Times' of 10th March which indicated that some Federal members of the Liberal Party were out to create the wrong impression about my activities in the electorate. I want to read part of this report published in that newspaper. It states: 
New South Wales Liberal senator J. I.. Carrick left Wentworth last week after 2 days 'recharging his political batteries'. lt goes on to say: 
It's fair to say this area doesn't get the direct contact wilh State and Federal parliamentarians it deserves- 

 Dr Russell said the party's Wentworth branch hoped to break the area's political isolation and give the people a voice. 1 want to say that if this is the first punch in a political campaign it is doomed to failure because everyone knows that the Darling electorate covers 135,000 square miles and that I have visited every corner of it on many occasions. As far as Wentworth is concerned, an examination of Hansard will show that my voice has been raised on such matters as national water conservation and a constructing authority, the Dried Fruits Research Bill, the Dried Fruit Stabilization Bill, the Sunraysia radio station, the Dried Vine Fruits Levy Bill 1971, the marketing of citrus fruits, and the wine tax. 1 have also taken up such matters as social services, schooling across the border and many other matters. I can produce letters from people from these areas to prove this. I also can produce letters from the Shire  Clerk.  Wentworth is only 3 hours' travelling time from my home. I or my representatives in that area have made it known that I am prepared to visit the area on any occasion that I am wanted. As a matter of fact, there is only one occasion on which I have not been able to go to Wentworth when 1 had promised to be there. This was on an occasion when I was 600 miles away in my electorate at Lightning Ridge and a rainstorm prevented me from travelling. 
There can be no doubt that the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt)  recognises what a problem it is for an honourable member to cover an electorate of that size. The Minister during a debate on the Commonwealth Electoral Bill (No. 2) 1971 is reported at page 1324 of Hansard of the 1st April 1971 as saying: 
You cannot convince me that the people living in Angledool, a village I know well, in the electorate of Darling have the same chance of receiving service from their hardworking member - and he is a hardworking member - as those living in Marrickville. . . . 
During the forthcoming election campaign I will be visiting other electorates. I want to assure the people there that as far as I am concerned there will be no personal attacks because I believe that the Labor Party's policy will stand on its own feet and that this Government will be condemned for the economic crisis in this country. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The welfare of unmarried mothers who continue to care for their children is traditionally  a  matter for State Governments. However, under the States Grants (Deserted Wives) Act the Commonwealth is meeting half the cost of expenditure by the States towards the support of these mothers. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) When introducing the States Grants (Deserted Wives) Bill I said (Hansard, 2nd May 1968, page 1061) - "The determination of eligibility and the rates of assistance will remain the responsibility of each State, but the Commonwealth expects that the existing practice of the States in making individual hardship the test of eligibility for assistance will continue, and that the States will in general raise benefit payments approximately to the level of those payable to a class A widow under Commonwealth legislation.' 
The States in general are providing assistance equivalent to the class A widow's pension but the rate of payment to individual applicants is a matter determined by the State. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Only 2 of the Department's 78 social work positions were unstaffed at 10th March 1972. However, turnover of staff remains a problem; during the period since July 1971 10 social workers have left the Department. 
Among measures adopted to obtain adequate recruits are participation in the cadetship scheme administered by the Commonwealth Service and co-operation with Schools of Social Work in the provision of supervised field work for students. 
Meals-on-Wheels Services (Question No. 5231) 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A meals-on-wheels service conducted by a public hospital may be approved under the Delivered Meals Subsidy Act provided that the hospital is conducted by an eligible organisation as defined in Section 3 (1) of the Act. An organisation which is conducted or controlled by, or by persons appointed by, the Government of the Commonwealth or of a State, is not eligible for approval. 
It is not known how many public hospitals conduct meals-on-wheels services. It is not uncommon, however, for meals-on-wheels organisations to buy the meals they deliver from public hospitals. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Long-term sickness benefit was introduced on 28th September 1970, and from that date until 19th February 1972, there have been 33,744 grants made under the long-term sickness benefit provisions. 
The answer  to  the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) On 30th January the Prime Minister announced proposals to enable pensioners leaving Australia to receive their social service pensions in other countries, and outlined the conditions under which the scheme wouldbe given effect. 
Following the announcement, the Minister for Foreign Affairs informed the Heads of Missions in Canberra representing the main migrant source countries of the Government's decision and advised them of my intention to initiate discussions with a view to concluding negotiations on agreements for reciprocal portability of pensions. The countries concerned in this first approach vere the Netherlands, Denmark, Portugal, Ireland, Austria, France, Spain, Yugoslavia, Italy, Germany, Greece, Malta and Turkey. The British and New Zealand High Commissions were similarly informed. All other Missions in Canberra have been apprised of the Prime Minister's announcement 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Accommodation subsidised under the Aged Persons Homes Act consists mainly of single units. Where double units are included separate building costs are not required and it is not possible therefore to give separate figures for each type of accommodation. 
Figures showing the capital cost of projects were not kept prior to 1968-69 but Table 'A' below shows the average amount of Commonwealth subsidy paid for each aged person's 
It should be noted that from 1954 until 22nd October 1957 subsidy was granted on a SI for $1 basis and thereafter at the rate of $2 for $1. 
 I had not intended to intervene in this debate. I will not keep the House more than a couple of minutes. I think that the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  always has a point when he speaks about freedom of speech. I ask him to look at his own house a little in regard to this matter. I understand that he is closely connected with the trade union movement. 
The left wing of the trade union movement has some deplorable features. It victimises people who speak out against union leadership. It uses strong arm tactics and takes away people's livelihood. The way the trade union movement uses its power against individuals to deny them freedom is absolutely and completely deplorable. I express the hope that the honourable member for Sturt will apply in bis own union the kind of principles which he has been putting before the House this evening. 
My answer to this question might be somewhat lengthy,  Mr Speaker,  and perhaps it will suit the convenience of the House if I seek leave after question time to make a statement. 
The matters referred to in the question arise as an aftermath of the power strike in Victoria. The House will remember that during the strike unemployment benefits were not made available to members of unions that were involved in that strike. Exceptions were made, of course, in the case of members of unions who had been unemployed before the strike commenced, and after the strike had settled down continuity was given to those members of unions who were still unemployed. The principles adopted by the Government were strictly in accordance with the principles laid down in 1947 by the then Labor Government. 
This has been mentioned from time to time by me in the House and some honourable members have doubted the accuracy of what I have said. The honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  only recently in this House said in regard to those statements: 
The Minister has given no proof of it whatsoever. I say tonight categorically that he has made it up and it is completely untrue. 
The honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Kennedy)  in an interjection a few moments ago said 'rubbish' and he has said the same kind of thing on other occasions in the 
House. I think it is proper to put the evidence before the House and to let the House know that what I have said is rot only true but also is established by the necessary documents. In April 1947 a Cabinet sub-committee consisting of the late  Mr Chifley,  the late  Dr Evatt  and  Senator McKenna  came to a decision on this matter. The House will understand that I cannot table the Cabinet minute because even though it is a minute of a former government, Cabinet minutes are regarded as confidential documents. However, I can quote an extract which was the direction given to my Department in April 1947 and which constitutes the instruction on which my Department has operated this matter ever since. The direction states: 
Ministerial direction to be given - 
incorporating Government decision that man not to be disqualified by reason only of refusal to undertake work available through strike or lock-out. 
If class or body of employees, its officers or committee authorise or sponsor a key man strike and members other than key men thrown out of work, no unemployment benefit for those other members. 
If key men without sponsorship of other members, or of the organisation or its officers, go on strike and throw other members out of work - then no benefit to anyone unless - 
organisation disowns key man strike and orders key men back to work; 
organisation orders its other men to be ready to work; 
those other men are willing to work; also - if when those other men return to place of work and refuse to work in conjunction with 'white collar' workers replacing striking key men - then those other men deemed to be on strike. 
Those are the instructions which were recorded in writing and given to my Department in 1947. The matter was raised subsequently and there is on the file a letter dated 12th May 1948 signed by  Senator McKenna,  who was then Minister for Health and Minister for Social Services. It constitutes a direction to my Department and is not a Cabinet document. I will now read it and lay a photostat copy of it on the table of the House. The letter was written on 12th May 1948 to the Director-General of Social Services and stated: 
All Unions represented at the Conference with me in Sydney on 23rd April accepted the prin ciple that the Commonwealth could not permit unemployment benefit to be used for financing strifes. 
I informed the deputation that no hard and fast rule should be laid down to cover cases where a strike of key worker unionists in one industry threw out of work members of the same Union in another industry but that all the circumstances would have to be taken into account, e.g., conduct of the Union and its executives. 
The Prime Minister's'assurance' carries the position no further than this. 
I ask honourable members to listen to the last paragraph: 
The broad principle must be applied that if the sponsorship by a Union of a Key Worker strike causes unemployment the Union and its members whether in the same or another industry must accept responsibility for the natural and foreseeable consequences of their sponsorship. 
I lay on the table a photostat copy of that letter from  Senator McKenna  who was then the Minister in charge, which constituted a direction to this Department. 
In the circumstances I am entitled to apologies from the honourable member for Grayndler and the honourable member for Bendigo. I know that it is not within your province,  Mr Speaker,  to demand such apologies from the honourable memberfor having regard to these documents those apologies should be given now to me by those 2 honourable members who have said in the House that I had no evidence for the statements thatI was making. I have laid the evidence on the table of the House. 
In reply to the second part of the question asked by the honourable member for Chisholm, there is no justification whatsoever for the criticism that has been raised in this place and elsewhere by honourable members that the Government was not adopting correct principles in this matter. The Government has followed principles which were laid down by a preceding Labor Government. It is to the national advantage that nothing should be done to enable unnecessary strikes to be prolonged and so prolong the misery which those strikes occasion. It is not only in this House that mention has been made of this subject. Only recently on 21st March I received a letter from  Mr L.  Carmichael, who is the Commonwealth Assistant Secretary - that is how he signs himself - of the Amalgamated Engineering Union and who is, of course, a Communist of long standing and therefore an enemy of Australia. I want honourable members to listen to this letter and to take note of what it implies. He writes: 
I have, at the request of the Administrative Committee of the Amalgamated Metal Unions, to protest at your recent action in denying Social Service Benefit to members of unions stood down as a result of the dispute in the State Electricity Commission, Victoria. 
The Commonwealth Administrative Committee endorse the views of our members in Victoria that this was an outrageous action and deliberately vindictive. 
I ask honourable members to note the last paragraph, which reads: 
You are advised that the matter has been raised with our fraternal organisation in Great Britain with the request that it be widely publicised in that country and that it be also raised with the International Metal Workers' Federation as a question of denial of social justice. 
Honourable members will see that this man is a communist who is trying to do the maximum damage to Australia and who is not telling the truth, namely, that all that is being done by this Government is in conformity with what was laid down by the preceding Labor Government. I have written to him and said: 
I would deprecate any attempt by you to make propaganda overseas in a way which would react against the interests of Australia, but if you decide to do this I trust that you will make plain the involvement of the preceding Labor Government in this course of action. 
I realise that here we have a communist who is out to rubbish Australia and to do damage to Australia - that is one of his purposes - and that probably what I said in the letter will not, in his eyes, be very persuasive. I just ask the House to consider the way in which there is this parallelism between the propaganda which is put forward in this House by honourable members and the propaganda which is being put forward by an avowed and practising communist. 
Finally let me refer to one other matter. I would like to quote exactly the remarks of the honourable member for Bendigo as recorded on page 1384 of Hansard of 29th March last. The honourable member said: 
The mentality that the Minister reflected in his speech in reply to the honourable member for Corio was precisely that. Nothing is more typical of the union baiting and the arrogance of this Minister- 
That is me - than his statement in reply to the honourable member for Corio, which is recorded on page 1060 of Hansard of 22nd March as follows: 
Let me say quite clearly and definitely that it is the Government's policy that public money should not be used to finance strikes. 
The honourable member for Bendigo said in the House that he regards this as an inflammatory, vindictive and punitive statement. They are the adjectives he applied to it. Yet it is exactly the same - almost word for word - as the letter signed by  Senator McKenna,  which reads: 
All unions represented at the Conference with me in Sydney on 23rd April accepted the principle that the Commonwealth could not permit unemployment benefit to be used for financing strikes. 
I think I am now entitled to a public apology in this House from the honourable member for Grayndler and the honourable member for Bendigo. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
See answer to (1) above. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (3) This dispute was perhaps without precedent in its widespread impact on industry and employment. An unusually high number of unions were involved in the dispute which resulted in a large section of manufacturing and other industry being seriously curtailed or brought to a standstill with increasing numbers of employees being stood down as the dispute continued. 
Notwithstanding this situation, no excessive delay in effecting payment to persons eligible for unemployment benefit occurred. Persons who were unemployed before the strike and persons who remained unemployed after power was restored and industries had resumed work received unemployment benefit payments without delay. Cases in which further inquiries were necessary numbered less than 1,300. 
The answer  to  the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information is contained in the following table: 
The answer to the  honourable  member's question is as follows: 
Since the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Act became fully operative on 1st September 1971, employees covered by the Act may receive rehabilitation treatment either at hospitals or at rehabilitation centres conducted by the Commonwealth Rehabilitation Service. Treatment given at hospitals is included under the general heading 'Medical treatment'. Such cases cannot, therefore, be readily identified for statistical purposes. 
In addition to rehabilitation received as part of medical treatment in hospitals, eleven (11) cases have received or are receiving specialised rehabilitation treatment or vocational training through the Commonwealth Rehabilitation Service. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
There may have been isolated instances where the nature of the criminal offence has been a factor in reaching a decision that the person is unsuitable for admission to a Commonwealth rehabilitation centre. However, records of such cases, which would be very few, are not maintained. If the honourable member has a particular case in mind I would be pleased to have it reviewed. 
Exemption from Motor Vehicle Sales Tax: Disabled Persons  (Question No. 5226) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Numbers of claims under Item 135a for sales tax exemption rejected because not medically eligible: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The numbers of widow pensioners whose applications for training have either lapsed, been withdrawn or rejected are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The staffing position has not permitted the provision of mobile rehabilitation clinics to serve country centres. However, the matter is being kept under review. 
No, but consideration continues to be given to the establishment of rehabilitation clinics in country areas. 
Rehabilitation clinics are designed to permit' eligibility and suitability, for rehabilitation assistance to be assessed locally wherever possible. Although a valuable liaison is established in the area with hospitals, doctors and employers; and local inquiries do help to establish and expedite determination of suitability for rehabilitation assistance, all rehabilitation treatment is carried but in the Departmental Centres operating in the capital cities. Currently there are  26  persons from the Newcastle area undergoing rehabilitation at the Mount Wilga' Rehabilitation Centre, Sydney, and 7 persons from Townsville in the 'Kingshome' Rehabilitation Centre, Brisbane. 
Where the person requires vocational training without the need for Centre treatment, the case is determined locally, as with cases qualifying through the Training Scheme for Widow Pensioners. At present there are 44 rehabilitees and widows training in Newcastle and 9 undergoing training in Townsville. 
The House will recall that the honourable member for Grayndler said that I had no documentary or other evidence to support the statement that the Government was simply following the principles laid down by previous Labor administrations in this regard. The honourable member for Bendigo, in similar vein, spoke of the policy as being punitive and vindictive, and used other extravagant terms. The House will recall that documents were produced in this House which proved the truth of the statement which I had made. I am willing to admit that the honourable member for Grayndler may have made his statement in good faith and in ignorance. Although I know that the practices of the House do not allow me to demand an apology, I would have thought that his canons of ordinary decency would have constrained him to offer mi an apology in this regard. I am disappointed to have to inform the House that I have had no such apology as yet from either the honourable member for Grayndler or the honourable member for Bendigo. 
Thank you; I am obliged to my honourable friend. In regard to the remainder of the question, various similar statements were made outside this House by various persons saying that the Government's policy was vindictive and so on but without appreciating, apparently, that it was based on the principles laid down by a previous Labor administration. I refer particularly to a television interview which I saw, I think, on an Australian Broadcasting Commission programme, if my memory serves me correctly, with the ubiquitous  Mr Hawke  in this regard. I would think that possibly  Mr Hawke,  now knowing the falsity of what he was saying, would be anxious to tender me some apology. He is probably waiting for a chance to do it with the same amount of publicity as was given to his original imputations against me. I would be most happy to appear on television with the said  Mr Hawke  in order to receive his apology, and I am sure that in his state of ignorance, he will be offering it with graciousness. 
 Mr Speaker,  I  wish to  make a personal explanation. 
Yes,  Mr Speaker.  The honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  said that the Government's social services policies were based  on  a decision made 25 years ago. That of course is not true. The Government's social service policies have made immense strides in the last 25 years since the lamentable days of a Labor government. All I said was that our policy in this matter was founded on what the Labor Party had decided when last in office. That was all I said and I stand by it. 1 know that the honourable member for Grayndler is somewhat slow witted. He has had only a fortnight to consider these papers. 
Indeed,  Mr Speaker.  I know the honourable member for Grayndler has had only a fortnight to consider these papers and, with his sharp wit, I hope that he will shortly at least be able to read them. 
The honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Cope)  has raised 3 matters, and I will try to deal with them in reverse order, if I may. In regard to the last case which he mentioned, I must say that I know nothing of this matter personally at the moment, but will most certainly have it specially looked into, as the honourable member has asked. Indeed, I would have done this even if he had not raised it in the House but had come and raised it specially with me. As honourable members know, I am always, or nearly always, available to honourable members from both sides of the House Who have any particular matter to raise about a constituent or some other matter. Nobody would say that there were never cases of justice, and it is within my ministerial prerogative to rectify some of them; some do not come within my ministerial responsibility. But I can assure the honourable member that in this case, and in other cases where something is brought to my attention by any member of this House or of the Senate, I will look specially into the matter. 
The second matter which the honourable member raised referred to supplementary assistance. I think the House might be interested to know that not only he is concerned about this matter; I and the Government also are concerned about it. What he has said is not without substance, and of course it is not without substance particularly in regard to sheltered workshops. Sheltered workshops are not entirely new in this country, but I think that it was only about 5 years ago when they became a recognised part of our social service structure with the introduction of the sheltered workshop allowance. The anomalies in regard to supplementary assistance to which the honourable member has referred are particularly onerous when they relate to sheltered workshops, and I think that what he has said not only merits attention but is already receiving attention. I am hoping that some quite fundamental changes will be made which will obviate the kind of anomaly which the honourable member has, I think quite rightly, drawn to the attention of the House. I can assure him that this matter has already received my attention and is receiving the attention of the Government. 
The third matter which the honourable member raised referred to the payment of unemployment benefits and to what  Senator McKenna  may or may not remember about the past. If I may, I will read the final paragraph of a letter which  Senator McKenna  wrote as a ministerial direction to my Department in this matter on 12th May 1948. A copy of this letter is already available in the papers of the House. I will quote precisely and exactly from the ministerial direction which was given to my Department by  Senator McKenna.  It was under his own personal signature of that date. It states: 
The broad principle must be applied that if the sponsorship by a Union of a Key Worker strike causes unemployment the Union and its members whether in the same or another industry -  and these are the words I emphasise - 
. must accept responsibility for the natural and foreseeable consequences of their sponsorship. 
This is in regard to the non-payment of unemployment benefits in a strike situation. The then Minister,  Senator McKenna,  said whether in the same or another industry'. That is the ministerial direction which he gave to my Department and which has been acted on. I am sure that the honourable member for Sydney was not personally aware of this because I am afraid that it entirely contradicts the interpretation which he gave. 
I am sorry about that. All I have is  Senator McKenna's  direction in writing to my Department, of which he was then the ministerial head, and a copy of that direction is available for all honourable members to see. I can assure honourable members that I am trying to be fair and reasonable in this matter, and I am trying to quote, as far as I can, from documents which substantiate the practices which have been carried out in my Department in this regard during the time of the Labor government and ever since. 
1 move: 
That  the  Bill  be now  read a  second  time. This Bill will make it possible to pay certain Australian pensions overseas. It applies equally to people who were born in Australia and to those who have settled in Australia; in line with our other pension legislation, it makes no distinction between those settlers who have formally acquired Australian citizenship and those who have not. It may be helpful if, at the outset, I remind the House of the events which led up to the introduction of this Bill. The matter had been under consideration for sometime before, in December 1969, an interdepartmental committee was set up to examine the complex issues involved. The report of that committee came to hand last November. In December I made my detailed recommendation to Cabinet and this was approved in January. Immediately afterwards, the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  made the public announcement of the Government's intention. The Bill now before the House is in conformity with that announcement, and is framed so as to give it legislative effect. 
The Bill now before us provides that the Minister may enter into an agreement with other countries, which, while any such agreement is in force, become 'participating countries'. The pensions with which the Bill deals may be paid to Australian pensioners who go to reside, whether permanently or temporarily in those other countries, or who are travelling with reasonable expedition between them and Australia, or, indeed between any two participating countries. 
In return, the participating country will be expected to make its own pensions available to its former residents now in Australia or who are travelling to Australia. It will be realised that the social security systems of various countries differ from one another and differ from our Australian system in different ways, so that no firm rule can be set for the details of these agreements; each one will have to be drawn up in terms of the mutual relationship of our Australian system to that of the participating country. 
The Australian pensions concerned are, in broad terms, age, invalid and widows' pensions. The residence qualification for portability overseas will be 20 years after reaching the age of 16; but there will be no residence qualification required for this portability in the case of invalid pensions arising from a disease or injury contracted in Australia by a permanent resident, or in the case of widows' pensions, where the husband's death occurred while the couple were permanently resident in Australia. Portability will extend to the pensioner's wife's allowance, and also to the special pension payable for 12 weeks after the death of a member of a married couple. 
I will not, at this stage, take up the time of the House by describing in detail the provisions of the Bill, but rather I would like to set out 3 of the considerations which were in the mind of the Government in drafting it. 
First, we wanted to ensure that the benefits given shall be available irrespective of whether or not the holder of the Australian pension was an Australian citizen. We wanted to give portability to those who have worked in the Australian community irrespective of whether or not they had become formally naturalised. Indeed, we realised that the benefits would be of special concern to those who, although they had lived and worked in Australia, retained sufficient ties with their homeland to make them desire to retain their original nationality. A Bill which confined the benefits to 'Australian citizens' would fail to help those very persons who would be most desirous of that help. One of the defects - by no means the only defect - of the Bill on this subject recently presented to the House by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  - if I may say so, with respect, an incompetent Bill which scarcely reflects the legal talents which one would have expected my honourable and learned friend to have displayed - was that it was entirely confined to 'Australian citizens', and thus constituted a slap in the face for some of the most hard-working and worthy of our migrants. 
Second, we wanted to ensure in negotiation the greatest possible reciprocal benefits for migrants from other countries who live in Australia. In some cases, their original countries of residence allow them to bring their pensions with them, but this is by far from true in all cases. If we simply grant portability of Australian pensions overseas, without getting anything for our settlers in return - as was, for example, proposed in the maladroit Bill of the Leader of the Opposition to which I have referred - then we throw these settlers to the wolves. The Government does not propose to do this. Instead we propose to press their interests as far as possible in negotiating the new agreements. Naturally, I can give no commitment as to what I can achieve in these negotiations with other countries. The circumstances may well differ in relation to different countries. But I can give an unequivocal assurance to these former residents of other countries who now live amongst us that, in my negotiations with their former homeland, I will press their interests to the uttermost. 
Third, we wanted to protect the interests of the Australian taxpayer against abuse of the new provisions not, of course, by persons who are at present resident in Australia, but by people who might in the future come to Australia for the express purpose of taking advantage of these concessions. We are all Australian taxpayers if we are permanently resident here, whether we are Australian born, or whether we came originally from overseas; and all of us, including migrants, have an interest in seeing that the Australian Treasury is not thus pillaged. We all know that this kind of thing can happen - for example, the way in which people flocked to the United Kingdom in their thousands as temporary visitors in order to take advantage of medical benefits for such things as expensive operations which used to be available there without charge. We do not want the position where a person can come here for a short time, qualify for an Australian pension, and take it back home with him without having really contributed to the prosperity and progress of Australia. 
Indeed, this is the principle which migrants themselves have endorsed in their journals: They say, very rightly, that those who have earned their pension by their contribution to the Australian scene should, by virtue of that contribution, have the right to take their pension home, lt is for this reason that, with the exceptions for invalids and widows, we have prescribed a qualifying period of 20 years - which is more generous, for example, than what is done in Canada, where the qualifying period is 25 years for portability of the old age security pension. 
I do not want to take up the time of the House by more than a side reference to the egregious errors with which the Leader of the Opposition's Bill was loaded, but I think 1 should point out to the House that, on the face of it, under his Bill, a citizen of the United Kingdom or New Zealand could come to Australia, live here for 12 months, collect an Australian pension as for age or invalidity - or indeed, as a widow, divorcee or deserted wife - and take it abroad and live for the rest of his or her life at the expense of the Australian taxpayer. I will not weary the House by a full catalogue of his absurdities in this regard. 
It would have been possible, of course, to carry out the Government's intention to make pensions payable abroad by agreements made by regulation under the provisions of section 1 37 of the existing Social Services Act. There were 2 main reasons why we did not adopt this course. Firstly, we thought that it was inappropriate that a major policy change of this nature should be made by regulation. It was, we believed, proper to bring it before the Parliament as a Bill. Secondly, it was desired to strengthen as far as possible the negotiating position of the Minister in his endeavour to obtain the maximum reciprocal benefit for settlers from other countries who live in Australia. 
May I make it clear to the House that the procedure we have adopted need not impose any additional delays. As soon as the Prime Minister made his January announcement, I, with the assistance of the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen),  made contact with relevant diplomatic representatives in Canberra. We have supplied them with details of our relevant pension programmes and have asked them to obtain for us full details of their own countries' arrangements in return. I have already received encouraging replies from the representatives of a number of these countries and some discussions have taken place. I would hope and expect that well before the commencement of the next sittings, negotiations will be concluded with a large number of these countries, including those which are most important from the viewpoint of our migrants. 
The Bill before the House, while not confined to migrants, is the latest of a series of measures introduced by this Government to assist migrants who have need of Australian social security in their widowhood, ill health or old age. For example, since 1966 there has been no nationality requirement for an Australian pension, while the residence qualification for age pension was halved, in 1962, from 20 years to 10 years. The residence qualification was removed altogether in 1968 for a claimant for a widow's pension who was residing permanently in Australia with her husband when she became a widow. In 1969, the period for which pensions may be paid in respect of a temporary absence from Australia was extended from 12 to 30 weeks. All these conditions are generous by any standard for non-contributory pensions. 
Finally, let me reiterate that the new provisions apply equally to all migrants, whether naturalised or not, as well as to all Australians whether or not they are migrants. Australians travelling abroad to participating countries' will be able to take their pensions with them, if they so desire. At present, of course, they can, on their return to Australia, get payment for up to 30 weeks of absence overseas under the provisions of sections 49 and 78 of the Act, and there are special arrangements in force in regard to Britain and New Zealand. Under this Bill, it will be possible for Australian pensioners overseas in participating countries, or in transit, to continue to draw their pension entitlements. I should, of course, emphasise that the right of continuance of a pension overseas will only be the same right as would exist if the pensioner remained resident in Australia. Thus, for example, if the recipient of a widow's pension remarried overseas, her pension would automatically cease. 
The pensioner medical service will, of course, continue to be available only in Australia, as will the concessions provided in respect of radio and television licences and telephone rentals. Pensioners overseas will not receive supplementary assistance as the eligibility conditions could not properly be applied. Funeral benefits are at present payable to, or in respect of, pensioners temporarily absent from Australia, including those receiving pensions under our reciprocal agreements with Britain and New Zealand. These benefits will also be available for pensioners receiving their pensions under the arragements proposed in this Bill. 
While the provisions of the Bill may result in more Australian pensioners going overseas, the agreements to be made will have the corresponding result of encouraging more people entitled to overseas pensions to take up residence in Australia, or to visit us here. On balance, the net flow may well be equalised - it is not possible to predict this with certainty, although it is reasonably clear that the tourist flow will be increased in both directions. This is a Bill which can benefit both natural-born Australians, and the migrants who have come here to settle. I commend it to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Whitlam)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A person who had attained the age of 21 years prior to commencing to receive approved training would not be a 'handicapped child' within the meaning of the Handicapped Children (Assistance) Act and would therefore not come within the provisions of that Act. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The training scheme for widow pensioners is available to any widow in receipt of a Class A or Class B widow's pension. It was introduced in September 1968 for the purpose of assisting widow pensioners who wished to do so, to equip themselves to undertake full or part-time employment. There is no compulsion  on  a recipient of a widow's pension to undergo training or to accept employment on its completion. 
It was never expected that large numbers of widows would seek training under the scheme for a variety of reasons including family commitments, slate of health, age, availability of suitable training or the fact that the widow may prefer to use a previously acquired skill when this is permitted by her domestic situation. 
The number receiving training and also the number who have entered employment and relinquish their pension on completion of training have exceeded the Government's earlier expectations. 
All widows in receipt of Class A or Class B pensions, are eligible to apply for acceptance through the Training Scheme for Widow Pensioners. 
The number of widow pensioners eligible to apply were: 
(2) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Section 5 of the National Welfare Fund Act, 1943-52, appropriates moneys required to pay age pensions and associated allowances at the rates authorised by the Social Services Act 1947- 72. The amount required in 1971-72 for this purpose has been estimated as $674m of which approximately $65 7m is expected to be spent on age pensions, exclusive of wife's allowance, children's allowance and other ancillary benefits. (2)At 30th June 1971, the numbers were as follows - 
(i) 236,112 
394,353 
(i) 74,658 
102,588 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is not possible to determine the additional cost of paying Australian, age, invalid and widows' pensions and other benefits overseas under the arrangements proposed in the Bill introduced into the House on 13rd April 1972. The eventual cost will depend on a number of factors which cannot now even be guessed at. 
Some additional costs will arise in respect of pensioners who would have left Australia permanently even if there were no provision for payment overseas; and in respect of pensioners temporarily absent from Australia for periods in excess of 30 weeks. However, we do not know how many countries will conclude reciprocal agreements for portability of pensions, or the number of pensioners who will be affected. 
On the other hand, some savings will result from the fact that Australian fringe and allied benefits (e.g. the Pensioner Medical Service  and  nursing home benefits) will not be available  to  pensioners overseas. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Social Services Act requires a person, in order to qualify for an invalid pension, to be permanently incapacitated  for  work to the extent of  at  least 85 per cent, or permanently blind. These criteria apply to both male and female, and have  been the  basis  of  eligibility since the introduction  of  invalid pensions. 
The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
The following local government bodies have received grants under the Aged Persons Homes Act since 6th May 1971. 
New South Wales - 
Oberon Shire Council 
Victoria- 
Sandringham City Council 
Traralgon City Council 
Queensland - 
Cairns City Council 
Mareeba Shire Council 
Murweh Shire Council 
I present the fol lowing petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament asembled the petition of the undersigned electors of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That on December 10, 1948, Australia signed the 'Universal Declaration of Human Rights', Article 25 reads: 'Everyone has the right to security in the event of unemployment, sickness, disability, widowhood, old age and other lack of livelihood in circumstances beyond his control.' 
Yet, 23 years later, in our country of great national wealth and abundance it is to the nation's shame that many thousands of our people live in a state of being inconsistent with the dignity and worth of the human person - languishing in poverty and want, neglect and the lack of proper care necessary for their health and well-being. 
We, the undersigned, respectfully draw to your attention that the conscience of the nation is not at ease while the records of our country show that social services are not comparable with that of other advanced countries administering such services, therefore, we call upon the Commonwealth Government to immediately legislate for: 
Base pension rate - 30 per cent of the average weekly male earnings, all States, plus supplementary assistance and allowances based on a percentage of such earnings. Unemployed benefits equal to the foregoing. 
Completely free health services to cover all needs of social service pensions - hospitalisation, chronic and long-term illness, fractures, anaesthetics, specialist, pharmaceutical, hearing aids, dental, optical, physiotherapy, chiropody, surgical aids and any other appliances. 
Commonwealth Government to promote a comprehensive national scheme in cooperation with the States and make finance available to provide for the building of public hospitals, nursing and hostel-type homes necessary to effectively meet the special requirements of aged people, in conjunction with a comprehensive domicilliary care programme to enable aged people to stay in their homes. 
Mental illness placed in the same position as physical illness. 
Substantial Commonwealth increase in the $5 subsidy a day per public bed pensioner patient in general hospitals. 
Ten per cent of Commonwealth revenue to local government for general activities which now include social welfare, health, conservation and other community needs. Commonwealth subsidy for the waiving of rates for pensioners. 
Commonwealth Government to increase the non-repayable grant to the States for low rental home units for pensioners. 
Royal Commission or other form of public enquiry into Australia's social welfare structure that Australia may be brought into line with accepted world standards of the most advanced countries. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Similar petitions were presented by  Dr Everingham, Mr Sherry, Dr Jenkins, Mr Hansen, Mr Scholes, Dr Cass, Mr Stewart  and  Mr Keith  Johnson. 
Petitions severally received. 
I move: 
That  the Bill be now  read a second time. In his speech on the economy on 11th April, the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  announced increases in age, invalid and widows' pensions, long-term sickness benefits and sheltered employment allowances. This Bill will give effect to this announcement. It is proposed to increase the standard rate of pension by $1 a week, and the married rate by 75c a week. The new maximum standard rate of pension will be $18.25 a week, and the maximum rate of pension for married persons and widows without dependent children will now be $16 a week. These increases will flow on to rehabilitation allowances, sheltered employment allowances and service pensions. Long-term sickness benefits payable to adults and other persons qualified for the adult rate of benefit will rise by $1 to $18.25 a week. The rate payable to unmarried minors will rise by 75 cents to $12 a week. 
The House will recall that, for reasons associated with the need for economic restraint, the pension increases granted in April and October last year were confined to those pensioners who were receiving pensions at, or close to, the maximum rate. In view of the changing economic climate it is now possible to provide, in addition to the general increases just mentioned, further increases to those pensioners who did not receive any increase; or received only a part increase, in April and October 1971, to restore their relativity with other pensioners. This will mean that a single person without property affecting his position will retain some pension entitlement until his income reaches $46.50 a week. A single pensioner without other income will be eligible to receive some pension until the value of his non-exempt property reaches $24,580. For a married pensioner couple, the equivalent limits of income and property will be $81 a week and $42,920 respectively. 
A Class 'A' widow with one child and with no property affecting will now be able to receive income of up to $67.50 before losing her pension entitlement, or up to $71.50 if her child is under 6 years of age or is an invalid. If she has no income, a Class A widow with one child may own property to the value of $30,340 or $32,420 if her child is under 6 or an invalid, before her pension entitlement is extinguished. Thus, apart from assisting existing pensioners, these proposals will enable some people, who are at present excluded from pension entitlement, to become eligible for the first time. More than a million pensioners will benefit under the legislation before the House,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I ask for leave to incorporate in 'Hansard' a short table showing the numbers of pensioners who will receive increases, classified according to the amount of increase. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Estimates and expenditure of the Department are maintained under the Treasury accounting system which does not include costing on a programme basis for this Department. The duties of many staff members, particularly in regional offices, cover functions related to the whole range of the Department's activities. Because of this, costing on a functional basis would be relatively expensive, would require significant additional staff and would not contribute materially to the Department's main administrative objective of progressive improvement in the standard of service to pensioners and other clients. Mainly for these reasons proposals for the introduction of costing on a functional or programme basis as supplementary to Treasury accounting has been deferred in favour of strengthening staff more directly concerned with providing service to the public. 
In 1970-71 administrative expenditure of the Department was approximately 2 per cent of expenditure on benefits when payments to various beneficiaries amounted to $l,I32m and administrative costs were $23.9m. 
Cultural Agreement with Indonesia  (Question No. 5512) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A widower in the circumstances described by the honourable member who is paying rent or board and lodging could, in addition to his age pension, qualify for supplementary assistance and receive, fortnightly, a pension cheque for $38.50. He would thus be in a position to make a material contribution towards the household expenses. 
The question as to whether the daughter is qualified for special benefit would be determined in the light of the adequacy of the son-in-law's income to provide for the reasonable maintenance of himself and his family. 
Committee on Overseas Professional Qualifications  (Question No. 5522)  Mr Whitlam  asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
Will he bring up-to-date his answer on the meetings and publications of the Committee on Overseas Professional Qualifications (Hansard, 21st April 1971, page 1852 and 8th September 1971, page 981). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) I refer the honourable member to my statement of 11th April 1972, Hansard, page 1403-1405. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The survey referred to was carried out in March 1971 and results were published in the Annual Report of the Director-General of Social Services, 1970-71- pages 52-56. 
HMAS 'Warrnambool'  (Question No. 5576) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The age pension rates announced by the Treasurer on 11th April 1972 will represent: 
in the case of a single person, 19.1 per cent of average weekly earnings; and 
in the case of a married pensioner couple, 33.5 per cent of average weekly earnings. 
Average weekly earnings referred to above are those of an adult male for the latest period available, the December Quarter of 1971. Because of seasonal factors, average weekly earnings in the December Quarter are normally higher than those in the following March Quarter and those in the preceding September Quarter. The proposed pension as a proportion of seasonally adjusted average weekly earnings for the December Quarter of 1971 would be 20.0 per cent in the case of a single person and 3S.1 per cent for a married pensioner couple. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Statistics are not maintained in a form which would show the number of age pensions reduced because the sale of a pensioner's home resulted in an increase in that pensioner's property for pension assessment purposes. The information requested could be obtained only by an examination of nearly 1 million individual files. A project of this magnitude is beyond the present resources  of  the Department. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Some 12,000 claims were received but only 5,776 applicants lodged the prescribed income statement which is also a pre-requisite to payment of benefit. Of the 5,776 effective claims, 4454 were rejected, 1285 were approved and 38 are still outstanding awaiting a response from the applicants to a request for further information. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Please see my Press statement of 15th March 1972 copies of which are available in the Parliamentary Library. 
3,981 claims were rejected on the grounds that the applicants were members of a Union participating in or sponsoring a strike which resulted in their unemployment and 473 claims were rejected on other grounds. 
By an examination of the applications for unemployment benefit and supporting papers. 
(a) 3,996 
Fifteen appeals were upheld on review. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1,574 
(a) 1,285 
251 
38 (awaiting replies from applicants) 
, (4) and (5) The recent Victorian power strike was unparalleled in its impact on industry and the stand-down of employees which created a situation where it was not practicable to obtain from the applicants the information usually required to determine eligibility for benefit where unemployment was related to a current industrial dispute. Thus the situation referred to was without precedent from the point of view of lodgment and processing of unemployment benefit claims. 
Yes, my attention was drawn to this statement by the Anglican bishop, Bishop Hulme-Moir. It seemed to me that the statement did require some examination from me because I thought that a person in this circumstance should be drawing at least $70 a week. I thought that perhaps here was a pensioner who was not aware, of his rights and was not getting what he was entitled to because he had not made the correct application. So I got in touch with the Bishop who was good enough to give me the name of the pensioner concerned. Of course, I will not reveal his name to the House. I had inquiries made and I found that he was actually receiving from my Department not $42 but $72.75 a week, which was to go up to $73.75 this week because of the pension rise. 
I want to make it quite clear that I do not in any way consider Bishop HulmeMoir responsible foi- this misinformation. 
Also I want to make it clear that I am not complacent and I do not believe that there is no poverty. I just mention to the House that this particular case seems to have been brought forward under some kind of misconception. But I do commend the Church's concern with poverty. I commend particularly such societies as the Brotherhood of St Laurence and the Society of St Vincent de Paul which I come across from time to time in the exercise of my responsibility as the Minister for Social Services. I suggest that we should look at the facts as they are brought forward and not exaggerate them, but I repeat that the Government is not complacent and understands that there are still cases of quite genuine poverty. 
Yes, my attention has been directed to these suggestions which have been made by various bodies. My first reaction was that an across the board inquiry would not be as useful as an inquiry in depth, particularly as there were certain difficulties about setting it up. But I have had a consultation with the Prime Minister on this matter and I am recommending to the Cabinet that such an inquiry should be considered. You will remember,  Sir, that  there have been similar inquiries in regard to the repatriation system and the health system in Australia. I think it might be useful at this stage if we had an inquiry into our social services, particularly since it would give some kind of bench mark which would show the progress that has been made under this Government and that, although poverty still exists in Australia, it has been considerably diminished. The important thing would be that any inquiry held would be directed towards some practical result and would help us in the further improvement of our already much improved social services. 
If the Leader of the Opposition will do me the honour of looking at what I said I think he will see that at that stage I made no promise to the House. What I did say was that I would give consideration to the matter, which I have done. The Government also has given consideration to this matter and in due course the result of that consideration will be announced to the Leader of the Opposition and to other people. 
 The speech of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  has been, I think. typical and transparent. He is out to get votes and he does not care how he kicks people around in order to get them. He does not care who he rubbishes. He is entirely without heart in these matters. He is too calculating altogether, and I think it is pretty obvious to this House. and indeed to the people, what he is up to. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! There are too many interjections. I point out that the Leader of the Opposition was heard, 1 think, in relative silence. The Minister is entitled also to be heard in silence. I ask for the co-operation of the House. 
I can understand the attitude of members of the Opposition who want to cover up for their Leader. The Leader of the Opposition was proceeding on the assumption that there was not going to be an inquiry. I think he will find that that assumption is a false one. The Government would be concerned not only to have an inquiry but also to have an inquiry which is likely to lead to some practical result. We would look at these social problems as something which we have to study for the purpose of helping people in need, not just as a political exercise. The Leader of the Opposition quoted Professor Henderson on poverty. I think I should read to the House a letter which Professor Henderson wrote to the London Times' just 12 months ago.I ask the House to consider this. Professor Henderson said: 
I might add that our poverty line is considerably higher than the supplementary assistance standard generally accepted as the poverty line in Britain. In spite of that, the proportion 'in poverty' in Australia is at 5 per cent, much lower than in Britain. This is due to a much higher minimum wage which lifts nearly all earners' families out of poverty, as well as rather more generous pensions. 
In contrast to . . . statement that 'distribution of wealth in Australia is among the most inequitable in the civilised world', it is our judgment that the incidence of poverty in Australia is lower than in any country in the world with the  possible exceptions of New Zealand and the Scandinavian countries, and that the distribution of wealth and income is more equitable than in any other country with the same possible exceptions 
These are the words of someone who is, in many respects, a critic of the Government. But they are the words of an honest man who is not trying to rubbish Australia. We have heard figures quoted as to the proportions spent on social services, but the proof of the pudding is in the eating. Poverty in Australia is less than in practically any other country and the distribution of wealth is more equitable. Now do not let me give the impression that I believe that there is nothing further to be done and that everything is perfect. I do not have that impression. I know that there is still poverty here, although it is a lessening degree of poverty. The assistance that the Government has given has confined the islands of poverty into a much narrower compass, but there is still poverty. 
I turn now to the question of an inquiry. One of the troubles about an inquiry is that many of the worst instances of poverty lie in the States' sphere rather than in the Commonwealth sphere because it is the State that is responsible for giving emergency relief. I believe that this is something which should be considered. It is a very proper subject for inquiry. On 5th June of this year there will be a meeting in Brisbane of the State Ministers, and myself as Commonwealth Minister, to consider these matters. I believe that if there is an inquiry - and I think there should be an inquiry, and there will be one - it should be directed to the relationship between the State and Federal functions, because there is a falling down, and this falling down is mainly in regard to what the States should be doing; what is in their field rather than in the Federal field. It may be that we should re-align responsibility in these fields. This is a very proper subject for an inquiry. It may be that the Commonwealth should take over some functions from the States, or it may be that the States should expand their own machinery and functions. As I say, this is a very proper field in which to hold an inquiry. I would agree that there would be value in holding such an inquiry, but it does not seem to me that an inquiry spread over the whole field is likely to give such good and practical results. We are thinking in terms rather of an inquiry in depth into certain aspects. I would not say that this would necessarily rule out an overall inquiry, because that may be necessary in order to set the framework. But if one is looking for practical results it is an inquiry in depth into specific parts of the field which is likely to be useful and to give results which are practical in the sense that they will relieve the remaining or residual bit of poverty in Australia. 1 remind the House of the way in which poverty, although it still exists, has been decreased, and the assistance that has been given by the Government. Let us look at the position which existed, say, when this Government came into office in 1949 and what has been done since. Again I do not want to give the impression that we have come to the end of the road. To use the expression of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon),  this is always, I think he said, unfinished business, and it always will be, because however far we advance there is always something more to be done. 
Let us consider the position of the age pensioner. In terms of purchasing power - in terms of what can be bought - the pension is something like 70 per cent higher today than it was in 1949. More can be bought with the money today. If one adds the supplementary assistance which, of course, did not exist then - it was introduced in 1953, if I remember correctly - the increase is greater still. This is not just the measure of the improvement which has been made. In earlier days there were no nursing benefits and no proper pensioner medical services and there was virtually no system of domiciliary care. 
Most old people who did not own their own homes were living in misery in rented rooms under very poor conditions. Of course, there are still people living in rented rooms under poor conditions, but there is only a tiny fraction of what there used to be. There are now aged person's homes, Housing Commission aged persons' units and dwellings for aged persons, which is a scheme administered through the Department of Housing. With all these improvements we have not eliminated entirely the problem, but we have divided it. Because we have taken away the pressure on those in rented accommodation, they are now much better off, on the whole, than they would have been. 
Let us not run away with the idea that there is nothing further to be done; of course there is, but on the other hand let us not forget what has been done and how much has been accomplished. I think, for example, of the position of the widow with children. This is one of the areas where I, and I think the Government, would hope that there would be some further advance still. Today the widow with children not only has a higher basic pension but in addition she receives child allowances which were only nominal under the Labor Government or virtually did not exist. She gets a mother's allowance which did not exist at all under the Labor Government. I think the allowance is $6 a week for one child under 6, S4 otherwise, and $4.50 for every other child. What was the allowance under Labor? I think it was something like $1.50 for the first child and nothing for any other children. We should not have the idea that the widow is always in easy circumstances or anything like that, but we should at least be fair and realise the degree of improvement. We should not do what the Leader of the Opposition tried to do, namely, to rubbish Australia and say that everything in Australia is wrong. Here in Australia we are doing more than practically any other country - not enough perhaps, and we can do more. As Professor Henderson said, poverty in Australia is less than in practically any other country. I think, too, of the raising of the means test. Under Labor, people who had assets did not get pensions. The means test was very fierce. 
It is not nearly as fierce as it was. With the merged means test, the tapered means test and the other things that have been done there, have been tremendous advances. I would not by any means come to the conclusion that these advances have stopped. These are the improvements which have taken place. 
I reiterate that I, for one, think that there could be a good result from having an inquiry. In my view the inquiry might perhaps be wide ranging in order to give a framework. But the real point of the inquiry would be something in depth directed towards the remaining areas of real need. There has to be co-ordination in this field between the States and the Commonwealth. In my view the greatest deficiency at the present moment lies in the lack of co-ordination between the State systems and the Commonwealth system. The State systems deal on a personal basis with people in emergency - with the kind of ca se which does not go by the book, lt is for such cases that institutions like the Brotherhood of St Laurence and the St Vincent de Paul Society exist; they are able to give help which is not given by the book. The State also has a function here, because in a way the State is nearer to the people than we are here in Canberra. It can therefore give personal services. If one looks at the case histories which were incorporated in Hansard by the Leader of the Opposition a few moments ago one will find that nearly every one of them concerns something which lies in the State sphere rather than in the Commonwealth sphere. It may be that there is a wrong allocation of functions as between the States and the Commonwealth. It seems to me. that this is one of the things, perhaps the chief thing, to which the inquiry could be most profitably directed. The Government is out to continue its policy of improving social services. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! The Minister's time has expired. 
At question time today I indicated that this question of an inquiry was going before Cabinet. Why should the Opposition think that it has the right to take the business of government out of our hands like this? This is grandstanding in excelsis. 
I do not think that I should add anything more. As I have said, this appears to be grandstanding inexcelsis. I move: 
That the question be now put. 

<graphic href="078131197205106_27_1_3_P.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="078131197205106_27_1_2_N.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="078131197205106_27_1_1_A.jpg"></graphic>

Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Question put: 
That the motion  (Mr  Hayden's) be agreed to. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
All States provide assistance to various categories of women with children and subsequently claim reimbursement of proportionate amounts from the Commonwealth under the provisions of the States Grants (Deserted Wives) Act. It has been the practice to minimise the administrative costs of the States by keeping claim procedures as simple as possible. As a consequence it is not possible to provide details of expenditure in terms of each category of applicant. Commonwealth expenditure in the years concerned is set out in the following table and after Commonwealth reimbursements are deducted State expenditure is approximately equal to the amountspaid by the Commonwealth. However, it should be noted that the States lodge claims quarterly in arrears and at 30th June 1971, the June quarter claims had not been received from the States. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Contact has been made with the diplomatic representatives in Canberra of the countries of Austria, Denmark, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Malta, Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, Turkey and Yugoslavia. 
Encouraging replies have been received in regard to negotiations from the representatives of Germany, Greece, Italy, Malta, Portugal and Spain. Representatives of other countries are awaiting instructions from the home Governments. 
I think the honourable member is aware of the implications of the standing order he has quoted. The petitions have been referred to my department and the pensioners association also has consulted and spoken with me about them. I can assure the honourable member that matters of policy of this character will be most earnestly considered by the Government in their proper context and at the proper time. The matters raised are obviously ones which affect major budgetary considerations and it would be improper for me at the present moment to  say more than that they are being sympathetically considered in the whole of the Budget context. 
I ask for leave to make a personal explanation. 
I want to intervene briefly in this matter because it seems to be highlighted in the debate on this clause that the Opposition has quite misunderstood the main impact of this Bill and the main intentions behind it. I noticed this earlier in the debate in regard to the sanctions clause, but the same kind of thing is coming out now. Surely what we are trying to do is to protect the men against the tyranny of the union machine. One would have thought that the Opposition, if it had readily been on the side of the men, would have been very glad for this kind of provision to operate. The members of the unions are terrified by the use of the concerted union machinery to create anarchy in the community as a whole. They want the Government to provide them with some protection against trade union tyranny. 
One would have thought that the Opposition would have been welcoming this clause, if the interjection of my honourable friend is to be taken at its face value. If the provision in the Act is good already one would have thought that the Opposition would have welcomed this clause which would make it better. But the Opposition does not do that. I am afraid that it is not really concerned with the interests of the men. It is concerned with the interests of the. union officials. It is concerned with maintaining the coherence of the trade union machine which can become - it is not always so - a tyranny over its members. The members of the unions are naturally looking to the Government to protect them against the tyranny of trade union officials, and that is what this Bill is all about. 
Question put: 
That clause 19 be agreed to. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) As from 1st January 1972 the pensioner medical service entitlement card previously in use was replaced with a card which is renewed annually. 
Although the durability of the new type of card should be adequate to withstand normal wear and tear, the use of plastic covers for added protection has been under consideration for some time. Samples are at present being examined within the Department to determine the most suitable type of cover which could be used for a general issue to eligible pensioners. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Total Commonwealth expenditure under the Aged Persons Homes Act, from the introduction of the Act in 1954 to 30th April 1972, was $128,164,000. Grants approved but not drawn total $15,828,000 in respect of projects in course of construction and disbursement of this amount is being made in instalments upon lodgment of certified statements of expenditure by the organisations concerned. Treasury accounting procedure does not provide for the recording of expenditure by electoral divisions consequently the information sought in this regard is not readily available. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The situationin this regard was explained in my Second Reading Speech on the States Grants (Deserted Wives) Act on 2nd May 1968 (see Hansard, page 1060). 
Under arrangements with the States, provision is made for assistance up to the rate of widow's pension to be given to a single mother caring for her child. However, the assistance granted in any particular case is a matter for determination by the State authorities. Along with other matters, this arrangement will be listed for discussion by Ministers at the meeting mentioned by the honourable member, , 
I am not aware of this case. This is the first that I have heard of it. I will have it examined. I cannot give any commitment beyond that. As the House will realise, the Commissioner is, very rightly, independent of ministerial control. But I will have the matter looked at, with particular reference to where the responsibility lies in this case. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There is no general waiting period; priorities are determined on a case basis in each State by the Senior Medical Officer. The main considerations are the nature of the disability, the relative need for early rehabilitation assistance and the facilities available at the time of referral, having regard to the existing caseload, at the particular rehabilitation centre. 
After negotiations with the Public Service Board, the Department agreed to reduce its initial request for ten additional doctors' positions to six. The Public Service Board has agreed to the increase of six positions, which will bring the number of doctors' positions in the Rehabilitation Service to fourteen. However, action to fill these positions cannot be finalised until certain legal formalities associated with their creation are completed by the Commonwealth Department of Health, in which Department doctors' positions are currently established. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: _ The Department's initial proposal for ten additional doctors' positions included four which would provide a point of entry for doctors wishing to specialise in physical medicine within the Rehabilitation Service. Only one of these positions has been approved at this stage. 
In the light of experience with this position the Department may consider requesting the Public Service Board to review again the need to provide additional positions of this type. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Fifty-eight (58) grants have been made to date under the provisions of the States Grants (Home Care) Act, to help meet the cost of constructing or extending senior citizens' centres, as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is not the policy of the Government to give information on these matters, which concern advice to Ministers and arrangements between Ministers and their advisers. 
I understand that it is the case that in New South Wales some houses from the Housing Commission are available at the price which the honourable member has mentioned. But I think that the House and the country will realise the tremendous strides that have been made towards accommodation of pensioners under this Government. I remind the House that our aged persons homes legislation, for example, is now giving accommodation to not quite 45,000 pensioners throughout Australia. I remind the House of the subsidies which are being given to the State governments, I think through the operations of my colleague, the Minister for Housing, for the accommodation of age pensioners. We hope that this programme which is already so successful will be continued and accelerated. I remind the House also that the principle of supplementary assistance for rent was introduced by this Government, if my memory serves me correctly, in about 1958. I think the honourable member will realise that if a pensioner is paying even $5 or $6 a week for rent that pensioner, who gets supplementary assistance also, is very well off by the standards which existed when this Government came into office. 
I am not saying that the Government is satisfied. I think that the Prime Minister described social services some time ago as permanently unfinished business, but I remind the House of the rise in the living standard of pensioners and other people which has taken place during the lifetime of this Government. I can remember the strictures produced by honourable members of the Opposition when they were campaigning in elections to the effect that the Australian standard of living was falling under this Government. Such strictures were of course entirely nonsense put forward for electioneering purposes. I am not for one moment suggesting that we will not raise standards consistently higher and continually higher. I will not suggest that we are satisfied with the standards as they are, but I suggest to honourable members and to the House that some consideration should be given to the great improvement which has taken place. 
I shall be brief. I will have another look at the case of  Mrs Wright,  which the honourable member has mentioned. Of course I will do this entirely without commitment at the present stage but I assure the honourable member that the case will be looked at personally and I will confer with my colleague, the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten)  about it. Regarding the first case the honourable member mentioned, I think that probably nothing can be done under the law. However, I draw one point to the attention of the House, namely, that it is not always realised by how much the Australian level of pensions exceeds the level of pensions available in the United Kingdom. This lady is geting what would be available to her in the United Kingdom. I think we might well stop for a moment to congratulate ourselves on how much better Australian pensions are than are pensions in the United Kingdom. 
If the honourable member in private - I know that he does not want to use the name of this man in the House - brings this case to my attention I shall certainly have another look at it. I would think, from what he has said, that many of the questions he raises might be in the court of my colleague, the Minister for Health. If the honourable member would care to see me about this matter afterwards I promise to have another look at it. 
I am aware that certain cards have been circulating. I am not aware of the signatories to these cards. I will assist the honourable member as best I can in deciphering the signatures or I will have my staff do so. He must remember that I am not a handwriting expert. All I can say is that I will do my best. As regards  Mr Lancaster,  I have some views about the Teachers Federation but I do not think they are appropriate to mention to the House at the present time. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  has really excelled himself in this matter. First, he brought forward an absolute botch of a Bill, and then he brought forward an amendment to the motion for the second reading of the Bill so badly drawn that he had to get leave to amend it; that is rather a humiliating position for a lawyer to find himself in. Now he has brought forward an amendment that not only exhibits a complete misunderstanding of the whole position but also has an effect quite different from that for which he himself apparently is contending. I find it rather laughable that the Leader of the Opposition should try to draw credit to his Party for the reduction years ago of the period of qualification for an age pension to 10 years. This would be impertinent if it were not absurd. 
However, I will not labour that. What I would rather do is remind the Leader of the Opposition of the fact that the importance of a limit here has nothing to do really with people who live in Australia. What it is aimed at is the prevention of an abuse of the available facilities by persons who at present live outside Australia but might come to Australia in order to take advantage of a loophole in the law. We do not intend to leave the kind of loophole in the law that would enable people from overseas to come here and plunder Australia - and as I understand the position, the Opposition is inclined to take a strong view about people coming to Australia from overseas. If we allow people - for example, as the Leader of the Opposition wants to do - to come to Australia for 8 or 9 years while they are being educated or while they are having their working holiday, and then at some time later they become entitled to a full Australian pension which they can just take overseas, they will go away and laugh at us. That is not the Government's idea of a fair deal for the Australian taxpayer. There is to be no taking away of any existing right. 
The Opposition talks nonsense about a new residence test. The residence test of 10 years remains exactly as it has been for pensions in Australia. I repeat, there is to be no change at all. What is proposed to be provided is a new concession - absolutely new - rightly restricted to those people who have lived in Australia long enough to make a real contribution to the wealth and productivity of the nation. I know that it is easy to go cheap cheer chasing, as some members of the Opposition are wont to do. It is easy indeed. However, this Government does have some kind of regard for the real interests of the Australian people. We are, after all, an Australian government, and we are here to protect the Australian people. 
It really is a bad night for the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  If he would do me the honour of looking in Hansard tomorrow he will find that I was careful not to say that Parliament was not concluding tonight. I said it would shortly be concluding. So he should get that one accurate. The second point 1 wish to raise is that the reason he gave for this Bill being called Social Services Bill (No. 3) and not (No. 2) is entirely wrong. It is called (No. 3) because Social Services Bill (No. 2) was the one which increased pensions.  His  own Bill - that botch of a Bill - as is only right, has been swept unnamed and unnumbered into limbo. It has been a bad day for the Leader of the Opposition. He should get his facts right. As a lawyer he should not commit these egregious errors. 

 Mr WHITLAM (Merriwa- Leader of the Opposition) - I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-I can assure the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  that the reasons I gave him for this Bill being called Social Services Bill (No. 3) instead of (No. 2) were correct and that his memory, perhaps, or his knowledge of the facts is wrong. While on my feet I wish to correct another of his errors. He quoted quite correctly from the policy speech made in 1961 by the then  Mr Menzies.  But he then added his own words, that  Mr Menzies  said that because of advocacy of this policy by the Australian Labor Party. Of course that was not the reason. It was said at that time for the reason that  Mr Menzies,  now  Sir Robert  Menzies, gave. I do not think we need waste any more time on the question of the title of this Bill. 

 Mr WHITLAM(Werriwa- Leader of the Opposition) - The Minister for Social Services has misrepresented me. 

 Mr WENTWORTH (MackellarMinister for Social Services) -  Mr Chairman,  1 have been misrepresented. 
Yes. I can only assure the House and the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  that this matter of the numbering of the Bills was discussed in my office with my officers before the Bills were introduced and the reason for this Bill being so numbered was the reason which I have given and not the reason given by the Leader of the Opposition. That is simply a question of fact and 1 stand by what I have said. It is true. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
1 have very limited time. Let me point out the differences between the Australian pension system and other systems which seem to me to be significant. Firstly, our system is non-contributory. Secondly, it is non-graduated. The pension is paid either wholly or not at all, whereas in other countries it is graduated according to the length of contribution. The Australian pension is a good bit higher than most of the corresponding pensions in other countries, and we do not require a migrant to be naturalised to be eligible. The 2 matters of difference between the Government's Bill and the Opposition's amendment relate to the period of residence which enables a migrant to become eligible for portability rights and to reciprocal agreements on pensions with other countries. Let me deal with each of those very briefly. The requirement of 20 years to become eligible for a portable pension is in the Government's Bill not to deal with any people who are now in Australia but to prevent the possibility of people coming deliberately to Australia to qualify for a pension, take it away and fleece the Australian taxpayer - which is all of us. This is something which is completely undesirable. Under the Opposition's amendment, much less the inept and sloppy Bill which to his shame the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  produced, it would be possible for a group of British widows - thousands of them - to come here, reside in Australia for one year only, return home and live outside Australia with a permanent pension. This is the kind of thing which is inherent in the Opposition's proposals. 
Of course it is. The honourable member did not understand that it was in the Opposition's proposals, and it was in the very sloppy and silly Bill which the Leader of the Opposition produced in this House. It seems to me that the provision in the Government's Bill meets all the proper cases because we are thinking of people who have come here and have by their skill and industry added to the prosperity of the Australian community. That is why they should be able to take a pension abroad. It is true that we have a shorter qualifying period of 10 years, whether it be for any migrant or an Australian, but this is because we do not want to have elderly people in Australia living under bad conditions. But why should the Australian taxpayer be called upon to bear a permanent burden for those who have not contributed significantly to the prosperity of Australia? We are concerned particularly with those who might come to Australia deliberately to qualify for a pension, not with the people who are in Australia now. The Leader of the Opposition said a moment ago that some people in European countries habitually went away and worked for 10 years in another country and then came home. I know that there are such people. If they come to Australia, under the terms of this Bill they would be able subsequently to qualify for an Australian pension at the cost of the Australian taxpayer. We do not intend that the Treasury should be plundered in this way by people who are not at present in Australia and who would come here for the purpose of plundering it. 
The Opposition has some fantastic notion that it will take a long time to make agreements with other countries because they  would require changing of the laws of other countries. May I assure the House that we will not be holding up agreements for any changes in the laws of other countries. We are proposing at this stage to codify what information exists, set it down on paper, and make the agreements swiftly. Already I have been talking to the Ambassadors of Austria, the Netherlands, France, Spain, Portugal, Denmark, West Germany, Greece, Malta, Turkey, Ireland, Italy, Yugoslavia and the United States of America. I have appointments with other ambassadors. In point of fact I had one this afternoon which had to be deferred because I had to be in the House for the debate on this Bill. These agreements will be pursued. They will not be lengthy. The Opposition is entirely wrong when it says that these agreements will not come into being for some time. I can assure the Opposition that just the opposite is true. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed .to be omitted  (Mr Whitlam 's amendment)  stand part of the question. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Department of Health has supplied the following details in relation to Territories of the Commonwealth: 
Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory - 
Pensioners are transported free of charge. No ambulance subscription scheme operatesin these Territories. 
The provision of ambulance services in the States is a State matter. However, in general the position appears to be: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As a prerequisite to claiming unemployment benefit, an unemployed worker must first register for work with the Commonwealth Employment Service. He will be advised about benefit and informed that, if he is still unemployed in seven days, he should return to the Employment Office to lodge a claim. If there is no waiting period to be observed, a claim will be taken when the person first registers. 
The claim when submitted to my Department, will be deemed to have been lodged on the day of initial registration. A first Income Statement is issued when the claim is lodged, returnable seven days after the lodgment of the claim. 
Yes. 
(a) The previous procedure allowed a claim for benefit to be lodged at the time of the initial registration for work and a first income statement, to be returned fourteen days later, was issued. Otherwise the procedure was the same. 
The new procedure became effective from 17 January 1972, on the authority of the Director-General of Social Services. 
The change was designed to effect economies in administration without any adverse effect whatsoever on service to the applicant and was made following a Public Service Board review of procedures previously followed. 
In view of the fact that the rights and entitlements of claimants were not affected in any way, it was not considered necessary to inform professional social workers or the general public. 
(i) No. In fact, the elimination of unnecessary work will lead to better payment processing. 
There is no evidence known to my Department that migrants are confused regarding applications for unemployment benefit. 
No. The new procedure could, in fact, have further advantages for the applicant in that he may seek work with a more hopeful outlook if not immediately presented with unemployment benefit documents that imply at least two weeks' unemployment. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is impossible to answer questions of this character with any certainty. My officers estimate that the cost would be of the order of $15m per year. 
Commonwealth Centre at Bendigo  (Question No. 5782) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The average waiting time between application for and receipt of a first social service payment varies according to the nature of the benefit and the circumstances of the case. 
In the case of unemployment benefit the period is generally 16 days comprising the 7 days waiting period before eligibility commences to accrue, a further 7 days until the first weekly instalment is due and 2 days for assessment of entitlement and preparation and transmission by post of the cheque. However, should the applicant have been in receipt of benefit during the 12 weeks preceding the date of application, no further waiting period is imposed and the first weekly cheque could be received on the eighth or ninth day after application. 
For sickness benefit, the average times are generally comparable with those stated for unemployment benefit although the necessity to enquire into matters affecting eligibility e.g. about sick pay entitlement from employers, tends to increase the investigational period. 
When a prima facie entitlement exists but investigations are not fully completed, payment to avoid hardship may be made pending finalisation of enquiries. 
Statistics of the number of unemployment and sickness benefit claims rejected are not maintained. Particularly in the case of unemployment benefit, a significant proportion of the claims lapse because the applicant, having secured or resumed employment or for other reasons, fails to lodge an income statement or other documentation to establish his entitlement. 
Unemployment benefit  is  ordinarily approved for payment within two working days after the first weekly instalment becomes due. Because not less than 13 weeks  is  allowed for lodgement of a sickness benefit claim, some payment may be due at the date of application. Departmental procedures provide for specially accelerated action where there is evidence of hardship, but  a  general relaxation of normal investigational processes would, it is considered, lead to  a  significant increase in illegal payments. It is not possible to assess the extent of that increase.  lifts (Question No. 5794) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) May 1968; (b) June 1968. 
(a) (b) and (c) The amounts recorded by the Department are shown in the following tables. It should be noted however that changes have occurred in the names and boundaries of electoral divisions and also that as expenditure is not recorded by electoral divisions these figures have not been subject to financial audit. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2) and (3) These changes to social service benefits were advertised in daily newspapers, Sunday and provincial newspapers at an approximate cost of $22,400. 
It is usual for pensioners to be given written notification of variations in their rates of pension. However, on this occasion the time between the date of the Treasurer's announcement of the new rates and the dates from which the increases were payable did not permit individual notices to be prepared. To have issued individual notices could have meant delaying the payment of the increases. Rather than do this, it was decided to advertise the changes in the Press. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth Statistician has supplied the following information in reply, to parts (1) to (3) of the honourable member's question: 
Ex-nuptial live births registered in each State and Territory of Australia during the years 1966 to 1970 are shown in the table below: 
The honourable member for Swan may be assured of the Government's humanitarian outlook in this and other matters. The question he raises involves of course a matter of policy which will be considered by the Government in due course and at the proper time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (3) In connection with matters within my present portfolio I have attended meetings of the Australian Health Minister's Conference held in Darwin in June 1968; South Australia in June 1969; Victoria in June 1971; Queensland in March 1972. It is understood that information required in connection with these Health Conferences has been sought by the honourable member from the Minister for Health. I also attended a Conference of Child and Social Welfare Ministers held in Tasmania in March 1971 for which the particulars sought were given in my answer to Question No. 2971 (see Hansard, page 168 of 17th August 1971). 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
See answer to question No. 4732, page 4539 of Hansard of 10th December 1971. 
The States Grants (Home Care) Act provides for the Commonwealth to, first, pay to a participating State an amount equal to half its expenditure for approved home care services; secondly, to contribute up to one-third of the capital cost of a senior citizens' centre, on a matching basis with a participating State or a local governing body in a participating State; thirdly to pay half the salary of a welfare officer employed at, or in conjunction with, a senior citizens' centre. 
All of the States have now given notice to the effect that they will participate in each of these schemes. 
The honourable member was good enough earlier today to bring this matter to my attention. There are no funds at my disposal which could be used for this purpose, but I have no doubt that the Australian people would see that funds were made available. I know that honourable members in this House, including myself, would be only too willing to see that this matter was made good. But I have had today a communication with officials of the Australian Amateur Athletics Association. There is some difficulty about the breaching of Olympic rules and this has to be looked at to see what can be done. I think we can assure the people concerned that something will be done, although we will be careful to stay within the limits imposed by the Olympic Committee. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  I seek leave of the House to make a short statement on the same subject. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
I thank the House. I am sure that all honourable members will agree that there is no blame in any way attachable to the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Cope)  in this matter. I am sure that he has acted in a bona fide manner and with reason and in the interests of the persons concerned. May I say only one other thing? The important thing is that we all let John Kinsela know that Australia supports him and wishes him every fortune and victory in the coming Olympic Games. I am sure that, in them, he will uphold the best traditions of Australian sportsmanship 
Sitting suspended from 5.58 to 8 p.m. 
I think the suggestion made by the honourable member is a valuable one. As the House will know my Department does make a practice of endeavouring to get the full pension entitlement into the hands of everyone who is entitled to it. The House will recall that for that reason recently we published a small concise pamphlet entitled 'Know Your Social Services'. I gratefully acknowledge the help that was given to me in the circulation of that pamphlet by honourable members on both sides of the House as well as by other people. I will have it updated now because, under the new arrangements announced by the Treasurer last week, many people will become entitled to a greater pension than they now receive and many people who are at present not entitled to a pension at all will become entitled to one. I will have that pamphlet updated and reprinted and made available to honourable members on both sides of the House so that it can be circulated as soon as possible and so that everybody who is entitled to a pension will get the largest possible pension as soon as possible. I hope that honourable members will assist me in this endeavour. 
The answer to the second part of the honourable member's question is yes. As soon as the legislation can be prepared it will be brought into the House. I am in consultation with the officers to make certain that there is no undue delay in doing this. Regarding the payment of pensions, it has been the practice in this House, both by the present Government and by its Labor predecessors, to pay pensions as from the date when the Bill comes into effect and receives the royal assent. I would anticipate that if the House and the Senate will go with me in this we will be paying the pensions at the new rate as from the end of September. 
 I think there is general agreement that this is the most notable Budget that has been brought into this House for many years. It makes provision for the needs of the States and the needs of defence. It makes provision for taxation reductions. It provides a stimulus to the economy and it includes the biggest welfare packet that has ever been brought into a single Commonwealth Parliament. 
It is impossible in the time available to me in this debate to cover all these aspects, and I intend, if I may, to devote my time solely to the welfare aspects; but even then I will be unable to cover the full range that is contained in this Budget. I will have no time to say anything about the education or the repatriation proposals, the child care proposals or the housing proposals. They are all contained in the Budget and I have no doubt that other honourable members will be speaking on them. 
This afternoon I should like to concentrate rather on social services and on the associated measures in the health field which deal with the same kinds of problems and take advantage of the same kinds of opportunities. Later during this session I will be explaining in more detail the social service proposals when I bring in the Bills to give effect to them but at the present moment let me endeavour to give to the House some kind of conspectus. 
In the Government's social service and associated proposals there are, I think,  3  main aspects. 
First there is the raising of the basic pension rates. Second, there is the special provision for the ailing aged. Third, there are the measures taken for the liquidation of the means test. I would like to deal, if I may, with each of these  3  aspects. 
Firstly, let me deal with the increase in basic rate pensions. The standard rate of pension has gone up by  $1.75  to its present figure of  $20  a week. The rate for a married couple has been increased by  $2.50  and it is now  $34.50  a week. But in addition to this a new provision has been brought in under which wives of pensioners, whether they are age or invalid pensioners, will be entitled to a pension at the married rate. So that if there is a man who is entitled to the age pension and who has a young wife who is not entitled to the pension she will now come in with full entitlement, and the same provision will apply in the invalid pension sphere. I think the House will agree with me that this is a humanitarian measure the effect of which will go far. 
Now I come to the increase in the supplementary assistance which is paid, as honourable members know, to those pensioners who incur rent and who have virtually nothing beyond their pension. That rate has gone up from  $2  a week to  $4  a week. But in addition there is another increase in this field. Until now this supplementary assistance has been payable only to single pensioners. The new proposal is that the rate of  $4  a week supplementary assistance will be available to married couples also. 
If I could just put this into some kind of perspective, in the  12  months just gone the latest figures show that in the cost of living - the consumer price index - has risen by 6.14 per cent; but in the 12 months between the 1971 and the 1972 budgets the standard rate pension has gone up not by 6.14 per cent but by 15.94 per cent, the married rate has risen by 13.11 per cent and the supplementary assistance rate by 100 per cent. This follows the practice which has always obtained in the time of our government, that the pension should rise quicker than prices, so that the real value of the pension - its purchasing power - continually increases. This is something which I think is fair and reasonable and it is a principle which we have fully endorsed. 
I draw the attention of the House to the fact that we have given extra help to those at the bottom of the income scale, so thai those pensioners who need most help will get most assistance. Among those who have nothing else beyond their pension and who are paying rent, and who are therefore in the most need of help, no single person will get below $24 a week and no married couple below $38.50 a week. 
In this Budget the total increase for a single man is $3.75 and for a married couple it is $6.50. I do not want in any way to slur over the importance of these increased rates or on the contrary to give the House the impression that pension rates are everything. They are important, but they are not everything in the social service field. 
I come now to the special provisions we are making for the ailing aged. Sick old people should be able to follow their own preferences; they should be forced as little as their health permits away from their normal living into dependent living. This is a principle which we should follow and will follow and hence we are giving the ailing aged help in their own homes, in hostels and in the nursing homes, covering the whole spectrum, partly through social services and partly through the measures which my colleague the Minister for Health  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  is administering. Let me come to these 3 aspects. 
Firstly, I refer to what we are doing for the ailing aged in their own homes. We are increasing by some 34 per cent the subsidy which we give to the domestic nursing services - the services which are manned very largely under the control of voluntary organisations and which do so much. 
Next, we are instituting with the States consultations to increase domiciliary services all round to improve such things as senior citizen's centres, emergency home help, paramedical services and all these sorts of things. 
Lastly, and perhaps most significantly, we are bringing in the subsidy of $14 a week extra without applying a means test, for people who maintain, in their own homes, an aged parent or ailing relative who is in need of nursing care. This provision, which will be administered by my colleague the Minister for Health, will be brought into operation as soon as possible, although it will take some time to set up the administrative machinery. The proposal breaks new ground and is really one of the major matters in this Budget. 
I refer next to assistance for the ailing aged in hostels - that is in aged persons homes run on a non-profit basis, where the residents have their own private rooms but come together for meals and have special services done for them. We have raised the personal care subsidy for those over 80 years of age - nearly half of such residents - by 100 per cent, and it is now $10 a week. This, together with the increase in pensions, will enable these hostels to pay all their expenses and still leave to the residents out of their pensions enough for amusement and a decent life. 
The importance of another aspect of this part of our programme has perhaps not yet received the attention due to it. We are instituting a special 3-year crash programme for an increase in the number of hostel-type beds in non-profit organisations. 1 emphasise that this is not in substitution of our present aged persons homes scheme. It is an addition to that scheme. I believe that by this new programme we will make good the deficiency of hostel beds, which are the beds we most need. 
Many of these non-profit organisations were in existence before the introduction of the Aged Persons Homes Act. They have received no subsidy. They need not give us any more evidence of their bona fides. The fact that they have been conducting these organisations for so long is absolutely conclusive evidence. We are saying to them that for every unsubsidised bed that they now have we will give them up to $7,800 a bed for 2 more hospital beds, without their contributing anything else; that is a total of $15,600. In this way they will be able to expand their hostel accommodation. We are asking them for only 2 things. First, in regard to the special beds in the crash programme we ask that they should not accept any private donation. Second, we ask that they should allocate the beds in accordance with a schedule of need. 
This is a tremendous advance. We are getting the kinds of beds we most need. We are allocating them to the people who most need them and we are putting their administration into the hands of those institutions which over the years have given, by their actions, conclusive evidence of their fitness to control them. I believe that it is one of the really significant provisions of this Budget and its significance has not yet been appreciated. When I introduce the Bill I will explain the proposal in greater detail. Now I simply draw the plan to the attention of the House. 1 have referred to the provision for ailing aged people in their homes and hostels. I turn now to nursing homes. This plan is to be administered by my colleague the Minister for Health  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson).  Hospital insurance benefits will be payable for those not on pensions and for the three-quarters of the patients in nursing homes who are pensioners and who draw upon the pensioner medical service the Government will pay the full extra benefit without insurance. The extra that they are to be paid will come to $10.50 a week in the case of New South Wales and greater amounts for other States. There will be supervision of fees in profit making nursing homes so that the benefit will go to the patient. 
In summary, those people who have nothing but their pensions and are entitled to light nursing benefits will receive in all at least $59 a week. If they are entitled to intensive nursing benefits they will receive in all at least $80 a week. That is the least they will get. In Victoria, for example, they will receive almost an additional $12 a week. When the scheme becomes operative it will remove from the aged the hardships of sickness and from many of them it will remove the terrors of terminal illness. 
This again is a tremendous improvement. It is part of the plan that the Government has been pushing forward for so long. It does, through the nursing home benefits which we have given, make so much difference to those people who would otherwise be in quite considerable hardship in their declining years of ill health. I have spoken of the ailing aged. 
I want to say something now about the means test. The Government has committed itself to its liquidation within 3 years for people who are over the age of 65 years. It is a firm commitment that the age pensions which are being paid today will be free of the means test within 3 years and paid to all qualified persons, over 65, irrespective of means. The Government has not committed itself to the proposition that it will take the full 3 years to achieve this result. I heard the Prime Minister say at a meeting only a few days ago that it was his personal hope that the full 3 years would not be needed. The Government is about to set up a committee to inquire into the aspects of the means test and to give us also the hope of establishing a supplementary national insurance scheme. 
This liquidation of the means test is a continuing process. We have been dismantling it through the merged means test, the tapered means test and now by this step, which I think is the greatest and most significant step we have yet taken; but this is not the final step. 
While these measures are being implemented we are not doing nothing in this means test sphere. We are immediately raising what is known as the 'free area'. Single persons are to have their free means entitlement raised from $10 a week to $20 a week; for married pensioner couples the increase is from $17 a week to $34.50 a week. The general rule is that a full pension will be drawable by those pensioners whose means, exclusive of pension, are equal to the pension rate. A partial pension will be applicable to people whose means excluding pension are up to three times the pension rate. Maximum pensions that will be drawable by single people who have outside means of up to $20 a week and by married couples who have up to $34.50 a week so that their total cash incomes including maximum rate pensions, will be $40 per week and $69 per week respectively. The 'vanishing point' - i.e. the point beyond which no pension is payable - will be $60 a week for single people and $103.50 a week for married couples - i.e. three times the pension rate. To these figures twice the special allowance for children will also be added. 
The Government has increased by 50 per cent, that is from $4 to $6 a week, the special means test allowance for children. We have also decided to make special arrangements about superannuation pensions and annuities, which will be of particular benefit to those people in the upper age groups who have suffered by reason of inflation and rising prices. 
This Budget contains a combination of what can be achieved in the welfare field. The means test liquidation is not an alternative to raising pensions and increasing special services. They go hand in hand. This Budget shows humanity. It is not the end of the Government's social service programme. I know that in the 4 years that I have been Minister for Social Services, we have made great advances. I am sure that in the next period we will make greater advances yet. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Hallett)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
The honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis)  will know that I cannot give him any assurance in regard to particular cases except to say that I will have them looked at. I will study them personally. The honourable member is probably aware that my Department tries to take a reasonable view in such cases but the public interest has to be preserved in accordance with the law. I will have a look at the cases he has raised. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Such persons usually constitute a small minority of those attending handicapped children's training centres and where this occurs they do not disqualify an organisation from receiving subsidy under the Handicapped Children (Assistance) Act. More frequently, however handicapped persons of more than 21 years of age are catered for by organisations conducting sheltered workshops with assistance under the Sheltered Employment (Assistance) Act Persons over the age of 16 years, of course, qualify for Invalid Pension and Supplementary Assistance. 
 What we have just heard deserves only a few words in reply. I will not reply at any length. I think the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  overestimated the generosity of this House when he said that his statement would commend itself to both sides. He had a reasonable expectation of this but it did not turn out that way. 
The honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  is not really concerned with poverty. He is concerned with the election. It is quite repulsive to hear the way in which he was not concerned at all really with this inquiry. What he is concerned with is trying to make political capital out of the plight of the poor, out of the plight of anybody. Time and time again I have heard honourable members for the Opposition gloat, absolutely gloat, about the misfortunes of Australia or the misfortunes of individuals in Australia. I have heard this too often and over too many years. But I do not remember an occasion on which this has been done more blatantly. 
The honourable member for Oxley shows that he is not really worried at all about the substantial matters. He is only worried about trying to abuse the Government. He is only worried about trying to make his own marble good in the coming election. I think that the country will repudiate this kind of activity. The Government- has a genuine concern here. We are told that one is not enough to conduct this inquiry. There is nobody in Australia that would have the same breadth of experience and general respect that Professor Henderson has in this field. It is not necessary to say: 'He will not be able to look at the medical, social or some other aspects'. Just the opposite is the case. He will have complete freedom and will be able to call evidence and get the assistance of whomever he so desires in this matter. The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  made it quite clear that the conduct of this inquiry would be determined by Professor Henderson himself. There is no thought of tramelling him nor any thought of confining him within the terms of bis reference, which are wide and far reaching. He will have full freedom of action to do as he thinks fit and there is nobody who would be more capable of knowing where to go, where to look and what to do. 
The honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  had some disparaging words to say about the terms of reference. He said: Is this going to be only monetary poverty or primary poverty? What about cultural poverty, social poverty and so on?' He contradicted himself, because in introducing his remarks he made a quotation from Professor Henderson's own book which showed that Professor Henderson did not take this narrow viewpoint. He quoted from the book People in Poverty: A Melbourne Survey' to show that Professor Henderson does not think solely in monetary terms but also in these wider terms. The honourable member for Oxley must acknowledge that the terms set down are wide and far ranging. They do not confine the Professor and there is no reason at all to think that he will find any inhibition in going in whatever direction he may think fitting and desirable. 
What Professor Henderson has written gives the lie to what the honourable member for Oxley said, namely, that there is a possibility that this inquiry will be only narrow and confined within the mere monetary sense. 
Even in the mere monetary sense I think that the House must realise that in this last Budget a great many of the residual pockets of poverty have been eliminated. I will not go into detail at this stage. There will be other opportunities to do this. Furthermore, I am not trying to override the proper function of this committee, the Government is undertaking this inquiry honestly and above board. It has made only one mistake, that is, in believing that it would commend itself to both sides of this House. I think we shall look with disgust on the narrow and partisan approach of the honourable member for Oxley who sets himself up in this matter as the spokesman for the Opposition. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following State and Commonwealth Ministers attended the Conference of Child and Social Welfare Ministers held on 5th June 1972: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Social Services Act 1947-72 provides the following benefits for the parents of sucha child: 
Child endowment; 
Additional pension at the rate of $4.50 per week where the parent is a pensioner; 
Mother's or guardian's allowance of $6 per week where the parent is a single, widowed or divorced pensioner; 
A deduction from income for pension purposes of $4 per week (proposed to be increased to $6 per week in the Budget for  1972-73)  where the parent is a pensioner. Organisations providing training for accommodation for such children may qualify for capital assistance under ' the Handicapped Children (Assistance) Act. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes, up to half the cost of widows' pensions which would be paid if these women were qualified to receive them. 
The matter of welfare assistance in the Northern Territory for persons falling outside the provisions of the Social Services Act is one for my colleague, the Minister for the Interior. 
The Government's plan of assistance for the ailing aged will be implemented partly through my Department and partly through that of my colleague the Minister forHealth Hostels for aged persons are an integral part of our plan and there are 2 aspects of it. The first is that we are doubling the personal care subsidy paid to people over 80 years of age in these hostels and it will be $10 a week. Those people comprise not quite half of the inmates. The result of this, in conjunction with the increased rate of pension and supplementary assistance, will be that the non-profit organisations which conduct these hostels will be able to meet the full costs from the pensions payable and the subsidy and still leave to the residents enough for amusement and a decent life. This aspect will be dealt with in the Bill which I am hoping to bring in in the next sittings of this House - the main Social Services Bill. 
The second matter is the crash programme for 3 years to increase very quickly the number of hostel beds available. This plan will be contained in a separate Bill which I would hope to introduce into this House as soon as we reassemble after the next recess. I hope it will be ready by then. I do not think I should take up the time of the House now to give details of this Bill but I assure honourable members that it will be of the most far reaching nature and that it will be considered to be extremely beneficial to these people. I shall give details when the Bill comes before the House, which, I hope will be immediately after the next recess. 
I think 1 should say first that the scope of Professor Henderson's inquiry will be very wide indeed. This arises, firstly, because Professor Henderson is such a competent authority and does take a very wide view of these matters; secondly, because the terms of the inquiry themselves are very wide; and thirdly, because although the Government will provide Professor Henderson with all assistance possible it will give him no riding instructions in the matter. I regret to say that a false impression also has been conveyed in this House and elsewhere that Professor Henderson's inquiry will be confined purely to monetary terms. This is not so. If he so desires, he can examine all the matters that generally are described as quality of life'. I have seen the reports to which the honourable member referred. Of course, the present inquiry does not necessarily preclude a further inquiry at some later date. However, the request for a further inquiry should not be allowed to defer or delay the present inquiry. That is the view the Government has taken. 
Let me mention some considerations involved in this matter. My Department is not perfect, but it is not in every respect imperfect. To a very great extent we have conducted over the years a running inquiry into these matters. As honourable members and other people know, my door is always open to those who would make recommendations. Although these matters are to some extent fragmented, this is not altogether a vice. There is, in the administration of these matters, some proper call for the use of different authorities, including church authorities, to whom I think we should be very grateful for what they have done in this sphere. I would be glad to hear any representations on the proposal for a further inquiry, but I suggest that we should not have this inquiry so diffuse as to be devoid of meaning. One thing that might be considered is a non-governmental inquiry conducted on an inter-church basis. I personally would welcome this and I would consider making available servicing staff, information, and perhaps, with the Treasurer's permission, even some funds. However, I am not making any recommendation at present. I can say only that my mind is open in relation to what recommendations I would make and I will be listening to the representations made to me in regard to this matter. 
Pursuant to section 148 of the Social Services Act 1947- 1972 I present the 31st annual report of the Director-General of Social Services for the year ended 30 June 1972. 
by leave - It gives me great pleasure to announce that the Commonwealth Department of Social Services with the full support and cooperation of the State departments concerned with social and child welfare has commissioned a family research project. The project will be conducted by the School of Social Work within the University of New South Wales. This is the first project of its kind sponsored by the Department of Social Services and will be undertaken over a 3 year period. The project arises from the long standing and widespread concern felt in Government and voluntary agencies and the general community over what appears to have been a large increase in the number of deserted wives and unmarried mothers seeking assistance from community agencies. The areas to be included in the study will include the incidence, causes and consequence of family breakdown; the emerging new family patterns and structures; and community services available to the Australian family. The need for such a research project was discussed and agreed upon at the annual meeting of State welfare Ministers and myself held in Brisbane last June. While the project will be nationally oriented, it will include a series of specific studies in selected States and regions. 
The project will be under the general direction of a steering committee headed by Professor R. J. Lawrence, professor of social work and head of the School at the University of New South Wales. Other members of the steering committee will be  Mr M.  Wryell, First Assistant DirectorGeneral, Commonwealth Department of 
Social Services,  Mr W.  C. Langshaw, Under Secretary of the New South Wales Department of Child Welfare and Social Welfare, who will also be representing equivalent departments from other States, and  Mr A.  S. Colliver, senior lecturer, School of Social Work in the University of New South Wales. Advertisements for staff for the family research project will appear within the next 2 weeks in the national Press. The study will have great significance for the long term development of Australian social welfare. Although the project is expected to extend over 3 years, each phase of it will be marked by productive research bulletins, which will be made available to interested persons and groups. 1 am sure that the House will be interested in the work to be undertaken in this project, which I am certain will make a significant contribution towards our objective of developing in Australia a social services system which is fully balanced, efficient and humane. I present the following paper: 
Family Research Project - Ministerial Statement, 3 lst. August 1972. 
Motion (by  Mr Chipp)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Estimates of expenditure on pensions for any financial year are based mainly on the estimated average number of persons who will receive pensions during the year and the average rates of pensions in payment at the commencement of the year. Provision is also made for the estimated cost of any liberalisations to pensions proposed to be made during the year that are announced in the Budget. In the preparation of these estimates it is unnecessary to make any distinction as to the location of payment of the pensions. 
As I have already said in this House, Professor Henderson will have complete freedom, in the conduct of the inquiry, to take whatever avenues may seem good to him. The Government will be providing him with all necessary facilities - I have already spoken to him in this regard - but it will not be giving him any directions as to what he shall inquire into. That will be up to him. I think I mentioned in the House earlier that he would have complete freedom to inquire into non-monetary factors if it seemed good to him to do so. In point of fact, in speaking in the House I did remark that, looking at his published material, I thought it entirely likely that he would take these other factors into consideration. I was therefore rather surprised to see in the Press reports of remarks made by my friend, the Leader of the Opposition. 
Well, parliamentary decencies must be preserved. I was rather surprised to see reports of remarks, allegedly made by my friend at a meeting of Methodists over the weekend, in which he grandiloquently said he would see, if he had the authority, that the inquiry was widened. He went on to imply that the professor would not be competent, under the terms of the Government's proposal, to make such inquiries. I had made it quite clear in the House that he would be competent to do so. I would not like to think that my honourable friend was deliberately misleading the Methodists and endeavouring to imply something which was not true. If indeed the report is correct, I can therefore only assume that he spoke in complete ignorance of the facts. 
The honourable member has asked a number of questions and I will try to answer them as briefly as possible. Firstly in regard to deserted wives, the position is not that they do not get a pension for the first 6 months of their desertion. Rather the position is that the pension is administered by the State during that time and not by the Commonwealth, so during that time the responsibility lies with the State and not with the Commonwealth. Therefore it would be preferable for the honourable member to see that these representations were directed to the State authorities. Secondly, I think I would be right in saying that the honourable member's mind is directed to the Windale area. Is that correct? 
This is a matter of great concern. What is in question there is not entirely the level of monetary poverty. These are newly settled areas where there is a great lack of community facilities and community spirit. I would not issue any directions on this matter but I would think it not improbable that this kind of problem would be included in the survey to be conducted by Professor Henderson. The honourable gentleman has made a real and substantial point but I think that the problem is more a nonmonetary one than a monetary one. Lastly he referred to invalid pensions. Again tha point he raised is substantial and it causes me no small amount of anxiety. The present criterion of 85 per cent has been in the Act for a very long time. Its precise meaning is not always clear. It seems to me that the time is ripe for some complete reassessment of this position. I do not think one would consider giving the whole of the invalid pension to those people who were less seriously incapacitated. I simply say without making any commitment at the moment that it may well be that, just as we have partial war pensions, we will be giving some consideration to the question of partial invalid pensions. This would meet the kind of thing that the honourable gentleman has in mind. He has raised a real problem and one that cannot be solved simply by reducing the present qualification for the invalid pension. 
1 move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
In the Budget there is a comprehensive and balanced programme for assistance to the ailing aged - that is, those who suffer from impaired health in their declining years, and who need special care and attention. I do not think that any honourable member will deny that these merit some special provision. The Government's programme in this field will be partly administered by my colleague, the Minister for Health  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson),  and partly through my own Department. The 2 proposals which concern me in my Department are: 
Increase in the subsidy paid to nonprofit homes caring for people aged over 80, so that these homes could balance their books on pension plus subsidy, and still leave their inmates enough for necessities and amusement. 
A 3-year crash programme to provide more hostel-type accommodation in line with our aged persons homes organisation. 
This Bill which I am now presenting, is concerned with the former of these 2 proposals, and it will implement the announcement made in the Treasurer's Budget Speech to the effect that the present rate of subsidy payable to eligible organisations providing personal care services for the frail aged in hostel accommodation will be doubled. 
As honourable members will be aware, the Aged Persons Homes Act assists eligible organisations to provide suitable accommodation in hostels for aged persons in 2 ways, firstly, by means of a $2 or $1 subsidy towards the capital cost of establishing approved self-contained hostel or nursing accommodation; and, secondly, by assisting eligible organisations to help meet the cost of providing personal care services in the intermediate or hostel form of accommodation. 
In order to receive personal care subsidy it is not necessary for a hostel to have been established by the organisation with the aid of a capital grant under the Aged Persons Homes Act. Many organisations which established homes prior to the introduction of the Act are now receiving personal care subsidy in respect of those homes. This personal care subsidy, which is at present calculated on the basis of $5 a week for each resident aged 80 years and over, who comprise, by the way a little under half of their residents, was introduced in 1969 to provide an alternative to pensioners who would otherwise have been forced to go into nursing homes. As I said in 1969 when introducing the legislation, the Government is concerned at the fact that people whose only infirmity is the frailty of advancing years are sometimes admitted to nursing homes and other similar institutions unnecessarily, thus causing their sphere of activity and their scope for normal living to be unduly curtailed. 
The purpose of personal care subsidy is to encourage organisations to provide such people with an adequate standard of personal attention in a less institutional atmosphere and at less cost to both the individual and the Commonwealth. In order to qualify for payment of the subsidy it  is  necessary for a home to provide meals and to employ sufficient staff to help any residents who need assistance with bathing and dressing, the cleaning of their rooms, their personal laundry and the general oversight of their medication; also we require a staff member to be available on the premises at all times in case of emergency. As I previously mentioned, the amount of the subsidy is calculated on the basis of the number of residents aged 80 and over. This provides an inducement for the accommodation to be made available to the frailer aged category of person. Nevertheless, it is a condition of approval that the personal care services I have referred to should be provided for any aged resident who n:eds such services, whether over 80 or not. 
Since this assistance was introduced in 1969 it has been highly successful, having been responsible for many organisations introducing the personal care services into their homes. The subsidy is now being paid to 360 homes, which provide hostel-type accommodation for over 16,000 aged persons, of whom nearly 7,000 are aged 80 or over. Subsidy paid during 1971-72 amounted to $1.8m. Since 1969 the level of staff wages and other costs associated with the running of aged persons homes has risen substantially. In order to ensure that the real value, or purchasing power, of the assistance is not reduced, but rather increased, the Bill now before the House provides for the rate of payment of subsidy to be increased from $5 to $10 a week and for the increase to take effect from the first pay-day after the legislation receives royal assent. The increase will, of course, go much further than compensating for cost increases that have taken place since 1969. It is intended to increase substantially the incentive for organisations to provide hostel accommodation and to expand the nature and extent of the care that they provide for the frail aged residents of such hostels. 
It is estimated that this increase will cost an additional $1.3m in 1972-73 and $2m in the first full year. Total expenditure on the subsidy is thus expected to be S3. 2m in 1972-73 and upward of $4m in the next full year, with cumulative increases in subsequent years as the supply of hostel-type accommodation increases. In so far as our crash programme to accelerate the construction of hostel-type accommodation succeeds, these figures may well be substantially exceeded. Residents in those nonprofit hostel type homes who have no assets or income outside their pension will receive a pension of S20 a week plus S4 a week supplementary assistance. In addition the home will receive SIO a week for all over 80; and since about 45 per cent of their residents fall into this upper age group, the average subsidy will be about $4.50 a week a resident. This gives a total available from the Government of about 528.50 a resident a week, which should be enough to provide for running expenses and leave a reasonable spending margin to pensioners. 
This Bill represents but one component of a comprehensive programme being introduced by the Government in this session of Parliament to improve the health and welfare of aged persons. I will, as I have said, also be introducing another Bill under which the Commonwealth will offer to meet the full cost of additional ho 5 tei accommodation built by eligible organisations at present conducting homes for the aged which were established either without Commonwealth subsidy or when the subsidy was paid only on a dollar-for-dollar basis. This special offer, which will be limited to 3 years, will be in addition to the $2 for $1 subsidy scheme presently provided under the Aged Persons Homes Act, which, of course, will continue to operate independently of the new arrangement. In addition, the Minister for Health has announced that he will be introducing new forms of assistance for patients who require nursing care on a continuous basis, together with other measures aimed at encouraging aged people, who might otherwise be admitted prematurely or unnecessarily to nursing homes, to remain in their domestic environment for as long as they are able to do so. This Bill before the House makes a significant contribution to this total programme. I commend the Bill to the House. 

I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to give effect to the announcement made in the Treasurer's Budget Speech that the Government would legislate in this session to assist the provision of additional hostel-type accommodation for aged persons. Before I proceed to give details of how the Bill does this it might be helpful to honourable members if I explained the general context into which the measure fits. 
I am glad to be able to report to the House that in 1971-72 we broke records in numbers of beds approved in each of the 3 types of accommodation, and that preliminary figures suggest that 1972-73 may also be a record year, surpassing even last year. 
 in reply - I thank honourable members on both sides of the House for what they have said during the course of this debate. May I just sum up and try to put some matters in perspective. The 2 Bills which we are debating together are part of a pattern. The doubling of the personal care subsidy will enable the hostel type accommodation to be run without loss by the organisations concerned and still leave a spending margin for the inmates. The new subsidy for hostels will enable the organisations to expand more quickly the hostel type accommodation. This is a crash programme for 3 years and is designed to have quite an immense impact upon the entire situation. 
Since we are not going to have a Committee debate, may I take this opportunity of reiterating some of the details of the Aged Persons Hostels Bill in case they are not quite clear in the minds of honourable members. The qualifying home really is one which has not received the full subsidy. If it is a qualifying, unsubsidised home and it is a home which, in essence, is the same whether it be maintained as a hostel type, nursing home type or unit type aged persons home, it will qualify. The unsubsidised home is one which has received no subsidy. The subsidised qualifying home is one which was built between the years 1954 and 1957 and which therefore received only a $1 for $1 subsidy. This is the basis of the computation on which the subsidy will be paid. For every bed in an unsubsidised qualifying home, there will be 2 new subsidised beds. For every 2 beds in a subsidised qualifying home there will be one new subsidised bed. So, if we take the example of an aged persons home which has 50 beds and which has received no subsidy, under the new provisions it will be entitled to receive the new subsidy on 100 beds. In the case of an aged persons home which has 50 beds and which, in the past, has received a $1 for $1 subsidy, it will now be entitled to receive the subsidy on 25 beds. 
No, they have already received their full subsidy. The subsidy is $7,800 per bed, to which is added $250 for furnishings which, in round figures, is a total subsidy of $8,000. This subsidy must be spent on hostel type accommodation without donation by the incoming residents and accommodation must be given in accordance with need. However, a new hostel need not be built on the same site as the existing home. The organisation will have a free choice as to whether it will invest the new subsidy in its existing home on its own site or whether it will move to another site. The organisation will have a free choice in that regard and it may use the money for one home or for 2 homes as it sees fit. We are not going to try to trammel that. What we want are hostel beds quickly. We want them without donation by incoming residents and we want them allocated to those in need. These are the requirements. Because they are going into the administration of organisations which have, by their past actions, given evidence of their full bona fides, we will ensure that the best possible use will be made of this money. 
I have instanced to the House church organisations, bodies like the Returned Services League, organisations for the blind and charitable trusts of long standing. These organisations are all run by good people and they will find it no hardship at all to take the money, to say 'We will take no further donation in respect of it' and to allocate it in accordance with need. Do honourable members think, for example, that organisations like Chesalon Church of England, St Vincent de Paul, the Little Sisters of the Poor, the Lutheran homes or the Montefiore homes will find these conditions onerous? Of course not. It will be very much the opposite. I am sure that they will be welcomed. I want to see from this an efflorescence of hostel beds all over Australia to meet the needs of old people and to prevent the undue incursion of aged people into nursing homes in the future. This is what the programme is aimed at and this is what it will do. 
I think that the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  raised an important point when he asked: 'Will this $7,800 be sufficient?' In general I think it will because we are dealing- with hostel type accommodation which, taking it by and large, is the most economical type of accommodation to build. Our investigations indicate that at present, for this amount or less, a bed can very conveniently be provided. It may be that they will not be able to provide the full number of beds. I do not know this. The plans will be approved from time to time by my Department. This scheme is very flexible. It is inflexible, I suppose, in the sense that it has to be directed to those most in need and it has to be run by those who are best qualified to run it, but in its administration within those limitations it will have a great deal of margin for operation and I believe it will be very quickly effective. 
I do not know what the reaction of these organisations will be - I have not been in touch with them - but I think I can predict it fairly certainly. I feel that these charitable organisations - seeing the need, knowing that they can now go ahead without further capital expenditure themselves and knowing that because of the cognate Bill on the subsidy they will be able to run without loss - will feel that they have every reason to act quickly. The honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  I think it was, spoke about our estimates of cost. How can we have a firm estimate of cost when we are dependent on what voluntary organisations themselves decide? We cannot command them. But it has been a principle in the past with the Aged Persons Homes Act that a proper application for a subsidy has never been refused on financial grounds, and I see no reason to believe that the present Bill will not be the same in that regard. 
I have taken note of the other matters that have been raised in this debate but I shall not refer to them in detail. Perhaps I should mention but one or two of them. The honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  spoke about this scheme being piecemeal. It is not piecemeal. This is part of a scheme to help the ailing aged, the most comprehensive scheme, the most effective scheme, traversing the Department of Health and my Department. I think it is the most comprehensive and the most effective scheme that we have ever had in Australia and, in all probability, it is the best and most forward scheme that exists in any part of the world, because it covers the whole spectrum in a way in which I do not think any other scheme does with the same efficiency and effect. It is perfectly true that we will not solve these problems overnight. Buildings take time. 
An honourable member has said '23 years', but in that time this Government has made greater strides for the real benefit of the ailing aged than have ever been made before. We have a system here, in our aged persons homes organisation of which we may well he proud. I have heard the phrase 'key money' used in this debate. I have heard people speaking of the nation's take. I remind the House - honourable members will know this from the monthly statements which I circulate to all honourable members - that the majority of beds which are being built under the old system are free of donation. I remind the. House also that even the beds that have been built with donation eventually become charitable beds, because each bed will have 10, 12 or 15 occupants during the course of its lifetime. Old people, generation after generation, will use them and be. grateful. We are accumulating a stock of real charitable beds. This could not have been done so quickly or effectively under any other scheme. This new Bill that we are bringing in is by no means a substitution for our existing' aged persons homes scheme. The aged persons homes scheme as we have it will go on unchanged. This will be a temporary addition to it, a crash programme designed as part of the Government's scheme to help effectively the ailing aged. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Third Reading 
Leave granted for third reading to be moved forthwith. 
Bill (on motion by  Mr Wentworth)  read a third time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
yes. 
As indicated in my Speech of 13th April 1972, the Social Services Act provides that the residence qualification for portable pension rights is 20 years after reaching the age of 16 years. This is waived where permanent incapacity for work, or widowhood, occurs during permanent residence in Australia. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Statistics are not maintained of pensioners according to the rate of their weekly income. However, estimates are available of pensioners in selected ranges of weekly income and are set out in the table hereunder. These estimates are based on a survey of the characteristics of pensioners in New South Wales and Victoria in June 1972 and exclude income which is not taken into account in assessing the amount of pension entitlement. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A wife who has been deserted by her husband without just cause or whose husband has been imprisoned, may qualify for Commonwealth widow's pension 6 months after the date of her husband's desertion or imprisonment. During the initial period of 6 months such a woman may be assisted by the State Government if she has one or more children and is suffering hardship. Under the States Grants (Deserted Wives) Act, 1968, the Commonwealth reimburses the States half the cost of assistance provided to such mothers or half the amount of widow's pension which would have been payable had they been qualified to receive it, whichever ls the less. In the light of the above, the information sought by the honourable member is as follows: 
The number of deserted wives in New South Wales in receipt of Commonwealth widow's pension at 30th June 1972 was 8,317. Of these, 6,981 were receiving Class A widow's pension and 1,336 Class B widow's pension. The New South Wales Department of Child Welfare and Social Welfare has advised that at the same date State assistance was being paid to 1,257 deserted wives with children. 
Expenditure by the Commonwealth on widows' pensions is not maintained separately for each category of widow. Similarly, separate records are not maintained by the States of the amount of assistance provided for each category of persons assisted. 
Commonwealth widow's pension foi deserted wives commences from the pay-day following the date they become qualified for the pension or from the pay-day following the date they lodge a claim, whichever is the later. 
At 301h June 1972 Commonwealth widow's pension was being paid to 171 wives of prison inmates in New South Wales. Of this number 167 were receiving Class A widow's pension and 4 Class B widow's pension. The New South Wales Department of Child Welfare and Social Welfare has advised that at the same date State assistance was being paid to 197 wives of prison inmates with children. 
See answer to question (2) above. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (5) The Salvation Army Home, 58 Glenrosa Road, Red Hill, is similar in nature to a number of establishments throughout Australia which are mainly concerned with persons undergoing rehabilitation. 
As an essential part of their rehabilitation, persons residing in the home are required to work. Some are employed at domestic and garden duties and others are employed at salvage work for the Salvation Army. 
While I applaud the value to the community of the work of the Salvation Army in this field, it is not possible under the provisions of the Social Services Act for my Department to grant an unemployment benefit to a person who is employed. However, every effort is being made to co-operate with the Salvation Army and assist in its Rehabilitation programme wherever possible. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I said that some countries allow former residents to bring their pensions with them to Australia. 
Countries which allow their age pensions or equivalent pensions to be paid in Australia include Britain, Cyprus, Greece, Italy and Malta. Other countries continue the pensions of nationals who have gone abroad, provided there is a reciprocal agreement, e.g. Yugoslavia. Again, certain countries continue payment abroad to nationals while aliens abroad qualify if there is a reciprocal agreement between the 2 countries. This is the position with respect to France and the Federal Republic of Germany. The legislation for portability of Australian pensions requires that there be an agreement between Australia and the other country before the provisions of the legislation become effective.  '7 
The honourable member has asked a number of questions. I would say first that the Bill to be introduced will indeed clarify the position, as he asked in the first part of his question. I hope that the Bill will be ready to receive the royal assent early next week and will operate from that date; this depends upon the Parliament, of course. Entitlements to increased pension by reason of the superannuation provisions contained in the Bill will also date from the date of the royal assent. However, 1 should make 2 things clear: First, because of the clerical work involved which is quite considerable, the increased pensions will probably not be payable in regard to superannuation  -  I speak only in regard to superannuation - until early next year. However, in regard to existing pensioners they will be backdated to the date of the royal assent. Secondly, the additional entitlement for new applicants - not for existing pensioners - will date from the date of application. As I have said, I hope that the royal assent will be able to be given to this Bill early next week. 
As honourable members know, my Department endeavours consistently to get pensions into the hands of all people who have entitlements. Tn various ways we are endeavouring to put out publicity to help this to be done. This pamphlet, 'Know Your Social Services', which is in English, has been distributed by honourable members on both sides of the House to their constituents. I gratefully acknowledge this. Knowing that some of the newcomers do not always speak English fluently, my Department has taken steps to produce this pamphlet in a number of other languages. As it happens, by some coincidence I have in my hand the pamphlets which have been produced in Greek, German. Italian and Spanish. These are available for honourable members now. If any honourable members like to get in touch with my office I will see that they have for distribution to their constituents as many as they require. Pamphlets in Turkish, Yugoslav, French, Finnish and Dutch are at present in the course of preparation and will be available in a few weeks time. I will notify honourable members when they are available. A further programme for Polish, Hungarian, Czech and the Baltic languages is also contemplated. 
I thank the honourable member. I will see that Maltese is included. We are trying to provide this information on pension entitlements to as many people in Australia as possible. I continue to be rather disappointed by the fact that many people who are entitled to pensions for some reason do not apply for them. I hope that the House will continue to do what it has done and that honourable members will continue to endeavour to get pensions into the hands of all their constituents. Again I thank honourable members on both sides of the House for what they have done in the past and I hope that they will continue this work in the future, with special reference to the people who cannot speak English properly. 
It was necessary to endeavour to compress the report into a reasonable number of pages. I think the honourable member will see that in this last report the volume of information has been extended and more is given than before. However, although this information has been omitted for reasons of space, there is no reason at all why the honourable member, if he is interested, should not obtain it. I will be very happy to see that my officers do give it to him. Again I do say to honourable members that it is necessary to keep these reports within reasonable compass, but we are trying to do our best to give as much information as possible. If the Leader of the Opposition is interested, any information which is available in my Department in this regard will be made available to him. 
 I shall of course look forward to receiving from the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  the particulars of which he speaks and I will examine the case. What the honourable member says is not quite as simple as it looks. I think we all are, or should be, rather alarmed at the rising rate of illegitimacy in this country. If I recall the figures, 21,000 illegitimate babies were born in the calendar year 1970. In the year 1971 the figure was 25,000 and, although this is unofficial, I understand from the preliminary indications that the 1972 figure will be substantially higher still. 
What is happening now is that about 10 per cent of total births in the community are illegitimate. This is not something which I think we should take lightly. I realise that from a humanitarian point of view we must look primarily at the interests of the child. Yet at the same time one must look at the preservation of the social structure as a whole. It may be that some people believe that marriage is no longer important and that we should get rid of marriage altogether. This is not something which I believe. In fact, I would reject that concept very strongly indeed. 
The honourable member asks why. 
If one does reject that concept that there is no point in marriage and that one should go to another kind of society, one would have to take the further step of having some kind of sanctions which apparently are necessary because of the quite unprecedented upsurge in illegitimacy which has taken place in Australia in the last 3 or 4 years. Do we want this to continue or do we not? If we do not want it to continue we may have to think in terms of some kind of sanction? As the honourable member for Robertson would know, it is very difficult to decide what is the correct thing to do because there is a conflict of the 2 principles. Do we look always to the child or do we look to some extent to the genera] structure of society? At the present moment, when in Australia it would appear that the general structure of society is changing in a way that I certainly would deplore and that most of us would reject, I do not think we can ignore entirely the latter consideration. However, on this particular case, the honourable member can be assured that, when he gives me the name of the person concerned tomorrow, I will have the case examined in detail. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Following the Prime Minister's announcement on 30th January 1972 of the Government's intention to pay, subject to certain conditions, Australian social services pensions abroad, the Heads of all Diplomatic Missions in Canberra were informed by the Department of Foreign Affairs of the decision. 
On 14 February 1972 I approached the Heads of Missions representing Austria, Denmark, France, the Federal Republic of Germany. Greece, Ireland, Italy, Malta, The Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, Turkey and Yugoslavia inviting consideration of the Australian proposals. Subsequently, on the dates shown in brackets after the name of the country, I began discussions with the representatives of Canada and Switzerland (18th May 1972), U.S.A. (19th May 1972) and Israel (24th May 1972). Both Canada and Switzerland had previously shown interest in the Prime Minister's announcement. 
Invitations to consider participation in the Australian proposals were extended on 2nd June 1972 to the representatives of Argentina, Belgium, Chile, Finland, Lebanon (whose Ambassador had inquired earlier), Norway, Peru, South Africa, Sweden and Uruguay. 
In addition, on 26th June 1972 the Australian Ambassador at Brussels, who is accredited to Luxembourg, placed the Australian proposals for portability of pensions before the Luxembourg Government. In August last the Australian High Commissioner in London raised with the Cyprus High Commission there the question of participation in the Australian proposals; this followed earlier overtures from the Government of Cyprus. 
Australia already has comprehensive reciprocal agreements on social security with Britain and New Zealand. The High Commissioners in Australia for those countries were informed by me of the Australian proposals on 8th May 1972, and the question of amendment of the existing agreements was left open. Officials of the British High Commission had earlier made preliminary inquiries. 
A number of countries have already responded favourably to the Australian proposals, while the representatives of a number of other countries are awaiting instructions on the attitudes of their respective Governments. Because of the stage reached in the negotiations with a number of countries, and to avoid any likelihood of prejudicing the possibility of concluding agreements, I believe it to be inappropriate to provide at present the detailed information requested by the honourable member. However, I may say that, of all the countries named above, Luxembourg is the only one which has indicated that it does not wish to enter into an agreement as proposed by Australia. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Under an arrangement between the Department of Social Services and the Welfare Branch of the Department of the Interior, the Welfare Branch will make, in cases of need, immediate cash payments to applicants for social service pen sions or benefits. The Welfare Branch is subsequently re-imbursed from arrears  of  benefit  or  pension, subject to the  applicant's  authority being obtained. 
This arrangement is not regarded as an alternative to prompt action to process claims within my Department. For example, procedures already exist within my Department for immediate payment of widows' pensions where the husband has died. 
As a result of requests made by the States, Directors of Social Services were authorised to make similar arrangements with the appropriate State authorities. 
The information is not readily available. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (J), (2) and (3) Where a pensioner takes in lodgers to obtain company and additional security, money paid for lodging would not be included as income in assessing pension entitlement. However, where the number of lodgers exceeds 5, the question has to be considered whether he is conducting a business, in which case the net income may be taken into account. 
Where a pensioner provides meals, his income is usally assessed on the following basis - 
Bed and breakfast - 10 per cent of the gross amount obtainable when the rooms available to lodgers are fully occupied; 
Full board - 20 per cent of the gross amount obtainable when the rooms available to borders are fully occupied. 
However, these rates are subject to adjustment where this is warranted by the actual position. For example where the pensioner has to meet rental or mortgage payments. 
A flat is not defined in the Act. For administrative purposes a self-contained unit would constitute a flat but whether part of a building is used as a pensioner's home is a matter of fact for determination on the circumstances of the particular case. 
 I move: 
That the  Bill  be now read  a  second time. 
The Budget contains a far-reaching welfare programme, part of which will be implemented by my colleague, the Minister for Health  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson and part of which falls within my own responsibilities. Service pensions, which are administered by my colleague the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten),  will also be increased. 
The social services aspects of the welfare programme are covered by 3 Bills. They are firstly the present Social Services Bill, secondly an Aged Persons Homes Bill and thirdly Aged Persons Hostels Bill. I have already introduced the latter 2 Bills and I now want to summarise the provisions of the Social Services Bill which is now before the House. Under this Bill the standard rate of pension for single people and widows with children is to be increased by $1.75 per week to $20 per week. This increase will apply to approximately 509,000 age pensioners, 112,000 invalid pensioners and 50,000 widow pensioners with children. 
The married rate of pension, which is also payable to widows without children, is to be increased by $1.25 per week to $17.25 per week. This increase will apply to an estimated 324,000 age pensioners, 27,000 invalid pensioners and 43,000 widow pensioners without children. 
A new pension, replacing wife's allowance and called wife's pension, will be paid to the wives of all age and invalid pensioners who do not qualify for a pension in their own right. Thus husbands who now receive age or invalid pensions at the standard rate and their non-pensioner wives will both receive pensions at the proposed married rate of  $17.25  per week. An estimated  31,500  wives will benefit from the introduction of this new pension, of whom  23,500  already receive a wife's allowance at the lesser rate. 
Supplementary assistance is to be doubled, to a maximum of  $4  per week, and, subject to the usual eligibility conditions, will be available to married pensioner couples paying rent. About  108,000  age pensioners,  55,000  invalid pensioners and  23,500  widow pensioners will benefit from this increase. In addition some  58,000  pensioners will become eligible for supplementary assistance for the first time. 
The adult rate for long-term sickness benefit is to be increased by  $1.75  per week to  $20  per week, and the junior rate will be increased by  $1  per week to  $13  per week. Approximately  7,500  beneficiaries will receive these increases. 
In line with the proposed increase in supplementary assistance for pensioners, the rate of supplementary allowance for long-term sickness beneficiaries is to be doubled to a maximum of  $4  per week. This increase will apply to an estimated  2,500  beneficiaries. 
The pensions means test will again be substantially liberalised, by extending the amounts of means as assessed which permit the payment of full pensions to the same levels as the rates of pensions now proposed. The benefit of this principle, will of course, extend throughout the whole pension range because under it the so called 'free area' - that is the amount of means which does not affect the pension rate - will increase from  $10  per week to  $20  per week for those on standard rate and from  $17  per week to  $34.50  per week for those on married rate. 
The amount up to which the computation of a pensioner's income may be reduced for means test purposes for each dependent child is to be increased by  $2  to  $6  per week 
A special concession is to be made for recipients of superannuation payments and annuities. These  3  measures on the means test will benefit  228,000  persons at present receiving age, invalid and widows' pensions at part rates, and will make an estimated  75,000  additional people eligible for a part pension for the first time. Let me now turn to a more detailed description of the features of the Bill. 
Rate of Basic Pension 
The increases now proposed represent the fourth separate occasion on which the rate; of pension have been raised by the McMahon Government in the past  18  months. In March  1971  the standard rate was  $15.50  per week and the combined married rate was  $27.50  per week. With the current increases these rates will have been increased by amounts totalling  $4.50  and  $7  per week respectively. In no other period in Australia's history have increases iti pension rates been on a scale remotely approaching these amounts. 
On previous occasions when introducing measures to increase pension rates I have pointed out to the House the extent to which the increases have represented gains to pensioners in real purchasing power. It is interesting to note that, measured by the consumer price index, prices have risen by under  8  per cent since the March quarter of  1971,  while the pension, taking into account the current proposals, will have risen in the same period by  29  per cent for single people and over  25  per cent for married couples. Expressed another way, if pensions had been increased since March  1971  in accordance simply with rises in the consumer price index, current rates would be  $16.74  per week for single people and  $29.70  per week for married couples in lieu of  $20  and  $34.50  per week respectively as proposed in the Bill before tho House. 
In the  12  months between the  1971  Budget and the  1972  Budget, prices have increased by approximately  6  per cent, but in the same period between the  2  Budgets, the standard rate of pension, even without counting in supplementary assistance, has increased by  15.9  per cent and the married rate pension by  13.1  per cent. If you count in supplementary assistance, the increase is  24.7  per cent for standard rate, and  26.2  per cent for married rate. Th is follows the Government's principles of giving special assistance to those in greatest need, and of continuing to raise the pension faster than the rise in the cost of living, so that its real value - the amount that the pension will purchase - continues to increase. The following tables, which I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard, exemplifies this. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

<graphic href="080131197209210_27_0.jpg"></graphic>

The table which 1 have incorporated shows that the level of purchasing power of the standard rate pension in 1949  -  the last time that an Australian Labor Government was in power - would now be $11.27 as against its present rate of $20 without supplementary assistance or $24 with supplementary assistance. Thus it will be seen that since the last time the Australian Labor Party was in office we have just about doubled the purchasing power of the pension for those who are most in need. If the additional fringe benefits which have been introduced in this period are added in, the comparison becomes more favourable still. I have no doubt that for so long as we remain in office, this process, so beneficial to pensioners, will be continued. 
Special attention will also continue to be given to detecting and eliminating areas of need. In this context the Government is concerned that some couples who, between them, receive only one pension or pension plus wife's allowance sometimes experience financial difficulties if they have no way of supplementing the. payments made by my Department. The Government's decision to extend eligibility for pension at the married rate to the wives of pensioners who are ineligible for a pension in their own right exemplifies the concern shown for people who experience difficulties of the. kind to which I have just referred. It will, of course, be necessary to make, a consequential adjustment in the husband's pension in such cases from the standard to the married rate but the overall position of the couple will improve by up to $8.25 per week where the wife receives at present a wife's allowance, and by up to $16.25 per week in other cases. Another matter of concern to the Government is the increasingly high rents which are required to be met by pensioners who have little, means apart from the pension. We have decided, therefore, to further assist these pensioners by increasing supplementary assistance by $2 per week. The new maximum will be $4 per week. In addition, married pensioner couples with little means and paying rent are to be eligible for supplementary assistance for the first time; payment to be made on the basis of up to $2 per week for each person. 
The Pensions Means Test 
On many occasions over the past 23 years the Liberal-Country Party Government has referred to its policy of raising the general standard of living of pensioners, directing special relief to the areas of greatest need and encouraging thrift, self-help and self-reliance. An integral part of this plan has been the progressive liberalisation of the means test, with the aim of its eventual abolition. That goal is now in sight. The Government has now given a firm commitment that the means test for persons over the age of 65 will be abolished within the next 3 years. The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  has expressed the hope, which I most certainly share, that this abolition will not take the full 3 years. I personally believe it will take, substantially less. However the exact details of the method by which this is to be done are to be considered by an expert committee, which will at the same time examine the possibility of introducing concurrently a scheme of national superannuation. 
The Government is not yet committed to any particular scheme of national superannuation, or indeed, to the principle of introducing it, although the implications of the announcement of the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  are fairly clear. It will be well, however, to have the advice of independent experts before making these farreaching decisions. May I add that, when this committee is established, 1 shall be submitting to it fairly definite proposals - not, of course, on behalf of the Government, which as I have said has given no commitment, but as one of the bases which the committee may examine. Perhaps the committee will polish these proposals up, or it may, in its wisdom, prefer to recommend entirely different ones. The proposals which I shall be submitting to the committee will relate to both form and substance - that is, to both the mechanics of administration and the objectives to be achieved. These 2 matters are, of course, severable; it may be that one of them will commend itself to the committee and the other will not. I do, however, believe that, having had the benefit of considering the various schemes of national superannuation which are in operation in other countries, at least on the score of the mechanics of administration we can propose a device which is inherently superior to that elsewhere available. I will not elaborate on this at the present stage. I hope to say something  ha  regard to it at a future date. 
Let me return to the matter of the liberalisation and abolition of the means test, as summarised in the Treasurer's Budget Speech. As a prelude to the abolition, the 3 measures which I outline earlier are to be introduced immediately. Firstly, the 'free area' - the amount of means which does not affect the pension - is to be doubled. Secondly, the allowance for children in computing means is to be increased from $4 each to $6. Thirdly, there will be a special concession for recipients of superannuation and annuities. Let me deal with the first of these points. The free area' for single means is at present $10 per week. This is to become $20 per week. The 'free area' for married couples' means is at present $17 per week. This is to become. $34.50 per week. It will be noted that the principle has been adopted of making the 'free area' equal to the maximum rate of pension; and since the pension is only reduced by one-half of the excess of means over the 'free area' it follows that a partial pension is payable until means reach 3 times the maximum pension rate. 
The effect of this will be to extend the amounts of means as assessed which permit the payment of full pensions by $520 for single pensioners, including widow pensioners, and by S910 for married couples. Expressed in terms of income this will mean that an age or invalid pensioner without children whose property is less than 5420 in value may have income of up to $20 a week and still receive the full standard rate pension of $20 a week; some pension will be payable until his income reaches S60 a week. A married couple without children whose property is less than $840 in value may have a combined income of up to $34.50 a week, and still receive full pensions of $17.25 a week each; some pension will be paid until their combined weekly income reaches $103.50. Put the other way, where his means consist entirely of property an age or invalid pensioner without children may have assets to the value of $10,800 and receive a full pension; some pension will be payable until his property reaches $31,600 in value. For married couples without children the comparable figures are $18,740 and $54,640. 
A widow with one child whose property does not exceed $4,500 may have income from other sources of up to S20 a week, or up to $26 a week if she receives no income for the child, and still receive the full pension. In the latter case, some pension will be payable until her income reaches $83 a week or $87 a week if the child is under 6 or an invalid child requiring full-time care. If income does not affect the pension she may have property to the value of $12,400 and still receive a full pension; pension cease* to be payable when the value of her property reaches $37,360 or $39,440 if she has a child under 6 or an invalid child. The income limits for widows with more than one child are, of course, correspondingly higher. A widow without children whose property is less than $420 in value may have income of up to $20 a week and still receive the full pension of $17.25 a week; some pension will be payable until her income reaches $54.50 a week. Put the other way, where her means consist entirely of property a widow without children may have assets to the value of $10,800 and still  receive a full pension; some pension will be payable until her property reaches $28,740 in value. 
There are various combinations of income and property in between the figures I have quoted which will permit the payment of a full or part pension. I ask for leave to incorporate in Hansard a 'ready reckoner' setting out the new pension entitlements for age and invalid pensioners. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 

<graphic href="080131197209210_29_0.jpg"></graphic>

Under this Bill, all those who are at present receiving part pensions, and whose means as assessed do not exceed $20 per week for single people or $34.50 per week for married couples will receive full pension. Those part pensioners whose means are between $20 per week and $46.50 per week single or between $34.50 per week and $81 per week married couples will receive substantially increased part pensions, and those who at present receive no pension but whose means lie between $46.50 per week and $60 per week single or between $81 per week and $103.50 per week married couples will be entitled to receive some pension for the first time. Sheltered employment allowances and rehabilitation allowances, payable under the Social Services Act, are linked to the pension rates and recipients of these allowances will, as a result, benefit also from the means test liberalisations I have just outlined. 
At this point I should say that the proposed extension of the means as assessed limits will not cause a corresponding extension of eligibility for fringe benefits such as the benefits of the pensioner medical service, funeral benefits and rebates on telephones, radio and television. The eligibility limits for Commonwealth concessions are not increased when the means test is relaxed but are automatically raised in accordance with increases in the basic rate of pension. The effect of the proposed pension increases is that Commonwealth concessions will now be available to single pensioners with means as assessed below $30 per week and to pensioner couples with means as assessed below $51.50 per week. The Government has given no commitment on the extension of fringe benefits with the eventual abolition of the means test. As the House will recall, the administration of the most important of these lies within the province of my colleague the Minister for Health  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson).  If I remain Minister for Social Services next year I shall be consulting with him to see whether any recommendation can be made to the Government on this matter. 
Turning now to the special concession to be applied for recipients of superannuation payments and annuities, where a pensioner is entitled to receive an income from superannuation or annuity, the annual rate payable will be given a property equivalent for means test purposes by reference to a specific conversion factor contained in a schedule to be attached to the Social Services Act. The conversion factor will provide the present capital value of the superannuation payment or annuity. The conversion of the superannuation or annuity into property will be to the pensioner's advantage in the vast majority of cases but if in any particular case this should not prove to be so the payments will continue to be treated as income. 
As the amount of property to be taken into account in respect of superannuation or annuity will vary with the pensioner's age, it is proposed to review each case on the anniversary of his birthday with a view to making a further increase in pension available. I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard a table showing the conversion factors to be applied for the capitalisation of superannuation payments and annuities. 
 I do not think 1 need delay the House very much beyond endeavouring to summarise some of th: things that have been said and, in passing, thanking honourable members for what they have said about me personally. It is true that this is a far reaching Bill, but it is also true that it is part of a comprehensive plan. It may not always be easy for the outsider to see the way in which we are endeavouring to work towards a full and comprehensive social service structure. But ii he compares the structure as it exists today with what existed 5, 10 and 15 year1? ago he will see that progressively there has been an improvement not only in rates and standards but also in coherence throughout the entire plan. It is not possible, of course, to do everything at once, but I think it would be unreasonable to talk, as members of the Opposition have talked a little, about things being haphazard and by chance and so on. This is not so. The Government is unable to do everything at once, but the Government is working in accordance with a coherent and progressive plan. If honourable members opposite will do us the compliment of looking at the social services as they exist now and then take them 5 years back, take them 10 years back, take them 15 years back and take them 20 years back, they will see that during that time there has been a progressive development. 
If I may have the indulgence of the House to put a commercial over the air, I want to reinforce what we are trying to do about getting knowledge of pension entitlements into every prospective pensioner's hands. Existing pensioners will have their pensions increased automatically in accordance with the provisions of this Bill. In most cases the increase will date from the next pay period after the Bill receives the royal assent, which I hope will be in the next two or three days. The pensions for new pensioners - that is, the people who have no entitlement now but who will get an entitlement to a pension for the first time under this Bill - will date only from the time they make their applications. So I urge them now, as I hope to be urging them through advertisements and through the co-operation of honourable members on both sides with their constituents, to make their applications as soon as possible. The people of whom I am talking are people in the aged group - that is, women over 60 years and men over 65 years - people in the invalid group who have the requisite medical qualification or disqualification, and widows, who include of course deserted wives. 
I ask people in those groups who are not getting pensions at the moment and who feel they may have a pension entitlement to make their applications immediately. They can get an application form from a post office and fill it in. Let them fill it in truthfully. No harm will be done if they have no entitlement, but if they have an entitlement their pension will date from the date of the application. I have spoken of people in the aged, invalid and widowed groups. I speak particularly of single people who have incomes of up to about $3,000 a year. I speak particularly of married couples with an income of up to $5,000 a year. I speak particularly of those whose income is derived in any substantial measure from superannuation. Whatever their range of income, it will pay them to have a look at their circumstances and see whether they are entitled to a pension. If they are in doubt, they should play safe and send the form in as soon as possible. I thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  for allowing me to put that commercial, as it were, over the air. We will make a special effort to see that people who are entitled to a pension under this new legislation draw it as soon as possible. 
The Opposition amendment refers to the poverty line. I will not requote figures, hut let me say that in virtually every case the pension now available from the Department of Social Services is in excess of the socalled poverty line. It will be remembered that in June 1966 Professor Henderson set down a poverty line of $33 which he applied to what he called the standard family, which was a man, wife and 2 children paying rent. That figure of $33 has subsequently been updated to a generally agreed figure of $52 a week. Families of various compositions represent various proportions of the standard family. We can speak of the single pensioner, the married pensioner couple or the widow with one, 2 or 3 children and so on. In virtually every case the provisions in this Bill put them above the poverty line in accordance with that formula - and in many cases substantially above it. 
I turn now to the means test. Members of the Opposition have asked why we did not do something about abolishing the means test earlier. I suppose that in all these things the Treasury is right to impose a certain measure of responsibility. The capacity to do these things depends on the rise in productivity. Throughout the Australian community over the last 23 years there has been a progressive and substantial rise in productivity. It has been a rise which is evidenced - I think we can say this with some degree of pleasure - by the very big increase in average weekly earnings. Productivity has risen, and as it has risen not only has it been possible to raise the real level of the pension, which, as I have said, over the last 23 years has nearly doubled in terms of real purchasing power but also concurrently it has been possible progressively to ease the means test. Now we are seeing virtually the end of it. We are not quite at the end, but the end is in sight. Of course, the Government's programme is not yet a complete programme; there are various loose ends to be tied. I hope it will be my privilege as Minister- 
I know that it is not certain, but I hope that it will be my privilege as Minister for Social Services in the next 3 years to be able to work on this and to finish and carry out the programme. 
Attention was drawn during the course of the debate to the fringe benefits - the pensioner medical service and things of that character. One point which is worth reminding the House of is that the nursing benefits and the system of aged persons homes which are also part of the Government's Budget plans have done a tremendous amount towards easing the anxieties of people who, in their old age, face declining health. This is one matter which is not subject to means test. I would hope that when we come to look at the application of these fringe benefits, although the Government has given no commitment and although I can and will give no commitment in this regard, honourable members will find that in the next 3 years the favourable developments which are already in evidence in this Budget will be yet further improved. 
Reference has been made to national superannuation. Again, the Government has given no firm commitment on this matter, although as I said in my second reading speech the implications in what the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  said in his Budget Speech are clear enough. The Government has not given a formal commitment in this regard but I think that the Treasurer has clearly indicated the Government's preferences in this field. In regard to what I said about the future, I did not take it upon myself to say that I was putting forward something that was better than anything operating overseas, although I did say that if one had the experience of studying what was available overseas one could, I hope, profit from it. But what I did refer to was not on the matter of substance, but on the matter of mechanism, the way of doing these things. I do think that we have here a device, a mechanism - a way not of carrying out an objective but of approaching it - which in my view is superior to anything yet available overseas and which I hope, if it is adopted in Australia, would become the pattern for what might be done overseas. 
This is something which follows from the fact that we have had the advantage of seeing what was done overseas and of studying what has been achieved and the faults and deficiencies of overseas schemes. If we have the results of other people's experiences - if we are standing on other people's shoulders - we should be able to do a little better than they have been able to do, without trying to take any special merit to ourselves in this matter. I do not want to delay the House any more. I think that the debate has been a worthwhile one and I have endeavoured to summarise it. I now leave the matter to the vote of the House. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr Hayden's amendment)  stand part of the question. 
His Excellency the Governor-General is at present in Perth. However, the Bill was flown over to him and I understand that he was pleased to give his assent to it at 4.30 yesterday afternoon. So the Act is now in operation. Existing pensioners will automatically receive their increased pensions. The first payments of the increased age and invalid pensions will be made next Thursday and the first payment of the increased widows' pensions on 10th October. I make the reservation that the superannuation adjustments which will be retrospective to those dates will not be paid until early in the new year because of the difficulty of calculating them. 
I have spoken so far about existing pensioners who will receive their increases automatically. New pensioners, that is, those who become entitled under the new legislation, will receive their pensions from the first pay period after they apply. It is therefor important that they apply as soon as possible. Their eligibility depends on their means as assessed. As honourable members know, this takes account both of property and income. Let me summarise the situation in this way, because it is a matter of some importance: Single men who are aged 65 years and over or are medically qualified to receive an invalid pension should apply if their means as assessed are up to $60 a week. The same is true for single women who are 60 years and over or medically qualified for an invalid pension. For married couples, where the husband is 65 years or over or medically qualified to receive an invalid pension, the limit of means as assessed is $103.50 a week. This is an important figure. In the case of the wives where the husband does not fall into the category of 65 years plus or where he qualifies for an invalid pension- 
I know that this is a lengthy answer but I think it is of interest and importance to many people who would like to hear what the Government is trying- 
I will ask for leave to make a statement as soon as question time has concluded. 
by leave - I apologise for having spoken at some length at question time today, but this is a matter of some interest not only to members of the House but also I think to a wide section of the community outside the House. It is a matter of interest and importance, and I seek to put the record as straight as possible. I have mentioned to the House that the Social Services Bill (No. 4) has now received the royal assent and is in operation. Existing pensioners - age, invalid and widows - will receive their increases automatically. The age and invalid pensioners will receive their increases next pay day, on Thursday next; the widows will receive their increase on 10th October. I mentioned to the House that superannuation adjustments which will date from the royal assent will not be paid for some time because of the clerical work involved, but when they are paid they will be paid retrospectively. 
The important point I want to make relates to new pensioners - that is, the people who were not entitled to a pension before the new Bill became law but who are entitled to a pension under this new Act. Their entitlement will date as from the first pay period after their date of application. It may not always be possible to pay them immediately because honourable members will realise that my officers, who I would say are doing a magnificent job of work in this matter, are still very much overwhelmed by the changes which have taken place as a result of this Budget and the necessary clerical adjustments which have to be made. The payments in cash for new applicants will be made as soon as possible and will be restrospective to the first pay period after their date of application. But, as I have said, it will not be possible to pay them all in cash immediately. It is important, therefore, that people who become newly entitled should make their application as soon as possible. Their eligibility depends on their means as assessed which, as honourable members know, takes account of both their property and their income. 
I turn now to the single people - that is, men aged 65 and over, women aged 60 and over, and single people medically qualified for an invalid pension. All single people should apply if they feel that their means as assessed are less than $60 a week. 1 now speak of married couples. Where the husband is over 65 or is medically qualified for an invalid pension, they both should apply if their combined means as assessed are less than $103.50 a week. In the case of wives who are not married to men who come into this category, that is, husbands not over the age of 65 and who are not medically qualified, those wives who are themselves over 60 or who would be medically qualified for an invalid pension, should apply for their own pension if their combined means as assessed are less than $103.50 a week. Let me reiterate that in the case of married couples where the husband is over 65 or is medically qualified for the invalid pension the wife, irrespective of her age, will now become pensionable. lt may not be realised yet by the House or by people outside the House how far the Government has moved in the liberalisation of the means test. In fact although it may take up to 3 years - I think it will take very much less for abolition of the means test at the age of 65. We have already moved to the point where abolition at the age of 65 will be of much less financial consequence than is generally realised because we have already taken an immense step towards it. I remind the House that many people who fall into the age or invalidity categories I have mentioned, that is, where the man is over 65 or the woman is over 60, will immediately become entitled to a pension even though the husband may still be employed in his normal job. This is something which is not generally realised. I repeat, that where a married couple's means as assessed are less than $103.50 a week they will be eligible for some, not full, supplementary pension. 
I do not mean a supplementary allowance. I mean a pension in supplement to their normal income. This is a major change which 1 draw to the attention of the House and of the people outside it because we want all those people who are eligible to make their applications as soon as possible because their entitlement to a pension will depend upon the date of their application. By publicity of various kinds we hope to get this knowledge out into the community. I ask honourable members on both sides of the House to assist in getting this knowledge out so that all those people who are eligible may apply as soon as possible. Forms are available at post offices. If there is any doubt, people can get in touch with any of our Social Service Department officers from whom they can get further explanation. But I think the general rule is to apply when in doubt. No harm will be done if a person truthfully states his position on the application form. If the application is rejected, well at least no harm will be done. But it may be that people who have an entitlement do not yet realise it and we want to cure this as soon as possible. So I give the slogan: 'When in doubt, apply for the pension and answer the questions truthfully'. 
There is only one other matter to which I want to draw the attention of the House, namely, that Service pensions as distinct from social service pensions are paid by my colleague, the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten).  I understand that the first pay day at the increased rate under the liberalised conditions will be today, and that on existing pensions the increases will be given automatically on the payment which will be going out as o ftoday for Service pensioners. The eligibility for Service pensions as regards means as assessed is virtually the same as for social service pensions but the age limits are in general 5 years less. 
I understand that is so. This is a matter within the administration of my colleague, the Minister for Repatriation, and I think you should ask him for advice on this. I thank the House for allowing me to make this statement which I think will be of vast interest not only to members of this House but also &lt;x&gt; the people outside it. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! Does the honourable member for Sturt seek leave to make a statement? 
I wish to correct a misrepresentation by the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There are 27 branches of the Department of Social Services in New South Wales. Their addresses are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Section 51 of the Commonwealth Constitution empowers the Federal Parliament to legislate in respect of 
Under Placitum (xxiii): Invalid and old-age pensions) 
Under Placitum (xxiia): Maternity allowances, widows' pensions, child endowment, unemployment . . . sickness and hospital benefits . . . benefits to students and family allowances. 
The States Grants (Deserted Wives) Act 1968 provides for Commonwealth grants to the States in respect of approved benefits provided by them for deserted wives and certain other women with children. Grants to  a  State may not exceed one-half of the amount expended by the State on benefits to which the Act applies. 
The view has been taken by this Government, and Its predecessors, that ordinarily it is not reasonable or desirable to accept desertion of less than  6  months' duration as constituting irretrievable and permanent breakdown of a marriage with the wife being regarded as  a  widow. During this initial period of  6  months, assistance is  a  State matter and is also closely related to child welfare responsibilities and functions which are solely  a  prerogative of the States. 
It is true that the Government has accepted the principle of make-up pay for Commonwealth employees' compensation purposes. As a Bill on this matter is to come into the House in order to implement the proposals for raising the rates which are contained in the Treasurer's Budget Speech, and since at the same time it is proposed to make some minor improvements and amendments to the Act, advantage will be taken of this to introduce concurrently the somewhat more important proposal, which the Government ' has endorsed, of accepting the principle of make-up pay for Commonwealth employee's compensation. At present the Bill is with Parliamentary Counsel. I cannot give a guarantee about this, but I would hope to have it later this week. At any rate it will, I anticipate, come into the House before we rise, and I would hope that the Opposition would give it a speedy passage. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Continuous improvement in the quality of service to clients is a major objective being constantly pursued by my Department and progress in achieving this objective depends largely on the maintenance of team-work and co-operation between various specialised sections within the Department. Pensions officers, examiners, social workers, vocational counsellors, etc., have particular roles to perform and in general the intrusion of one group into areas of work that are the particular responsibility of others is not in the interests of departmental efficiency, or of those whom the Department exists to serve. Nor is it in our clients' interest to give them premature advice as to the likely result of their claim. With this background in mind, the officer-in-charge of social work in my Department in Queensland, herself a most respected and experienced member of the social work profession, issued the instruction referred to mainly for the guidance of newly, appointed and relatively inexperienced social workers. As the Honourable Member is well aware, it is the policy of the Department to give every possible help to all Members of the Parliament in relation to representations made concerning social service matters. There are, however, established procedures for this purpose and these do not include the release of departmental papers such as the instruction referred to in this Question. 
The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
and (2) As at the present time there are about 4,300 pensioners in the Division of Burke which represents approximately 1.5 per cent of the total number of pensioners in the State of Victoria. In the development of plans for decentralisation of the work of my Department the needs of residents of the Electoral Division of Burke will not be overlooked but will, along with other areas, receive the closest consideration. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1) Yes. 
Approval has now been given to the development of rehabilitation clinics in Wollongong, Ballarat, Geelong, Rockhampton, Port Pirie, Canberra, Darwin and Launceston, as soon as the necessary resources are available. 
It is true that many people who were not eligible for pensions earlier have become eligible for at least a part pension under the legislation introduced by this Government in association with the Budget. I know that the House will appreciate that my Department is inundated with applications and that my officers are working under great strain. I want to take this opportunity to say how well I believe they are sustaining this extra burden. May I say that in the last week applications for pensions have exceeded the normal applications by some 300 per cent. The practice is this: Where people become eligible under the Budget, their applications are held undealt with from the time of the introduction of the Budget until the time of the passing by the Parliament of the necessary implementing legislation. This practice has been followed. 
With regard to applications made prior to the delivery of the Budget Speech, we have in New South Wales and Victoria large computers and we are able to have a list of people who have applied during the preceding 6 months. Those people will  be  recontacted because their circumstances may well have changed during that 6 months. In  other  States we do not as yet have the same computer facility. So although my officers will do their best to ensure that justice is done and pensions are payable as soon as possible my strong advice to anybody in doubt as to his pension eligibility would be to get a form and reapply. No harm would be done by doing this; he may advantage himself. I suggest very strongly that anybody who thinks that he may have a pension entitlement under the new legislation, who is not receiving a pension and who has not made a recent application would be serving his own interests by reapplying and getting his application into the hands of the Department as soon as possible. If I may use a phrase which I used on television recently, when in doubt get the forms, fill them in truthfully and bung them in. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now  read a  second time. 
This is the fourth measure that I have been privileged to introduce during the current session of Parliament as part of the Government's far-reaching programme for the purpose of improving the health and welfare of aged people. The 3 previous Bills that I have already introduced, and which have been approved by the House comprise, first, the Social Services Bill, under which pension rates have been substantially increased, the rate of supplementary assistance has been doubled, the significant liberalisation has been introduced into the means test; secondly, the Aged Persons Homes Bill, under which the rate of personal care subsidy has been doubled; and, thirdly, the Aged Persons Hostels Bill, under which a 3-year crash programme has been established with the objective of cleaning up the waiting lists of people without asset backing who seek hosteltype accommodation in non-profit aged persons homes. In addition, the Minister for Health  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  is introducing 3 new measures: Firstly, to give additional assistance to chronically ill aged patients in nursing homes; secondly, to increase the Commonwealth subsidy paid to organisations providing home nursing services; and, thirdly, a new domiciliary care benefit to encourage families and relatives to accept responsibility in their homes for the provision of professional nursing care and supporting services required by an aged infirm person, in order to reduce the demand for nursing home treatment. At the same time, the Minister for Health and myself are commencing discussions with the States for the purpose of working out with them a co-operative scheme for improving throughout the community the services which are available to the sick and the elderly who still live in their own homes. 
The purpose of the Bill I now place before the House is to increase the assistance given by the Commonwealth to what are generally known as Meals on Wheels services. These organisations, honourable members will no doubt agree, play an important role in looking after the health and welfare of aged or invalid people in their own homes, not only by ensuring that they obtain adequate meals for a nominal charge, but also by providing a necessary contact between people who may be frail and lonely and supportive services such as home nursing, paramedical, housekeeping, emergency transport, shopping, gardening, hairdressing, chiropody, library and general counselling. Meals on Wheels organisations were established originally without Commonwealth aid by voluntary organisations whose members saw the potential good which they could do in the community, and the system is a most excellent example of personal initiative, purposefully applied for a charitable object. The Delivered Meals Subsidy Act, which was introduced in 1970, assists the establishment, expansion, improvement and maintenance of these Meals on Wheels services by providing a subsidy on the basis of 10c for every meal delivered to aged or invalid people by an eligible organisation during the previous calendar year. Currently some 4 million meals are being supplied annually entailing expenditure from the Commonwealth Budget of $400,000 at the existing rate of 10c per meal. While no exact figures are available, it is thought that an expansion of 6 million meals a year would adequatey meet Australian needs, and I am hopeful that this target will be reached within the next 3 years. May I express my thanks to such bodies as the Council on the Ageing, which have assisted my Department in reviewing the Meals on Wheels services available throughout Australia, with the objective of pin-pointing those areas which do not as yet receive a service which we would regard as fully adequate. 
There has been a highly satisfactory response to the Commonwealth's initial subsidy scheme. Since its inception, nearly 100 new meals-on-wheels services have been commenced and it would appear that a reasonably adequate coverage is provided throughout the metropolitan areas and in most of the provincial cities. It is known, as I have said, that there are still some gaps in the services and that some organisations are unable to provide what they would regard as an adequate service, either in respect of the number of needy people supplied with meals or the number of days per week on which meals are delivered. This is due partly to the difficulties experienced in obtaining and retaining the ser vices of sufficient voluntary workers, particularly those with cars. I know of tha efforts which are being made to meet these needs, and the Government wants to help those who are doing so much on their own account. Another limiting factor has been the difficulty that some organisations find in obtaining a reliable and economic source of meals, with the potential to meet demand for meals by more people. In this regard I would like to pay tribute to the major contribution being made by hospital kitchens. With the increase in senior citizen centres and centres of that character, their kitchens also become available for meals on wheels services. In a large number of cases they have been providing adequate and wholesome meals for as little as 25c. 
Due to rising costs, however, many of these sources of meals have found it necessary to increase their charges, and this has made it difficult for some meals on wheels organisations to maintain their charges to recipients at a reasonable level. The legislation now before the House will help to meet this situation by increasing the subsidy per meal from 10c to 15c. The next annual payment of subsidy will fall due in January 1973 and will cover meals served during the calendar year ending on 31st December 1972. The Bill provides that payment at the increased rate will commence in January 1973 and apply to all eligible meals served since 1st January 1972. 
The Bill also provides for an additional subsidy of 5c per meal, making a total subsidy of 20c, to organisations which undertake to include with each meal approved types and quantities of fresh fruit or fruit juice or a fresh tomato. The extra subsidy will apply from a date approved by the Director-General, which of course will not be earlier than the date of royal assent to this Bill. The purpose of this provision is to counteract a possible shortage of ascorbic acid, also known as vitamin C, to recipients of meals on wheels. Ascorbic acid is relatively stable in dry form, but it deteriorates rapidly when it is moist and particularly when it is moist and warm. Quantity-food preparation is known to destroy a large percentage of the vitamin C content of food and when such meals are also overheated in order to be delivered hot by meals on wheels services and are kept in containers during transport they are particularly susceptible to loss of vitamin C. Observations based largely on the measurement of ascorbic acid in their blood plasma indicate that many elderly people suffer from a deficiency of vitamin C which is sufficient to depress their general state of health. In some extreme cases old people have been reported to be below the accepted scurvy level of 0.01 milligrams of vitamin C per 100 millilitres of blood plasma. In this regard I make special mention of the help that has been given by  Dr Woodhill  and  Dr Nobile  in making these observations and in suggesting this course of action. The most practical way of counteracting this deficiency in recipients of meals on wheels is considered to be by ensuring that they receive an adequate ration of fresh fruit or fruit juice with a sufficiently high vitamin C content. 
As a random example of what might provide an adequate ration of vitamin C, it has been estimated that elderly people dependent on bulk-cooked food should be provided with 12 ounces of orange juice or suitable substitute each week. Cost and seasonal factors will, of course, influence the availability of some types of fresh fruit. Because of this my Department will consult with an expert in nutrition and dietetics in order to compile a schedule of the different types of fruit and fruit juice which provide an adequate level of vitamin C, indicating the necessary intake of each type of fruit and fruit juice. Australia is fortunate in having available from its own resources the citrus fruit and other products which are the best natural sources of ascorbic acid. I mention citrus fruit but tomato and the tropical fruits mango, pineapple and paw paw are other sources. That is not necessarily an exhaustive list. This additional fresh fruit subsidy will be made available to all organisations conducting approved delivered meals services. It will be kept in mind that a type of fruit or fruit juice which appeals to one person may not appeal to another and that it would therefore be desirable for the organisations to be able to offer a reasonable choice to recipients. One point about meals on wheels is that not only should they be nutritious and health-giving but also people should enjoy them. I think the House would agree with this. 
Perhaps I should mention that medical opinion is unanimous in stating that no ill- effects can result from an overdose of vitamin C and the view is widely held that the raising of ascorbic acid levels can be generally beneficial. 
Our vitamin C programme will be kept under constant review in co-operation with the Commonwealth Department of Health. If it appears desirable to take other measures in addition to those proposed in this Bill we will act on the experience we gain through the operation of our present proposal. It is estimated that the cost of increasing the delivered meals subsidy from 10c to 15c per meal will be $200,000 in 1972-73, with cumulative increases in subsequent years as services are expanded and extended. If all organisations currently approved for subsidy agree to deliver fruit or fruit juice the additional cost will be a further $200,000 in a full year; approximately $40,000 in 1972-73. 
Total expenditure under the Delivered Meals Subsidy Act for 1972-73 is therefore expected to be $640,000 rising to upward of $800,000 in the full year 1973-74. In terms of today's social welfare expenditure this is not a major item, but the importance of adequate nutrition to elderly people living alone cannot be overstated. As I told the House when introducing the Aged Persons Homes Bill recently, one of the most important aspects of this year's comprehensive programme to improve the health and welfare of aged people is to encourage and assist people who might otherwise be admitted prematurely or unnecessarily to nursing homes or other similar institutions to remain in their domestic environment for as long as possible. This Bill makes a significant contribution towards that objective. 
May I finally - and in this I would hope I can speak for all members of the House - express gratitude to the organisations and splendid bands of volunteers who have initiated and maintained the meals on wheels services throughout Australia. Without their efforts and dedication, it would have been impossible to have achieved what we now see in operation. This is an excellent example of private initiative, being helped and accelerated by Commonwealth assistance - a pattern which, I believe, should be encouraged in many aspects of Social Service, where the personal touch is needed and where personal involvement pays such big dividends. I commend the Bui to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The submission made by the Australian Council of Social Service was received on 18th May 1972. 
Many of the proposals in the submission were made in  a  form which does not admit of accurate costing. In regard to others, the Budget proposals of the Government included related items which were not included in the Council's submission, but could affect their costing. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and  (2): 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2 (a)) It is true that some appointment notices do include the words referred to in the Question. This wording was added as the result of legal advice received in May 1971 but the question of whether relatives may act as interpreters for pension claimants is now being reviewed. (2 (b)) From a survey conducted on behalf of the Department of Immigration in August 1971 it was found that the use of professional interpreters was extremely rare. My Department has received no complaints about interpreters missing work. (2 (c)) The amount of income or assets which applicants for pension may have and still be eligible for a pension are set out in pamphlets issued by my Department, and reference to the pamphlet on Age Pensions will show, for instance, that a single person can receive up to $60 per week income or own assets to the value of $31,600 before becoming ineligible for, at least, a part pension. The corresponding figures for married couples are $103,50 per week combined income, or $54,640 combined assets. (2 (d)) Interpreters from the Department of Immigration, the Migrant Information service of the Commonwealth Bank and the Department of Social Services are in fact, used at interviews with claimants for pension, where this service is requested. 
The answer to both parts of the honourable members question is yes. The travel concession certificates vary from State to State. I understand that in New South Wales we will be issuing plastic covers for these certificates during the month of December to cover the 1973 certificates. In Victoria, where the present certificates are current to June of next year, the plastic covers will be issued early next year. In Queensland the position does not arise because the travel certificates in that State are issued not through my Department but, I think, through the Brisbane City Council. In South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania, where there are different sizes of certificates, I understand that the plastic covers will be issued during the month of January next year. Although this may seem a small point, it is of some importance to pensioners and in these small matters my officers are particularly vigilant. Even in these small matters, they are looking to what can be done to help pensioners. These plastic covers will be available in accordance with the time-table I have laid down. 
Pursuant to section 122 of the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Acts 1971, I present the first annual report of the Commissioner for Employee's Compensation for the year ended 30th June 1972. 
For the information of honourable members, I present lists of sheltered workshops approved under the Sheltered Employment (Assistance) Act 1967-1970 as at 31st August 1972. 
I move: That the  Bill be  now  read a  second time. 
It is with considerable satisfaction that I introduce this Bill to amend the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Act 1971. This satisfaction derives from the fact that the legislation goes far beyond the improvements foreshadowed by the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  in the Budget Speech. Indeed, for the Commonwealth, we propose to break entirely new ground. The main purpose of this Bill is to provide for the payment of compensation at the rate of full sick pay to Commonwealth employees during total incapacity following a compensable injury. The payment will be made at this rate for the first 26 weeks of a period or of the aggregate of periods up to 26 weeks in respect of any one injury. 
Honourable members will recall that 'injury' in the relevant context of the Act - that is, in section 29 - carries an expanded meaning and includes the contraction of a disease or the aggravation, acceleration or recurrence of a disease. They will also be aware that the Act applies to the employees of prescribed authorities of the Commonwealth and to other classes of persons who are not strictly employees. Examples of these latter classes of persons are holders of statutory offices and prescribed classes of persons such as school cadets and person who render voluntary assistance to the Commonwealth. Altogether the Acts apply to more than 425,000 persons. The Acts are also of world wide application and cover employees in some 70 Commonwealth posts scattered around the globe. 
The Act which came fully into operation only on 1st September 1971 constitutes a complete compensation code and replaced an Act that, with amendments, had been in operation since 1930. This new compensation code was vastly more beneficial than the legislation which it replaced and I am pleased to report to the House that it was brought into effect smoothly and without disruption to the then existing case load. If I may interpose, I tabled this morning the first annual report. 
The amending Bill now before the House marks a further significant breakthrough in this field of benevolent legislation. The compensation that will  be  payable to a totally incapacitated employee for the first 26 weeks of a period or for periods aggregating 26 weeks will be at the full sick pay rate that would be payable to him apart from the compensation legislation. At the conclusion of the 26 weeks the employee will be entitled to weekly compensation payments at the increased weekly rates provided by this amending legislation. By utilising a proportion of any sick leave credit available to him the employee may then build up the weekly compensation payment during this subsequent period to the rate he would have received as sick pay had compensation not been paid. If an employee's conditions of employment do not provide for sick pay, the rate of compensation payable during the first 26 week period or aggregate of periods to which 1 have referred will be at a rate equal to his basic earnings for the work he would have performed but for the injury. 
Of next importance to the adoption of the full pay principle, the Bill makes substantial increases in existing monetary benefits. These monetary benefits were last increased on 25th May 1971 and were then incorporated in the new compensation code when it became fully operative on 1st September last year. The new code included additional benefits and these rates are also increased by this Bill which in addition, provides for some machinery amendments of a minor nature. 
Under the Bill the basic lump sum payable to dependants upon the death of an employee is being increased from $13,500 to $14,500. A corresponding increase from $13,500 to $14,500 will be made in respect of the maximum lump sum payment for the more serious scheduled injuries. Lump sum payments for the less serious scheduled injuries will be proportionately increased as will those in respect of loss of the genitals, the permanent loss of the capacity to engage in sexual intercourse, facial disfigurement and total loss of the sense of taste or smell. 
Following the period for which full sick pay is payable the Bill provides for the weekly payment in total incapacity cases to be increased from $35 a week to $43 for a single employee, an increase of 23 per cent. The latter amount will be supplemented by $11 a week for a dependent spouse in lieu of $8.50 a week as at present. This is an increase of 29 per cent. A further $5 a week remains payable for each dependent child. Where an employee requires the constant assistance of an attendant, the weekly amount of $8 payable to him will be increased to $9. The present limitation of $150 in any one case in respect of provision or modification of certain aids, appliances and equipment will be increased from $150 to $350. 
I come now to the more - important df the machinery amendments included in the Bill. For accuracy in interpreting the word overtime when determining average weekly earnings of an employee, the term will be defined to include shift duty, weekend duty, holiday duty and excess travelling time. The Bill amends the provision which excludes seamen from the application of the Act and ensures that such seamen to whom the Seamens Compensation Act does not apply are covered by the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Act if they are employees within the meaning of this Act. As a consequence of this amendment, it has been necessary to include transitional provisions in the Bill to ensure that any cases unintentionally excluded from the application of the principal Act at the date of its proclamation on 1st September 1971 are now brought within the scope of the Act, rather than remain indefinitely under the. ex-gratia approval which was extended to such cases as an interim measure. 
The transitional provisions also provide that between a period commencing on the proclaimed date of the principal Act and ending immediately before royal assent is given to this amending legislation - that is, during the transitional period, anything that was done by, on behalf of, to or in relation to, such a seaman, as a claimant for compensation has effect as if it was done under the principal Act. Among other things, this has the effect of restoring to any seamen involved, all rights accruing under the Act, including the rights to have their cases referred to a compensation tribunal or to make application to a prescribed court for judicial review of their claims. 
The Act now provides that attendances at certain places are to be regarded as employment for the purposes of attracting compensation cover. This Bill now ensures that cover is extended to employees at living accommodation such as PMG work camps, where the place of employment is geographically situated outside such living accommodation at which employees are required by their employment to reside. Also, the Bill remedies the situation under the Act where an employee though properly excluded from cover during his attendance at his own separate living accommodation, such as married quarters, is not so excluded during his attendance at the separate living accommodation of another employee. 
One other minor change will be made where civil damages awarded are reduced because of contributory negligence on the part of the employee. The Act provides that in these cases, the amount of compensation recoverable from damages should be reduced in the same proportion as the damages were reduced. The intention was that the amount of compensation to be recovered from damages should not exceed the amount of the damages recovered. However, the Act does not correctly apply this principle and could place some cases where there was no contributory negligence in a less favourable position than other similar cases where there was contributory negligence on the part of the employee. The Bill removes this anomaly. The increases in the rates of monetary benefits, to which I have referred, will apply from the date of the royal assent. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, in little over 16 months this Parliament has completely remodelled the scheme of Commonwealth employees' compensation. Perhaps, more correctly, I should say we have created an entirely new scheme. The introduction of full sick pay during a period of total incapacity is the rounding off of what was already a most comprehensive code. I have heard voices raised to the effect that there will be no incentive for an injured worker to return to work. I would point out to the House that last year we wrote into the leg islation provisions covering rehabilitation and vocational training. These will play their part in restoring injured employees to their maximum working capacities. In any event, I have confidence in the integrity of our Commonwealth employees and of the medical profession to ensure that no unfair advantage is taken of the very generous provisions the Government is asking the Parliament to adopt. I commend the Bill to the House and trust that it will be given a speedy passage. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read  a  second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to make an amendment to the United States Naval Communication Station (Civilian Employees) Act 1971 consequent upon the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill 1972. As honourable members know, the United States Naval Communications Station (Civilian Employees) Act 1971 extends to civilian employees employed by the United States in connection with the station the terms of the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Act 1971 as if they were employees of the Commonwealth. 
To extend to these employees of the United States the new benefit of compensation at the rate of full sick pay that is provided for in the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill 1972 it is necessary to amend the Schedule to the United States Naval Communication Station (Civilian Employees) Act 1971. The Bill provides accordingly. The Bill will come into effect on the day on which the Compenstaion (Commonwealth Employees) Bill 1972 comes into operation. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Clyde  Cameron) adjourned. 
 in reply - One is always glad to hear cheers from the ranks of Tuscany, even when they are muted and with appropriate reservations. I do not think the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  realises the extent to which the Meals on Wheels organisation is dependent upon and makes use of voluntary services. It is a good example of 2 things: First, it is a service initiated from outside the Government by private people where the Government has come in and helped with additional funds in order to accelerate its growth. Second, it is a service which remains dependent upon voluntary aid. It is not true that the service is confined to wealthy localities. It and other services have been extended preferentially into the poorer localities. For that I want to pay a tribute to the people who have operated the delivered meals on wheels service and have extended it in accordance with need. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
 I listened with interest to my friend, the honourable, member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)- 
Sit down. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Wentworth)  adjourned. 
Sitting suspended from 6.14 to 8 p.m. 
Minister for Social Services (11.15) - I do not think there is much need for me to reply to the remarks made by my friend the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh). 
1 assure the honourable member that there is no need for me to reply on behalf of my colleague the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten)  because the honourable member convicted himself when he started speaking. The honourable member said that the Minister and the Government have nothing to be proud of. As a matter of fact, the Minister earlier this evening quoted the best authority, the returned soldiers' organisations themselves, as saying that this was the best Budget for returned soldiers that has yet been introduced. I will just let the matter stand at that. 
I want to turn, if I may, to social services and ' what has been said about this subject tonight. What is quite remarkable is that the matters raised tonight have not been major matters. I am not saying that although they are comparatively small matters they are not important to the people concerned. Even though a person may be in an exceptional position his or her own experience is important, and 1 do not try to denigrate them on that ground. But what I say is that the members of the Opposition have been talking about only the little fringes of social services. They have had to do this because that is all that is left to talk about. The major improvements in social services have been effected in this Budget and in the Budgets that preceded it. It is usually agreed that so far as social services are concerned this Budget has made greater advances than any previous Budget. 
Let us just find the evidence of this in the remarks that were made by members of the Opposition tonight on the subject of social services. Honourable members opposite have not been able to deal with major questions because there are no major questions left for them to deal with. They have been speaking of minor matters. There are still, and there always will be, minor matters in which there can be improvements. I have no doubt that as we go forward into our next term of office there will be many things that we will continue to do and that the momentum of improvement in social services will be fully and completely continued. 
Let me take, for example, what was said by honourable members opposite about unemployment benefits. We were told that there had not been a rise in unemployment benefits in this Budget. But honourable members opposite may have forgotten that it was only last February that the greatest rise in unemployment benefits in the history of the Commonwealth of Australia was given. Let me compare unemployment benefits that are given now with what they were under the last beneficent and benevolent Labor Government. Luckily that Government was in office a long time ago and no Labor Government is likely to have another term of office. The basic rate of unemployment benefit now is $17 whereas under the last Labor Government it was $2.50. The rate of benefit now for a wife is $8 and under that benevolent last Labor Government it was $2. The benefit for the first child now is $4.50- 
Okay. The rate for the first child now is $4.50 and under the last beneficient Labor Government it was 50 cents. For every child after the first child the benefit now is $4.50 and under that last beneficient Labor Government it was nothing at all. These are the facts. Honourable members opposite say: 'Let us come up to date'. Since the time the last Labor Government mismanaged Australia there have been immense advances. Of course, things are now much better. Honourable members on the opposite side of the House now tell us: 'It's time'. It was time then, was it not? When they talk about it's being time, they should realise how great the advances have been since Labor was last in office. 
What is much more important than this is that under that last beneficent Labor Government the standard rate of unemployment was 5 per cent. The Australian Labor Party spokesman on these matters said in the House - it is in Hansard - that as far as Labor was concerned, 5 per cent of unemployment was virtually full employment. That was the Labor Party standard. It is not our standard. It is true that at the present time in the Labor governed States of Western Australia, South Australia and Tasmania the percentage is somewhat higher than in the rest of Australia. But in the Liberal and Country Party governed States the percentage is much lower. 
The relevant Bill received the royal assent on 27th September. I think that 6,000 applications were received in the first week after that date, 12,000 in the next week, 15,000 in the third week and 16,000 in the week just closed. This would contrast with something between 2,500 and 2,700 as the normal rate of applications each week. Therefore one would say that since the Act came into operation something like 38,000 extra applications already have been received. It is impossible to say exactly to what extent the advertising has contributed towards this, but in my view it contributed substantially, and is entirely justified. It is desirable that the increase in the number of applications should occur. May I note with some regret that members of the Opposition have endeavoured to prevent this advertising going out and have been quite unjustfiably critical of it. 
How will I substantiate it? As it happens I have the documents in front of me which will substantiate exactly what I have said and, since I have been asked by the Opposition to do so, I will have much pleasure in quoting from those documents. On 20th September last the honourable member for Oxley wrote to me what I can describe only as a smarmy letter. 
In caseI have misconstrued it I will be quite happy to have it incorporated in Hansard, if the House will permit me to do so. I think I am justified in describing it as an extremely smarmy letter, and in it the honourable member for Oxley said: 
Finally, can you arrange for copies of all advertising material to be made available for scrutiny by the Leader of the Opposition and myself before the material is used. I feel this request is necessary and ought to be acceded to because there are many suspicious minds, not among the Opposition members of course, who harbour the hunch that the Government is going to usetaxpayers money for propaganda purposes rather than straight out information purposes-- 
If it is necessary for a long answer to be given, the proper procedure is for the Minister to indicate that at the end of question time he will seek leave to make a statement. 
We know that the Minister for Social Services infringes this provision regularly. 
I think that the honourable member's memory must be at fault because I did answer that telegram. I am sorry if my reply was not delivered, but I will take appropriate steps to see that the matter is checked. I now take the opportunity of putting some figures before the House, if the House is interested in them. If the honourable member will remember, in his letter he said that he had information, from what he described as reliable departmental sources', that the cost involved was $160,000. Actually, the cost was $76,000. In addition to that an amount of about $20,000 was spent on supplementary advertising in regard to the rather complicated matter of superannuation. But this subsequent amount came out of the normal annual vote. 
I draw attention to 2 things which I think are important. Firstly, the concessions made in this Budget were more far reaching than those made in a couple of earlier Budgets. For that reason it was necessary to give the concessions greater publicity. The Government really is trying to pay pensions to all those entitled to them. Apparently the Opposition does not want this to occur because it is quite ready to sacrifice the interests of potential pensioners for what it regards as a political gain. It does not want pensioners to apply before the election. I justify entirely the expenditure on this publicity by the results that have been achieved and the very large flood of applications for pensions that have been received. 
However, there is a more important point that I should draw to the attention of the House, and I ask that it be taken seriously. The honourable member cast a slur on the officers of my Department because he implied very clearly that he had been receiving underhand and surreptitious information from my Department. As it happened, of course, the information which he alleged he had received was entirely wrong. I defend the officers of my Department. I do not believe that they did give to the honourable member for Oxley this surreptitious and underhand information. But what I do say is that members of the Opposition should be a little careful about the way in which they try to traduce by implication members of the Commonwealth Public Service. I have every confidence in my officers and I believe that, if these kinds of statements are credited - I believe that they will not be credited - they can end only in casting some kind of smear and slur on my Department. I believe that the officers of my Department do perform their duties honourably, and effectively, in spite of what members of the Opposition have implied. 
I wish to amplify an answer that I gave earlier. The honourable member for Oxley said that he had had no reply to a telegram he sent to me. I now have the file. I find he did send a telegram to me from Canberra on 2nd October. It was retransmitted on 3rd October. I was in Rockhampton. I replied by telegram through my Department on 3rd October. My Department has minuted the file: This telegram to  Mr Hayden  was phoned at 3.5 p.m. on 3rd October 1972'. It was sent from Rockhampton to  Mr W.  Hayden, M.P., 60a Limestone Street, Ipswich. 
The Government is unable to accept the amendments. I think the Opposition has perhaps been a little ungenerous in this matter. This is a Bill which follows the request made by  Mr Souter  particularly of the Australian Council of Trade Unions and by members of the Commonwealth Public Service organisations. It is the most generous legislation which exists for the Commonwealth Public Service or any State Public Service and as such one would have . thought that the Opposition would have welcomed it in rather more glowing terms than it has. I would not say for one moment that this is legislation which will always stand and I find myself in some sympathy with the view expressed by the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  - that later on in the next Parliament the Government will be thinking, I am sure, of further amending not only this legislation but bringing in much more comprehensive legislation. This is something which the Government will have in mind. It will not reject or be unreasonable about these things but I think that the advances made by this Bill are very considerable. 
There is just one thing that 1 would draw to the attention of the House, that is, that when the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  praised the provisions that are made in communist countries for example, he forgot - and perhaps the House might be reminded - that in Australia we have- 
No. You have it wrong. In Committee you can refer to a debate in the House. Let me correct the honourable member on that.  His  memory is failing him a little. If I may say so with all due respect to the honourable member, he forgets that in this country we have more generous provisions in regard to widow pensions for all widows who satisfy the means test and invalid pensions for all invalids who satisfy the means test than are available in most other countries and if there are to be injuries - and injuries do occur - there is to that extent universal compensation in Australia to an extent and of a character which I think does not exist in any other country. Perhaps honourable members on the other side of the House have forgotten this. 
Having said that, let me say that I think there may be a case to be made out in the future for integrating into, by world standards, our very generous system of invalid pensions and widow pensions some kind of further automatic compensation for injury. As one who hopes in the next term of office to have some opportunity of rethinking the whole of the rehabilitation system, invalid pensions and compensation for injury, I feel that the matters brought forward should not be rejected out of hand. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As a result of the amendments to the Social Services Act which came into operation on 27th September 1972, married couples, both pensioners, became entitled subject to conditions prescribed in Division 4a of Part III of the Act, to supplementary assistance for the first time. Supplementary assistance was paid on the next pay-day, 5th October, to those married pensioners who were eligible on the basis of information last supplied by them to the Department. They were advised of the grant in the following terms: 
Because of changes in the relevant conditions, you are now eligible to receive supplementary assistance, provided you are paying rent, and this has been included in your new rate of pension. If you are not paying rent, you should notify this office immediately.' 
Overpayments will not occur provided pensioners comply wilh the terms of the Act. 
The obligation of pensioners in receipt of supplementary assistance to notify the Department if they have ceased to pay rent is a statutory obligation imposed by section 30b of the Act. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  1(a) No specific allocation was made for advertising the new social service benefits and entitlements outlined in the 1972-73 Budget. However an estimated $22,186 is expected to be spent on such advertising from funds allocated for the 1972-73 financial year for general Departmental advertising. A further $83,000 has been approved for expenditure on advertising the changes in social services legislation. 1(b) The following information on moneys expended, which may be subject to minor variation, relate to 2 separate advertising campaigns. The first, between 4th and 8th October, covered the general eligibility conditions for pensions. The second between 11th and 15th October, was directed at superannuitants and others entitled  to  concessional treatment. 
Answering the latter part of the honourable member's question first, I have not in my mind details of the Duff case which he mentions. I will certainly examine the matter in accordance with his request and will give him an answer as soon as I have had an opportunity to look at the papers. In regard to the earlier part of his question, I am hoping to visit the Shortland area in the next day or so. It depends a little on the programme in this House. I hope very much to have an opportunity to address the pensioners in his electorate and to let them know the immense improvements which are in this year's Budget and the way in which the Government has provided a comprehensive programme for the help of the ailing aged which will make our system not merely a good one but the best in the world. I look forward very much to stating these facts to the pensioners at Dudley, or to pensioners in any part of Australia whom I may have an opportunity of addressing. 
In regard to the care of deserted wives, the honourable member may recall that this is a State and not a Commonwealth function. Some time ago I brought in a Bill in which the Commonwealth Government undertook to pay to the States one half of the costs that they incurred in this field. I do not know whether the Commonwealth should take over this function from the States or not. I know that honourable members opposite feel that the Commonwealth should take over all functions from the States and effectively abolish the States. I know that that is their policy. As I understand it, it is not the policy of the Liberal Party. This is one of the distinct differences between our parties. However, I have under consideration at the present time the possibility of reducing from 6 months to 3 months the period following desertion before a wife qualifies for a pension. This is a human problem which we are looking at with the benefit of experience which has been gained from New Zealand and other places. 
Well, in most cases of desertion, I am glad to say, the husband does return and until there is some clarification and crystallisation of the position it is in the interests of the families concerned that the administration be done at the grass roots level. The States have the machinery to do this; the Commonwealth has not. I do not want to set up a large organisation which duplicates the machinery of the States. 
I think a total of 37 countries have been approached in this regard. I hope that agreement will be concluded shortly at least with Malta, Greece and Italy, as I understand the situation. I think there may be one or 2 other countries, but certainly in the case of those countries the substantial points have been agreed and the matter is, as my colleague the Minister for Foreign Affairs said, now in the hands of the legal draftmen for finalisation. 
The criteria depend partly on the family circumstances and partly on the availability of work and it is not possible to lay down hard and fast rules in regard to them. The view is generally taken that where a man has family commitments he should not be asked to take work in another area before a reasonable time has elapsed. This is generally regarded very liberally by my Department in accordance with the family circumstances. Regard is also had to the distance of travel required and similar circumstances. However, for a single man the criteria are imposed with much less flexibility. If the honourable member will be good enough to give me details of the Warburton Cases he has in mind I will certainly have a look at them to see whether I can help. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  I seek leave to make a short statement arising from an answer I gave to a question asked this morning. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
Perhaps this would be a convenient time to suspend the sitting. I could make the statement when it is resumed. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
The honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  at question time this morning asked me a question regarding unemployment benefit for certain people at Warburton. Subsequently he was good enough to supply me with the names of the persons he had in mind. I looked into the matter and I now have the departmental file with me. I find that the action taken by my Department in this case was quite reasonable. The people concerned were living in a group of approximately 12 persons under the control of a married couple. I must say that the departmental note in regard to their living conditions is that the place was well run. There is no complaint in that regard. The members of the group were interviewed and the report of that interview reads: 
Each member of the group expressed the same ideals, i.e. communal living and assisting the group as a whole, together with a desire to escape our type of existence and establish cottage industries in a rural setting. 
A perusal of the benefit papers would seem to indicate that most of these people are either voluntarily unemployed or unemployed through misconduct. The report continues: 
Indeed, they could be accepted as having deliberately placed themselves in a situation where they would be unlikely to obtain work. It is felt that a group of people having  no  means of transport who move into a remote ama where there is little chance of employment in order to set up their own community could hardly be accepted as having taken reasonable steps to obtain work. 
These people are not long term residents of the area. They are people who went into that isolated area voluntarily. I am not in any way trying to criticise their decision to do this. They have a perfect right to do this if they feel so inclined but, having done this, they do not have a right to claim the unemployment benefit. I think my Department is perfectly right in refusing them the unemployment benefit under these circumstances. They were not taking reasonable steps to obtain work. I am not trying to pass any judgment on their decision to retire from the normal life of the community and to try to set up on their own outside that normal life. That is their decision. They are perfectly entitled to make that decision. But having made that decision, they are not entitled to ask the remainder of the community to assist them with the unemployment benefit. In my view the honourable member for Melbourne Ports - I was about to say that I am perfectly certain, but I am not - would not have taken up this case had he been aware of the circumstances, because I do not think he would irresponsibly want to advocate this kind of case where the advocacy can only have the result of prejudicing people who are properly eligible for the unemployment benefit and who may need it. My Department endeavours to be flexible and humane in the administration of the Act, but when people endeavour to do things which are obviously outside the ambit of the Act and which make them ineligible for the benefit and then find members of the Opposition in this House can take up their cause, it prejudices the position of those who are genuinely entitled to the benefit and whom we want to help. 
Leaving that matter aside, I would like to make a remark or two about the case brought to my notice this morning by the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Griffiths).  I would not do this if it were not the last sitting day of this House. When I resume my seat I will be very happy to show the honourable member the relevant file so that he may peruse it with me. I think that in this case also the decision of my Department was the correct one. I do not want to ventilate in this House more than necessary the private affairs of pensioners or applicants for a pension. I think all members of the House would agree with me that it would be wrong to do this. It is true that in the case to which the honourable member referred there was a divorce subsequent to a separation. When the divorce took place the lady in question became eligible for benefits, and benefits are being paid to her. From a perusal of the paper, which I would like to make available to the honourable member if he would like to see them with me, I am by no means certain that the desertion was without cause. In fact, I think rather the opposite is the case. 
I feel that in this case the decision of my Department was the correct one. I do stress that at the present moment the lady in question is receiving a widow's pension. I know that the honourable member for Shortland is a man of humane attitudes. I think all honourable members in this house regret that by his own decision he is shortly to leave us. I know that his attitude in regard to these matters stands out in advance of the attitudes of some of the other members of his Party who endeavour to use the pensioner issue purely for party political reasons. For example, I cannot help remembering the incident when the honourable member for Shortland had the courage to stand up in this House and say that his Leader had referred to kindness to pensioners as feather bedding. My Depart ment and I do not talk about feather bedding pensioners. We try to give every pensioner what he is entitled to. I know that the honourable member for Shortland, who shortly, I regret, will be leaving us, by his attitude and his remarks in this House, has shown himself to be of a humane disposition. I acknowledge this and I will be very pleased to discuss with him the file in question at a later hour this day. 
 This afternoon I told the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Griffiths)  that I would have a look, with him, at a file concerning a  Mrs Duff.  The arguments he put to me were of such a character that he convinced me and I have changed the decision on this matter. However, I am sorry that I cannot agree that another thing that he started has been as satisfactorily concluded. I refer to what he said in this House on 24th May, which still remains unresolved. Honourable members will recall that on that occasion ne spoke of certain Labor organisations not simply in terms of intrigue and graft but in terms of fraud, blackmail, conspiracy and forgery. These are felonies, but they were his words. He said also that the Federal Executive of the Labor Party must have known of the discrepancies, of the manipulation of the statutory declarations and of the forgery and blackmail. He said: 
As I see it, any prolonged continuation of that silence in itself condemns the Executive members as being persons unfit to hold public office. 
On Tuesday I received a copy of a letter sent to the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  by a  Mr Johnson  who is or who was - I am not certain which -  President  of the Tingira Heights Branch of the Labor Party. He asked me to bring this letter before the House and I propose to do so, because he says: 
I firmly believe that some effort will be made to 'hush' up the irregularities that occurred in this electorate, and that those that broke the law will be allowed to go unpunished. 
He then details a lot of voluminous material which I will not have time to read out. However, he speaks of false statutory declarations and says: 
The same officer of the Court was offered an alleged 'bribe' of $500 by one of the candidates,  Mr P.  Morris, and has signed a Statutory Declaration to this effect. 
He goes on to speak of a lot of other irregularities. They may be crimes or they may be irregularities, but he speaks of a number of them and he attaches a number of documents to his letter. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) In the period affected by the Department's advertising campaign for which statistics are readily available, that is the 3 weeks ended 20th October 1972, some 42,834 claims were received. This compares with about 8,100 in the corresponding 3 weeks of 1971. In the same period 22,017 claims were determined. The staff resources of the Department are fully engaged in dealing with a new claim workload exceeding 5 times that of 12 months ago and resources are not available at present to undertake the work necessary to produce the further statistical dissection requested. 
Marriage Act: Recognised Denominations (Question No. 6483)  Mr Whitlam  asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
When did the Autocephalic Greek Orthodox Church of America and Australia apply for the Governor-General to declare it to be a recognised denomination for the purposes of the Marriage Act (Hansard, 2nd December 1971, page 4106). 
When may it expect the Governor-General (a) to declare it or (b) to refuse to declare it. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Further progress in examining the housing situation of age pensioners has been hampered through lack of available information. Action has already been instituted to remedy this situation as far as possible through the collection of additional data but, of necessity,, some time must elapse before the material becomes available and is analysed. 
Universities: Enrolments, Scholarships, Matriculants and Finances  (Question No. 5789)  Mr Whitlam  asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
What is the number of new enrolments and the total number of enrolments at universities in 1972. 
What is the (a) number and (b) percentage of university students holding Commonwealth University scholarships in 1972. 
How many persons (a) applied for, (b) were offered and (c) accepted scholarships and what was the percentage of applicants who accepted scholarships. 
How many persons passed matriculation level examinations in each State at the end of 1971. 
How many Commonwealth university scholars were enrolled in the first year of their courses at each university in 1972. 
How many Commonwealth university scholars are in (a) full-time and (b) part-time studies in 1972. 
How many, full-lime Commonwealth university scholars are receiving (a) part and (b) full living allowances in 1972. 
How much does the Commonwealth expect to pay in 1972 in respect of Commonwealth university scholarships for (a) fees, (b) living allowances and (c) fares. 
What was the (a) number and (b) percentage of Commonwealth university scholars who failed in 1971 in the (i) first year and (ii) later years of their courses. 
What was the student-staff ratio in each university in 197.1. 
In which universities and faculties or schools have quotas been imposed in 1972. 
What was the (a) number and (b) percentage of students qualified for matriculation in each State who unsuccessfully sought enrolment in universities in 1972 (Hansard, 9th November 1971, page 3206). (1.3) How many medical students are enrolled and how many beds are available for teaching at each university. 
What was the most recent date on which each State Government indicated to the university, or universities in that State that fees would have lo be increased (questions Nos 5490 and 5491). 
What (a) amount and (b) percentage of its income did each university receive from (i) the Commonwealth, (ii) a State, (iii) endowment and benefactions and (iv) fees in the latest year for which information is available. 
What (a) amount and (b) percentage of fees received by each university in that year was paid by the Commonwealth. 
What would be the cost to the Commonwealth of paying fees of the present number of university students whose fees are not already paid by Commonwealth and State departments and instrumentalities (Hansard, 9th December 1971, page 4522). 
What was the (a) number and (b) percentage of (i) male and (ii) female students in final year of secondary education in each State and Territory in 1971. 
What was the (a) number and (b) percentage of new (i) male and (ii) female university students in each State and Territory in 1972. 
As the then Minister told me on 22nd September 1970 (Hansard, page 1494) that enrolment statistics are available in mid-August or early September and scholarship statistics in mid-August will he himself answer this question earlier than he answered the similar question in 1971 (Hansard, 9th December 1971, page 4528 and 27th April 1972, page 2066). 
What improvements have been achieved in the timeliness of reporting and publication of the statistics since the then Minister's reply on 30th October 1970 (Hansard, page 3188). 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. Did he indicate shortly after the appointment of his Ministry that normal security checks would not be applied to all ministerial staffs? Did he subsequently reverse his attitude on this question? Was this done on the suggestion of certain members of these ministerial staffs? Finally, was his initial reluctance to take this obviously sensible course of requiring normal security checks for ministerial staffs based upon a reasonable apprehension of the consequences if normal security procedures were applied to certain of his Ministers? 
I think I should draw the attention of the House to the implication of certain events which occurred at question time today and which require some further elucidation. As the matters involve the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  I have sent him a note telling him that I proposed to raise a matter concerning him and that perhaps it would be reasonable for him to be present. Perhaps he did not receive the note, but it seems that the Prime Minister is not here although I am sure he has been duly advised by note. This matter I propose to mention refers to the Prime Minister's answers - or lack of answers - in regard to security checks for ministerial staff. Tomorrow the full text of his answers will be in Hansard but tonight I am relying on my memory only. However, I feel that the sub ject is urgent enough to require ventilation tonight while it is still fresh in the minds of honourable members. The Prime Minister in answering questions about security checks of ministerial staffs seemed artless enough, but I wonder whether he was being quite frank with the House. 
I have examined the Press reports of the time. The 'Canberra Times' of 18th December stated: 
No check on staff. The Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  has insisted that none of his staff be checked out by the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation, it was learned yesterday. Reliable sources said that the step diverged from usual practice. The sources said it would be up to individual Ministers to decide whether their staff should undergo security, checks. It is understood that the move has caused some concern in departmental circles because access to secret documents would be granted to persons about whom the security service knows little. 
The 'Australian' of 11th January carried the following story: 
The Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  has reversed his stand on security checks of his personal staff. The Australian Security Intelligence Organisation is now running security checks on all of  Mr Whitlands  staff who had not previously been cleared.  Mr Whitlam  had at first refused to allow members of his staff to be cleared by security as he believed that as personal appointments they were to be trusted implicitly. It is understood that  Mr Whitlands  staff volunteered to be cleared by ASIO to prevent any possible trouble that might arise if there were a major security breach. It is known that the members of the staff of the AttorneyGeneral,  Senator Murphy,  also volunteered to undergo the security checks. Any other ministerial staffs not previously cleared are now expected to be checked out.  Mr Whitlam's  original attitude created difficulties within the Commonwealth Public Service and with Australia's allies. 
The 'Daily Telegraph' of the same date carried a similar story and the 'National Times' of 22nd January referred to the subject and said: 
But the question of clearance of Prime Ministerial and Ministerial staff has now been reviewed and the Whitlam staff, along with others, will now go through the security mill. The one proviso still being thrashed out is that if a staff member violently objects to a security clearance he may be exempted. 
It may be that all these newspaper stories are wrong, although I would consider that to be rather improbable. However, I point out to the House that the newspaper stories can in a sense be checked because they say, whether rightly or wrongly, that these events were known to many people. So perhaps in some way it may be possible to check these stories. I ask the newspapers concerned either to stand by their stories or to repudiate them because it is important that the veracity of the newspapers should be undoubted in matters such at this. Personally, I do not doubt these stories, but I believe that the newspapers now have a responsibility to verily them and tell us something more about the way in which these things have happened and the background. The Prime Minister owes it to the House to tell honourable members more about this matter. If these stories are true then the Prime Minister was not being frank at all when, in his artless way, he told the House that he did not know what checks had been done or what other Ministers had done in this regard. This is a matter which is important because it goes right to the roots of the Prime Minister's credit and personal veracity. 
I think the House is entitled to know whether the man who is Prime Minister can be trusted to be truthful in his answers at the table in this House. But in my view it goes a little further than this. Today the Prime Minister said that he did not know which Ministers had had security checks on their staffs. This in itself is an almost incredible statement It was made by the Prime Minister, yet it argues an almost unbelievable degree of irresponsibility in this sensitive and important matter. The man who is responsible to the nation does not know. He says that he has not bothered to make any check. He said that some Ministers may have had their staffs checked by Security. He does not know which they are, from what he said in the House, if my memory serves me correctly. He does not know which they are and he does not know what checks have been made. When sensitive papers are being distributed, is it not important for the Prime Minister to know whose staff can be trusted and whose staff cannot be trusted? Every person who has been a Minister knows that a Minister's papers must be handled by his staff. He does not put everything in his safe himself. He has his staff to do it Which staffs can be trusted and which cannot? 
I do not know whether the extract from the 'National Times' has any validity. But let me remind the House of one sentence which I read out a moment ago. It reads: 
The one proviso still being thrashed out is that if  a  staff member violently objects to  a  security clearance he may be exempted. 
A story is going around which I have not been able to verify - so I will not quote names as that would be unfair - that on the staff of one Minister is a card-carrying Communist. 
If this is so, is this a man who is to be exempted from security clearance because he violently objects? I do not know what the position is in this regard but I think that it is up to the Prime Minister to make a statement in this House tomorrow and to tell us what the position really is. Who gets all these secret documents? We have been told all Ministers are members of the Cabinet, but apparently only certain of them get certain documents. Which of the Ministers are trusted; which are not? From somebody who boasts of open government we are entitled to know the facts. I and this House should require the Prime Minister to answer these questions at the table tomorrow. 
1 ask for leave to make a personal explanation. 
I know that, last night, the speeches in the House were very confused and it may well be that you,  Mr Speaker,  did not hear what was said. Therefore, I draw your attention to page 98 of Hansard, the second column, wherein the Minister for Social Security made a remark to me which was grossly offensive and which I asked to be considered offensive. Under standing order 77, if you had heard that remark undoubtedly you would have intervened because it would have been your duty to do so. I do honestly consider that you did not hear that remark and, therefore, I am not endeavouring in any way to impugn your conduct. However, if you had heard the remark which is recorded on page 98 of Hansard undoubtedly you would have agreed that the words were offensive. I named them as offensive. Standing order 77 provides that the  Speaker  shall intervene. You did not and I believe this is because you did not hear the remark. It is important for this House that wc should be able to rely on an impartial  Speaker,  lt is important for every member and it is important for the House as a whole. This is one of our most important privileges. I therefore ask that you require the Minister for Social Security to withdraw his offensive remark. 
If the Minister for Social Security does not feel impelled to offer an apology then I have nothing further to say. lt throws a very revealing light on what he is and upon his character. 
 I think I can speak with some personal experience on this occasion on this matter because for a long time I occupied a room on the  far  corner of the Senate wing on the upper storey and therefore somewhat more distant from this chamber than the Cabinet room. It does seem to me from personal experience that a reasonably active person would find no difficulty in covering the distance in  2  minutes. However, I suppose some allowance must be made for the decrepit condition of certain members of the new Ministry. There are  2  matters that I would like to bring forward and I would ask the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  to give me his attention for a moment because I think that these are practical points. Firstly, the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  made some remarks with which I felt myself in sympathy particularly in regard to what is known as the subsequent question, the question which arises after the application of the gag, and we must expect that the new Government will be applying the gag somewhat more frequently than the last one did. I suggest to the Leader of the House that when the subsequent question is called, namely after the gag, that the ringing of the bells might perhaps be reduced to one minute or even  30  seconds because there is no reason really why extra time should be allowed for that. If members are not here for the gag they do not want to vote on the division. If they are sitting in the House for the gag division there is no need to give extra time. Perhaps the Leader of the House will consider amending his motion in line with the very constructive suggestion made by the honourable member for Prospect and where the subsequent question is called, that is, the question which follows the application of the gag, the ringing of the bells should be reduced to not more than one minute. 
The second point 1 want to make is one which followed on the suggestion made by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch).  I think he was right when he was speaking of the effects on listeners at times of parliamentary broadcasts who, when listening to divisions, had nothing to hear except perhaps the mumble. It is important if the proceedings of this House are to find their echoes in the electorate - as they should - that this time of waiting should not be lengthened from 2 minutes to 3 minutes. If this were done it would be a retrograde step which would cause many people to turn off the parliamentary broadcast. This matter is quite an important one for the conduct of this House. I would suggest that during this time appropriate music might be p ayed. If the motion is moved by the Opposition the appropriate music could be 'Waltzing Matilda' or some Australian tune. If the motion is moved by the Government, obviously the appropriate tune would be The Red Flag' or something of that character. I think that we should consider very carefully the use of some appropriate tunes while the division bells are being rung. 
I think the House should agree that the Government that went out left the economy in a very good state and it left great reserves - and we should be glad of this - which will enable a forward social service policy to be conducted. If we had remained in office we would have done this: We would have pushed on with a forward social service policy. I would remind the House that during the last three or four years our social service policy has been one of progress. We did leave resources. We showed real restraint. As against the easy accusations which were made in this House a few moments ago, we did not at election time put forward policies for election purposes. Just the opposite. We have left for the incoming government a margin, a momentum, which I hope it will continue. 
In the social service field, as in other fields, the Government is the inheritor of something that the Australian people have created during our time in office. I hope that the Government will be able to continue the same progress that we showed. After all, it is not from the electors' point of view so important which government is in power or which gov ernment is not in power. From the electors' point of view it is important what is done for Australia and how fast and how far our progress goes. I would suggest that the House would appreciate this. I am sure that honourable members on this side of the House will appreciate that we will look on all of these things as Australians and when something is done which is good, even if this be done by a government of another colour, we will applaud and support it. 
The main purpose of this Bill is to raise the main rate of pension by $1.50 per week. The Government has a mandate for this and should be therefore supported. It is regrettable, of course, that there is a little tack of clarity in the Government's formulation of policy. Some people would say that the pledge of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  was to give not $1.50 now but $3 by autumn of this year. I do not press this point. This is not the only situation in which the Labor Government made promises which were perhaps a little far-reaching and which it may not be able to honour in their entirety. As I said, I do not press this point. I say only that, there was a little lack of clarity in the formulation of the promise and that some people, when they read the text of the Prime Minister's policy speech, might think that there should have been given $1.50 immediately and another $1 .50 this autumn, which would come within the 'thereafter' phrase in the Prime Minister's policy speech. However, be that as it may, I think that we should all support the present rise. However, I wonder if it can be squared with the Government's announced objective. 
I listened with some care to what the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  said about the situation, that if the $1.50 did not turn out to be enough the Government would consider increasing the . amount. I acknowledge that the Minister said this. But let us just look at the figures. If the average weekly earnings are to rise by $12 a year-and that seems to be about par for the course at the moment - an increase in pensions of S3 a year, which is twice the proposed increase of $1.50 to be paid each spring and autumn, will just about hold the present relative position and the Government will never under these circumstances be able to catch up . to . 25 per cent of average weekly earnings simply by giving an increment of $1.50 every 6 months. This may be so, and all of us fear that the inflation under the Labor, administration will be somewhat fierce and will be greater in the wage category than the $12 per week rise in average weekly earnings that I have suggested. It seems to me that under present conditions we are not likely to catch up. I do not want to be taken as attributing the inflation which I am afraid will occur to extravagant social service expenditure. I do not hold that view. It seems to me that the elements of inflation are somewhat deeper and more massive, lying as they do in industrial indiscipline rising to industrial sabotage and to extravagant wage claims. Whereas I support the proposal that we should tie the rate of pension to some external index, it seems to me that average weekly earnings are not the happiest of indices to tie it to because, first, it is volatile and it fluctuates. The difference between the March and December quarters, for example, is obviously fairly well known but, more importantly, it is itself subjective and is itself indicative only of a section of the community. I would rather have tied the rate of pension to national income per capita. The results would not have been vastly different over the past couple of years but it seems to me that this is a fairer and more practical criterion to invoke. 
I now come to a part of the Bill which causes me, as it caused other speakers on this side of the House, a certain amount of apprehension, and that is what is being done in regard to unemployment benefits. 1 admit that it is desirable to give to those who are unemployed through no fault of their own relief on a scale greater than the accepted norm. I agree about that. But what is the best way of doing this without at the same time involving yourself in quite important difficulties? It is all very well for honourable members opposite to brush these difficulties away but in the United Kingdom there has grown up a class of what you would almost call 'professional unemployed'. Those who follow the comic strips in the newspapers will remember Andy Capp. Andy Capp is not altogether a figment of the imagination. In the midlands of the United Kingdom there is a class of professional unemployed. We do not want this in Australia. I will assert rather than admit that our past system was not sufficient but I am not in any way convinced that the acrosstheboard approach of the Government at the present time to this matter is any better. You do, it is true, get rid of one evil but it may be that you invoke a worse one. This can compound if you have changes in administration. 
There are 2 changes which the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  has made clear. Firstly, he has relaxed certain of the safeguards in the Department of Social Security and has changed the administration in that regard. Secondly, he has gone away from the old Chifley-Evatt-McKenna concept and is using unemployment relief in order to help finance rolling strikes. Rolling strikes are one of the most important forms of industrial sabotage which I assert is a key component in the inflationary spiral. 
But there is something else which has been done. I think that the success of what was in the past my Department has been due very largely to the influence of a man who was the Director-General and I hope that the House will go with me in regretting the circumstances, whether they be ill-health or whatever they may have been, that have caused the retirement of  Mr L.  B. Hamilton, O.B.E., as Director-General of Social Services. He is a great loss to the administration of that Department and I think, on a wider scale, to other departments also. 
Sitting suspended from 6.14 to 8 p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting I had mentioned that there were many good features in the proposals for increasing the rate of unemployment benefit. Everybody appreciates that fact. The question is: Does the harm that is done sometimes outweigh the good features? It is all very well to say that the work test can be applied. All of us who have had some practical experience in this field know that there are ways and means of avoiding the effectiveness of the work test. As good as this proposal is in so many respects, it has those unfortunate features. It has an especially unfortunate impact on particular groups. Let me instance two of them. The first are the Aborigines in the northern part of Australia. This is a matter of which I have some practical knowledge. I assure the House that the introduction of this Bill spells ruin for Aboriginal advancement in the north of Australia. The Aboriginal people there will be doomed to a life of scrounging, hanging on and penury. The hopes we may have had for their advancement vanish with this Bill. 
The second group, which is perhaps of even greater importance because so many people are involved, are the children - people under the age of 21. This Bill grants to them the full unemployment benefit rate. That is a most retrograde step which will have social consequences of quite immense impact. It means that those who leave school will have no incentive to find jobs immediately because, if they can manipulate the work test as so many of them can, they will live in small communities or at home. It is important that these habits of idleness be not inculcated in people who leave school. Every parent with children in this age group will agree with me. These children will be able to bring into the home large incomes through unemployment benefit because there is no expense for a child who is being maintained at home, as most children of 16 and 17 are. This $21.50 a week is quite a big sum: Let the House have no illusions about that. 
In this Bill we are putting our imprimatur to an engine of social change of quite massive consequences, lt may be that these consequences will not appear immediately. They will not, but the deterioration which is inherent in this scheme over the long term - surely in a matter like this the House should have some regard for long term consequences - is quite massive indeed. I suggest to honourable members that they should think very carefully about the long term effects of the proposal to pay full rates of unemployment benefit - I am not speaking about sickness benefits - to people under the full adult age. I know that this is the popular thing to do and it is the type of thing which will gain the immediate plaudits of the unthinking, but it is a bad thing to do because its long term consequences can be quite disastrous. The Government has no mandate for this kind of social change. The Governor-General's Speech refers to the Government's proposals being designed to achieve basic changes in the administration and structure of Australian society. I do not think the people who voted the Government into power really understand that such massive changes in this and other fields were contemplated. 
I will not refer to the figures quoted by the Minister except to say that some of them are wrong. The main error was in the omission from the comparison table of supplementary assistance, which is included in Professor Henderson's basic poverty line, which makes an allowance for rent. The figures are therefore misleading to the extent of about $4 a week. No doubt when the Minister has greater experience he will not repeat this kind of egregious error. I do not want to trip the 
Minister so I will let the matter pass for the time being. 
Professor Henderson, who has been inquiring into poverty, has found a number of people living below what he calls the poverty line, but in general they are not the people dealt with by this Bill. We should be thinking more in terms of the low income earner. The beneficiary under this Bill may be better off than many normal low income families. 1 hope that the Government has some plan for helping in this field, but this was not mentioned in the Governor-General's Speech. It is a field which was set as one of the targets of the outgoing Government which undoubtedly it would have dealt with effectively if it had been returned to power for these 3 years. The omission of this matter -seems to me to be evidence of a lack of some sense of proportion in dealing with social service and social security matters. There are many good things in this Bill and many that I perhaps more than any member of the Opposition would support, but there are some defects and some blemishes and I have tried to draw them to the attention of the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Collard)  adjourned. 
I am glad that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  is in the House because I intend to say some things in regard to him which I hope he will do me the courtesy of listening to because I think they are relevant. I refer to certain matters which are most important, and in particular to something which I think is of prime importance, although not terribly spectacular and has not received much attention. I refer to the gradual drift of Australia towards the Left since this Government has been in power. This has happened both by action and inaction; both by the things the Government has initiated and by its failure to rebuke its own Ministers for statements which have been clearly prejudicial to the safety and interests of Australia. This Government is gradually taking Australia into the communist orbit. It has no mandate for that. This was not put forward during the election campaign and yet it is happening, not quickly, not dramatically, but with a considerable and massive momentum. This is not something which is academic. It is not something which can be brushed aside because the whole safety and existence of Australia is at stake. In this and other parts of the world there is no automatic safety for those peoples who conduct their foreign policy in an incompetent way. 
This drift to the Left has taken place under both the 2-man Government which briefly held office and the Government which succeeded it. What is its explanation? The House would agree with me that neither the Prime Minister nor the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Barnard)  is a communist or even radically to the Left. Yet under their guidance this process is going on. What is the explanation? I think the explanation derives from 2 things - firstly, from the nature of the Australian Labor Party machine and its control over the Government and, secondly, from weakness of character in the 2 gentlemen whom I have mentioned. 
Let me speak of the ALP machine first and I take my material from the official documents of the Party. These speak of the powers and duties of the Federal Conference and Federal Executive. The Australian Labor Party 'Platform, Constitution and Rules' states: 
Decisions of the Federal Executive shall be binding upon all sections and members of the ALP subject only to appeal to Federal Conference. The Federal Executive shall: 
Be the administrative authority carrying out the decisions of Federal Conference, and in the interpretation of any Conference decision, the Federal Platform and the Constitution and Rules of the Party, and the direction of Federal Members. 
This is set out in black and white. Later on in that same document there is a section dealing with the Federal Parliamentary Labor Party which says: 
The power of direction, advice and/or guidance is reserved for the Federal Conference and between conferences, the Federal Executive. 
Again the Party's constitution lays down that the Federal Parliamentary Labor Party can have authority to act only within the framework of the directions which it gets. 
This was not perhaps of great consequence when the Labor Party was in Opposition be cause the acts of the Opposition do not determine Australian policy. It is of great consequence, however, when the Labor Party is in government because it means that the Government of Australia - this is the incredible fact but it is true - is subject to outside direction. 
The Prime Minister acknowledged this in the House only a few days ago, on 28th February, when the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  asked: 
Is he bound in making his policy decisions by all of the platform, constitution and rules of the Labor Party as approved at the Launceston Conference in 1971. 
That referred to the document from which I have read. The Prime Minister answered quite simply in one word, 'yes'. He considers himself bound. That means that the Government of Australia is not in the hands of the Federal Cabinet or this Parliament. While the Federal Cabinet and the Party opposite which has the majority in this House accepts outside direction the Government of Australia is in the hands of the Australian Labour Party Conference and, between conferences, the Federal Executive. I want to refer to what happened in 1966  -  and perhaps the Prime Minister will recall these events - because it throws a fairly relevant light upon the course of policy. At that stage the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, as he then was, did come into conflict with the Federal Executive and briefly he defied it. But he came to heel and I will quote from an official document, the report of the Special Commonwealth Conference which was printed under the authority of the Labor Party.  Mr Whitlam  had been summoned before that Federal Conference. At page 36 of that report the following appears: 
The Federal Secretary read to Conference the following letter he had been handed from  Mr Whitlam: 
Dear Cyril, 
Since the Federal Executive convened the Special Federal Conference, I sent a letter to the South Australian Branch at its request as follows: "Many members of the Party and its affiliated unions have been angered at the public attack I made on some decisions and members of the Federal Executive." ' 

 - Mr Whitlam. It continued: 
I have already given an unreserved apology in writing to the Executive for the personal reference I made. 
I am glad a Special Federal Conference has been called. I now undertake to work within the framework of the party and to accept the decisions of its properly constituted authorities. 
This letter represents my attitude, 
The Prime Minister confirmed on 28th February, only a few days ago, in this House that his attitude was still the same. The following motion was moved at the Conference: 
That the letter be received, and, in view of the undertaking given by  Mr Whitlam-  in the letter dated 26th March that he will now work within the framework of the Party and accept the decisions of its properly constituted authorities, the Conference reprimanded  Mr Whitlam  for his admitted breach of the rules as contained in the findings of the Federal Executive at its meeting held on 2nd March 1966 and following days. 
The report continues: 
Brown asked  Mr Whitlam: 
Does your letter to (his Conference amount to a full and unreserved acceptance of the authority and decisions of the Federal Conference and the Federal Executive, and do you admit that you were completely in error in bringing into question, in a manner not provided for in the rules, the decisions of these Federal authorities? 

 Mr Whitlam replied: 'I have nothing to add.' 
This is confirmation of the attitude which has been adopted throughout by the Prime Minister. He accepts unreservedly the authority of the other bodies and he will carry out, he says, their instructions. They are the government of Australia, not this Parliament and not the Cabinet. While they can find supporters on the other side of this chamber in sufficient numbers they do what they want. They command. They issue the orders and the policy for Australia, the veering to the Left, is what they command. I think it is clear that the Prime Minister will not stand up under pressure. He has a reputation for not standing up under pressure from the Left. Does he think of  Mr Harradine,  his friend, and how he abandoned and betrayed him? Does he perhaps have the grace to blush a little when he considers this matter? Perhaps he will brazen it out. And what about the Victorian affair when his leadership was under challenge and he tried to get the moderates and the Right wing to support him and then abandoned and betrayed them. It is a dangerous thing to be a friend of the Prime Minister. I would like to read a newspaper report of something which  Mr Courtnay,  the late honourable member for Darebin, who lost his pre-selection, had to say. The article stated: 

 Mr Frank Courtnay, the retiring MHR, today produced letters to support his attack on unionists and Labor Party members. 

 Mr Courtnay claims he lost preselection because he refused to stab  Mr Gough  Whitlam in the back. 

 Mr Courtnay claims he was directed by the Darebin campaign council committee to vote for  Dr Jim  Cairns against  Mr Whitlam  when the Labor leadership was at stake in April last year. 
He said the resolution came from a meeting that was illegal under Party rules. 
He alleges, and J think there is some substance in his allegation, that he lost his preselection because he supported the present Prime Minister against the present Minister for Overseas Trade and Minister for Secondary Industry  (Dr J. F. Cairns).  It is a dangerous thing to be the friend of the Prime Minister, because when the pressure comes on from the Left hie gives way to the Left. 
Looking at the pledges he gave to the metal unions on only 2nd June last - given to Communists and to left wingers - I see them being translated into legislation or foreshadowed in the Governor-General's Speech. The Conference of the Party - this almighty government of Australia - will assemble, I believe, in Surfers Paradise in July or August of this year. It was thought that the moderates - the right wing - might have the balance of that Conference. But perhaps the House has not paid sufficient regard to what happened in Tasmania 2 or 3 days ago when the socialist Left exerted its power and the Tasmanian delegates to that Conference are now split 3 - 3, right and left. Because of this it is likely that the Tasmanian delegation will be either neutralised or will throw its lot in with the Left, and this may be sufficient to give to the left wing control of that Conference and control therefore of the Prime Minister and control of the Government of this country. 
What I am saying sounds almost incredible. Yet, these things are true. These are facts; they are indisputable. They arc here in the text if only people would read them, if only people would understand what they did on 2nd December and realise whom they put into power. People thought they were voting perhaps for the members that they were electing. But actually they were voting to give power to a Labor Conference and to a Labor Executive. Again I say that what has been happening recently in Tasmania may well throw the balance of power in that Conference on the side of the Left. 
The House knows well enough that in Victoria the so-called purge of the Left in the Australian Labor Party machine was a pure sham. Hartley is back; Crawford is there; and the Left is still in control- the corrupt Left which controls the Australian Labor Party machine in Victoria. This has happened, yet people will not look at the signs, and they will not see behind this the reason why, slowly, Australia is being taken to the left and our foreign policy is taking us into the communist orbit to the personal peril of all Australians. You cannot rely on a communist friend; why, his friends cannot even rely on the Prime Minister. 
As I have said, there are 2 people concerned. I have already mentioned the Prime Minister. The other person, of course, is the Deputy Prime Minister. I think I should mention that in 1967 the Deputy Prime Minister went to South East Asia and came back with the true story, which was printed in a paper under his own name, that North Vietnam was responsible for massive aggression against South Vietnam. What he said has been published in his name. But once the pressure came on - and, of course, one does not expect a great deal of strength of character from the Deputy Prime Minister - he retreated. There is nobody more vehement now in denouncing those whom he knows are due for support. 
What will happen next? We cannot tell. The Prime Minister has forecast that the Labor Conference will not put any great demands on him or call for any great changes. He may well be right, because even though the Left may be in control it may not think it expedient at this time to exert that control. It is very useful to the Left to have a weak front man, because the Australian people would never vote for the extreme Left. They voted for a weak front man, not realising what they were doing. Because of this it may well be that the Left will not at present exert its full strength. Maybe it will be content with the continuation of the present program, the present slow drift to the left, the present slow but quite significant involvement of Australia in the communist orbit. We are abandoning our friends; we are insulting our friends. The new friends we think we may get cannot be trusted. The safety and the survival of Australia can be prejudiced.  Mr Prime  Minister, I say that you have no mandate for what you and your Government are doing. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! Before calling the honourable member for Cook I remind the House that this is the honourable member's maiden speech and I expect the usual courtesies to be extended to him. 
I would like to speak to the motion. 
That will be very suitable. I thank the Minister. I move: 
That the debate be now adjourned. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Last week I received a most extraordinary letter from the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron).  I intend to read that letter and my reply. The letter is dated 6th March and is signed 'Clyde R. Cameron'. It reads: 
Dear  Mr Wentworth, 
I have received advice from a source which 1 am at present unable to disclose to you, that you have been a member of the Federated Clerks Union. It is  suggested that your motivation for joining the FCU was to obtain an extra$60 annually which was available only to members of registered organisations. 
It appears also to be true that you were admitted to the union on the recommendation of a Communist organiser at a time when the union was in fact under Communist control. 
I am sure that the Parliament would like to hear about your union activities, and I would appreciate your comment on the accuracy of the information I have obtained. As you would know, I would not wish to do you an injustice by falsely asserting your membership of a Communist controlled union merely to qualify for a miserable $60 a year. 
Yours sincerely, 
Clyde  R.  Cameron 
This is a serious matter. I replied in the following terms: 
My dear Minister, 
It was good of you to have written to me in the terms, of your letter of the 6th March, and I appreciate your concern. 
I did work briefly as a clerk on a defence project and joined the Clerks Union as a routine matter. I would have thought that this would have commended itself to you. 
I have been told that, before you became a Minister, you possessed a considerable ring of informers in the Unions, particularly in relation to individual unionists against whom you had a personal grudge, and some parts of your letter seem to confirm this. May I suggest to you that it would not be consonant with your present Ministerial position to maintain for your own purposes such a ring of private informers against individual unionists. 
You will, of course, share my pleasure that the Clerks Unions is no longer under Communist control. It is my understanding that Communist control in this Union was maintained very largely because of corrupt ballot practices, and perhaps you can give me some fuller information on this point, which may be similar to points you have raised in relation to the AWU. The relevant events in the Clerks Union are said to have occurred at a time when the Clerks Union machine was headed by  Mr Jack  Hughes.I think my memory is correct that the  Hon.  Les Johnson, who is at present Minister for Housing, was at that time an employee of the Clerks Union and very closely associated with its affairs, but I must make it clear that I have no information which would link him with any corrupt ballot practices. 
Your letter raises one serious question of principle. Where a union has political affiliations (and particularly when it is under Communist control) should those who disapprove of these affiliations be under any compulsion or financial inducement to join it? Should we perhaps consider establishing the principle that where a union does have such political affiliations its existence should be no bar to the registration of another union to cover the same trade and calling? This would preserve the principle of freedom of association, which I presume you still support. 1 trust that you will not object to my quoting this correspondence in the House. 
I will not speak of the major principle referred to in the second last paragraph because I hope at some later time to have an opportunity to speak on it at length. In regard to the Federated Clerks Union of Australia the  Mr Jack  Hughes was, I think, in the Labor movement at the same time. He subsequently left it and he called himself the State Labor Party. This was at a time when the communists and the Australian Labor Party were co-operating very closely in union affairs. I wish I was sure this does not occur now. Perhaps the Minister for Housing  (Mr Les Johnson)  can refresh my mind as to these events. I must confess that I am not terribly familiar with them. Who was it who was called 'Ape of Jacky'? I forget. In regard to the more serious matter, the Minister for Labour has for a long time had the reputation in the trade union movement of being something of a hatchet man. He has, it is said, had this ring of informers and pimps, sources which he will not disclose, who have been giving him information about individual unionists whom he dislikes. It is a very serious matter when trade union officials and people in this House who have some influence in trade unions maintain this kind of individual terror against trade unionists. 
I am not terrified but it may be that other people who are not so fortunately placed as I am as a member of this House would be terrified of this kind of intimidation and the way in which the trade union leader is now setting himself up as the enemy and dictator of the trade unionists. There has to be something done against this kind of blackmail informing against individuals. It is a very serious thing when the Minister who is now in charge of trade union affairs in this House - the Minister for Labour - still associates himself with the ring of informers which I am told he has for long maintained in the Australian Workers Union and, in the case of other trade unionists, individual little men who have incurred his displeasure. Again, as I say, I am not terrified, but I, as a member of this House, am somewhat fortunately placed. Other little, smaller men, people for whom we should have consideration - we should have consideration for the little men in the community - deserve our help and our support. They should have some kind of protection against the dictatorial trade union secretary blackmailer, the bully, the man who maintains the ring of informers and pimps. 
I know that there is dirt in trade union politics. The Minister in his previous  capacity had often drawn attention to it. I think some of the things he said about dirt in his own union, the AWU, well, they would be very vehement comments and I do not intend to repeat them in this House, but they are things which the Minister himself has said. He himself stands as witness to the corruption and dirt in trade union politics. I regard the Minister as being a political schizo in many respects. Very often his is a both benign and fatherly approach; his hair is almost as white as mine and he has that nice, kindly air. I would not like to think that this is always a calculated insincerity on bis part; I would like to take a kinder view of his character - that he is a political schizo and a kind of Jekyll and Hyde, that sometimes he is genuinely benign and sometimes he is not. 
I should like to take up from where the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross)  left off. I appreciate what he said in his last few sentences. I believe them to be true. I can say absolutely for myself, and I think I can speak for all members of the Opposition in this, that we shall support all those measures which are directed towards the advancement of the Aboriginal people and their real interests. For myself I say this without qualification. Our aim must not be ,to further the interests of those people who themselves are trying to help Aborigines or to further political interests. It must be to further the interests of the Aborigines themselves. 
I support this measure. 1 can assure the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Bryant)  that any measure which he brings in, which is directed towards the advancement of the. Aboriginal people and which is conceived towards that end will have my personal support. I think we can say, as has been said very generously by the honourable member for Brisbane, that the present Opposition when it was the Government started this program. Perhaps we did not go fast enough, but let it be remembered that the machinery of administration cannot be built up overnight. From year to year we increased very significantly, I think perhaps more than any other item in the Budget, the amount that was spent on Aboriginal advancement. Perhaps it was not "enough, but here again 1 say that administrative difficulties necessarily circumscribed what we could do. 
I do not believe that everything that could be done or should be done for Aborigines is material. I think that there are things beyond the material things but I agree and I assert that without the material things we cannot get advancement. So, although I do not believe that objectives can be achieved simply by allocating a few more million dollars, nevertheless I also agree with the Government that the allocation of extra sums will give, the substrata on which the other kind of non-material advancement can be built. 
There are terrible difficulties in this whole program, and 1 think that one of the things which probably the Government appreciates but which may not be appreciated outside this House is that all Aborigines are not the same. Indeed, before the white man came, there, was diversity among Aboriginal tribes of quite a considerable character, but today there are 2 poles and between them a spectrum. There are those who are fully assimilated to our way of life; there are those who are still living their traditional and ceremonial life; and between these 2 poles there is a large number of variations. I do not believe that what is proper at one end of the spectrum is necessarily the right thing at the other end of the spectrum. I believe that we have to be tempering our program to different circumstances, and 1 am sure that the Minister appreciates this. I am not so certain that it is always appreciated outside the House. There is, and it is quite natural, a feeling among people in the electorates that Aborigines are like the people they see in their own town or their own city. Of course more than half the Aborigines are like that, but most of the people who cast their votes for members of this House have scarcely ever seen the Aborigines at the other end of the spectrum - the people who are still living in tribal or near tribal conditions. None lives in fully tribal conditions still, but some still live in conditions verging towards tribal and with tribal authority. 
I suppose that we can make a rough distinction between the full bloods and the part bloods. I think there are something of the order of 50,000 full bloods in Australia. They are nearly all in the Northern Territory, in north and western Queensland, in the north of Western Australia and in Central Australia, including the northern part of South Australia, but not all these full bloods are living with any traditional ties. I do not know how many would be considered as still having those traditional ties. I might venture a guess and say 25,000 or 30,000. Of the indigenous Aborigines - I do not mean visitors - there are in Victoria probably no full bloods. I think there are 4 or 5 who claim to be full bloods, but there is some doubt about that. In New South Wales I doubt that there are more than 200 full bloods. The people of New South Wales and Victoria, who comprise the majority of the electors of members to this House, do not know really very much about the other end of the spectrum. Perhaps in our programs -I speak of the pressures from outside which I know were brought to bear in the last Government and which I am sure will be brought to bear in this one - too much emphasis has been placed on assimilation and perhaps not enough on helping those who are still in their tribal way of life and would like to maintain their cultural heritage. 
I agree entirely with the objectives of this Bill. Housing, employment and health - all these things are important and they should be supported. By themselves, they are probably what is needed in the main for those Aborigines who are nearly assimilated, but they are certainly not enough for those who still maintain the traditional way of life. I am glad that the Minister in his second reading speech put emphasis on consultation. Looking back on Australian history in the last 150 years, but particularly in the last 20 or 30 years, I think our main failure has been that we have not consulted, and much more important than this we have not used, the forms of Aboriginal authority to facilitate the transition into the new way of life which they and all other Australians must face. I know the north of Australia in this regard, and I have seen the Government machinery at work. It has been operated by men who were dedicated and whom you would not want to criticise, but throughout I think there has been too much paternalism and too much reluctance to give to the Aboriginal control over his own destiny. There has been a rubbishing ofall the concepts around which Aboriginal life was built. I am not trying to say that this has anything to do with the Aborigines in Redfern or the Aborigines in Footscray or somewhere like that; it has not. I have no time for those who want to resurrect some kind of phoney traditionalism. But it has a great deal to do with the Aborigines in the north of Australia and the centre of Australia. 
These people still have some of their old life and some of their old traditions. If we break this down, as over 150 years we have broken it down over all of Australia, we will end up there with the kind of depressed end product that we know throughout Australia today. I think perhaps this is our fault. It is not that the Aboriginal is a worse person than we are but that he has a different background, and we have destroyed him by rubbishing his background. We have come in and said: 'Look, all the things by which you lived, all the things you thought valuable, all your beliefs, your ceremonies, your way of life and your skills are nonsense'. This is what we said and because we said it we broke down this coherent structure of Aboriginal life and we got the kind of depressed, hopeless end product which we now find, and which we have to resurrect as best we can, in our cities and in our country towns. 
Surely for the few tens of thousands of full bloods who still hold to their traditional way of life there is a better path. Can we not possibly use their authority, use their ways of life, not for something static - no, that cannot be done - but as a means and mechanism to help the transfer over not one generation, perhaps more than one generation, into the way of life of Australians? Harm can be done to these people by doing too much and too quickly. Here there is a conflict - a conflict among Aboriginals themselves - and it is a difficult problem because there is some confusion in their own minds. They will say: Look, we want the advantages of your ways of life, we want medical services,, cars, aeroplanes, roads and one thing and another'. At the same time they say: 'We want to live by ourselves. What you are trying to do to us is cultural . genocide*. These two things they are saying are in a way incompatible and this is something which makes very difficult the path of any Minister who is really applying himself to the advantage of the Aboriginal people. I speak now of the people in the north and the centre of Australia. 
I do not think anybody can underestimate the difficulties, the confusions and the contradictions which must in the nature of things occur in this program, but I think that this simple program is the right program for those Aboriginals who are in the south or nearer to our way of life. For those people I have no reservations. Go forward; there is nothing for that but assimilation. For those in the north perhaps there is a better way. 
I turn now to something which is not so pleasant. As a result of what I have observed in the north, particularly in the Northern Territory, I do not think that our present programs are working out successfully. I am speaking perhaps of programs of the past governments - 'government's' in the plural - not just the program of the last 20 years of the Liberal-Country Party Government but programs before then. The traditional Abor iginals of the Northern Territory are being broken down now into an end product situation. Many honourable members saw the television program about Katherine a couple of nights ago concerning what was called the white backlash. Many of the things which were said against the Aboriginals were, in point of fact, true but the general picture behind them was not true. Some of the individual things were true. These complaints were factual. These Aboriginals in Katherine, Tennant Creek and so many other towns are, in fact, facing ruin and disintegration in the way that was shown on that television program. We are failing. Do not let us blame this Government or the past Government. Blame if we will - no, do not blame them too much - the Australian people because our failure is parallel with the failure of other people in other parts of the world who have met this same problem. We are not failing worse than other people have failed in the past, but we are failing. 
I suggest that perhaps we use the experiences of the past in Australia and in other parts of the world to save these remnant people in the north and prevent them going through the hell that their brothers in the south went through a hundred years ago. I see happening in the Northern Territory now the same things as happened, as I know, not from my personal experience of course, but from the history books, in the south of Australia a hundred years ago. They are not happening through lack of goodwill. They are happening, I think, through lack of understanding. This is the plea that I would make: When we are thinking of the north of Australia we are not niggardly as to material things but we do not deceive ourselves into thinking that we can just salve our consciences and solve the problem by throwing in a lot of material things and spending a lot of money. Sure, spend the money. Yes, do not stint that where it is called for, but do not let us deceive ourselves into thinking that merely by spending money that is enough. 
Honourable members remember Aladdin's magic lamp , 'New lamps for old*. The new lamps looked so good; they were so attractive. The only thing they lacked was the magic of the old lamp. We are offering, in a way, Aboriginals in the Northern Territory, new lamps. They look good but they lack the magic of the old lamps which, held in cohesion, ensured the survival of these people through many thousands of years. They are being broken down now. Those things which were said on that television program to a great extent were true. Why were they true? It was not because the Aboriginals are worse people than we are but because they are differently circumstanced and perhaps we have not been, with all our goodwill, sufficiently skilled in knowing how to help them. 
I am glad to have an opportunity to commend to the House the statement by the Minister for Education  ,'Mr Beazley).  I support it very warmly and I support also the terms in which the Minister spoke to us a few moments ago. It is true that this program follows on an initiative taken by the past Government. But I think that we should acknowledge gratefully the energy that the Minister has shown in regard to the program and the practical results which will flow from that energy. I place on record how much 1 support what is being done. 
I think that in the pre-school level and infants school level, and even up to the primary level, there is a great case to be made out for the use in Aboriginal schools in the Northern Territory, particularly in Central Australia, and in Western Australia of the native language where that is current and in use by the Aborigines who live there. There are many reasons for this. I agree that there must be an association in the mind of a young child with the family situation and the transition which all children have to undertake from a purely family situation to one of the wider community. I agree that as a matter of practical education a good deal of the confusion which is felt by Aboriginal students at later ages may well be due to the fact that we have not made sufficient use of Aboriginal languages in training in schools, particularly in the primary and sub-primary schools. 
I should like to make one or two additional points. The first follows from conversations I had some time ago with the international head of the Summer Institute of Linguistics -  Dr Townsend  - in which he made 2 points, one of which I am glad to see was incorporated in the Minister's speech, namely, that literacy should be established in the Aboriginal language. This is essential, and the Minister very rightly drew attention to some of the difficulties inherent in implementing this concept. But the Minister is going to implement it nevertheless. 1 think one point has to be faced. Experience indicates that the incorporation of English in the education of an individual who speaks another language should be carried out by somebody who is fluent in both languages. This is a great practical difficulty to which I will return in a moment. If a proper transition is to be carried out the teacher must be fluent in both languages. I agree that eventually there must be this transition to English because English gives opportunity for education and for advancement in the various transactions of life. The transition must be a matter of choice by the Aborigines themselves. 
In my experience I have found that most Aborigines, although they do not want to abandon their own language, are anxious to become literate and fluent in English. We have made a great mistake over many years in Papua New Guinea in allowing a kind of pidgin to become established to such an extent that it is now probably ineradicable. I hope that that mistake will not be repeated in Australia, although I regret to say that there are some indications that it is being repeated in this country. We should help Aborigines to become fluent in normal English, but I do not believe that this means imposing upon them an English curriculum in primary and preprimary schools. The decision which is incorporated in the Minister's statement is, therefore a wise and a good one. 
I turn now to the practical difficulties inherent in the implementation of this policy. They are many. Languages are so diverse and different. Many of us are inclined to dismiss the Aboriginal language as something which is very simple. People say that the Aboriginal language is made up of only a few words and that it has no structure. Nothing could be further from the truth. Investigation has revealed that Aboriginal vocabularies are far more extensive than was once thought and that Aboriginal syntax - sentence construction and so on - is much much more complicated than English and, indeed, I would say is far more complicated than even Greek or Latin. For that reason the learning of Aboriginal languages is by no means an easy thing. 
As is pointed out in the paper, there are mixed situations in which two, three or more languages are current in a given group. This is not always so foreign to Aboriginal thinking as might be first believed, because very often the husband and wife in an Aboriginal family speak different languages. This situation does not always happen, of course, but it is by no means uncommon. 
Yes. Therefore, a mixed language situation is not foreign to the Aboriginal approach. But I agree that the existence of a mixed language situation does add to our difficulties. I do not think that one could hope to get Europeans in general to become fluent in Aboriginal languages. There are some exceptions to this. For example, a dedicated lady in the north east of Arnhem Land is very much at home in the Aboriginal languages. I do not think that we can hope to get Europeans as a whole to speak Aboriginal languages because firstly the languages themselves are so difficult to learn and secondly the languages are very much localised, so that skills learnt at great cost and effort in one part of Australia are useless in another part of Australia. I might qualify my statement by pointing out that languages in the western desert have fairly widespread use but languages used in the north of Australia, particularly in Arnhem Land, Cape York and Western Australia, are very local and very different. So I do not think that we can hope to get Europeans to become fluent in Aboriginal languages and to carry out the function of the transition which requires someone who is fluent in both the English and Aboriginal languages. 
I would think that the solution must lie in the further training of Aboriginal teachers. I do not go with the idea that a teacher, in order to teach in a primary or infants school, has to undergo such a tremendous amount of training. Very often the mother or a woman in the natural situation is absolutely capable of doing this. I think it is much better to sacrifice a little academic proficiency in order to get the language proficiency. I hope that Kormilda and the other centres with which the Minister is so familar would turn their attention more to turning out, quickly, Aboriginal teachers, particularly Aboriginal woman teachers, who could be used in the pre-school, infant and sub-primary grades. I am not suggesting for one moment that we should not endeavour to get Aborigines who are academically capable of taking the higher grades; I am not trying to rule that out for a moment. But it does seem to me that the first priority now is to get Aborigines who are capable in their own language - the language is crucial - of taking the lower grades in the schools. 
I know that the Institute of Aboriginal Studies has done a lot of work on Aboriginal languages. The Institute has reduced languages to the printed word. It has found out the syntax of the language, analysed words and compiled vocabularies. But the real practitioner of a language is someone to whom that language is native. Let me take up one or two side matters. The Minister spoke of Aboriginal studies being taught in the schools. This, of course, is a good thing in regard to Aboriginal secular life, artifacts and perhaps even some bark paintings. But the Minister has made some reservations. He spoke of those parts of ceremonial life which are approved by the community. A tremendous amount of ceremonial life is local and should not be the object of open study in an Aboriginal community, because from the Aboriginal point of view the efficacy or the nature of the ceremony depends upon the details of that ceremony being restricted. The profanation - to use that word in its technical sense - of the ceremony by its incorporation in school curricula might help to dissolve the power and the significance of it for Aboriginal people. Although I agree with what the Minister has said about incorporating Aboriginal skills, not necessarily formally in the curricula, I think some reservations have to be made in regard to the ceremonial life and that side of Aboriginal studies where the Aboriginals themselves should be consulted and in no way should they be pressurised into making public or more widespread the knowledge and significance of their ceremonies. 
Finally I would like to say that I hope on a wider scale that the Administration will not try to mix up the various tribes in a way which the tribes themselves would resent. Let us have no more instances like Maningrida where there seems to have been almost some kind of deliberate attempt to play down tribal significance. We have mixed groups which are very difficult and which I believe are not in the best interests of the Aborigines themselves. If there is to be mixture and a breaking down of the tribe then let the initiative come from the Aborigines. We should not try to push them harder or faster than they themselves would choose. I would almost hope that in some cases there might be within a limited framework some kind of re-sorting of the tribal situations, again not forcing it, but allowing the Aborigines themselves to choose it. As an example I am thinking of the Aboriginal settlements of Papunya and Yuendumu which are almost adjacent to each other. Perhaps there could be some interchange between the populations of those 2 settlements. I am not suggesting that members of those settlements should be shifted but 1 believe they should be allowed to decide whether there should be some interchange which might be to the advantage of everyone concerned. I do not want to say any more. I want to conclude my speech simply as I started by commending the paper and the Minister. 
The House has seldom heard the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  in better voice. It is a pity he was lacking a little in facts, logic and consistency. I think everybody would agree that the present rate of inflation is alarming. However, this is true not only in Australia; it is also almost a universal phenomenon. It is particularly worrying that inflation is getting to a point where it is becoming self-generating in that people are anticipating further price rises and, because they anticipate price rises, are ordering their affairs accordingly. So the nightmare becomes self-perpetuating. Remedial action is necessary on many fronts. This proposal, introduced by the Government, is one df them but not, I think, a very effective one. However it is something which may have some partial effect. Of course, even in the field of prices justification the effects of this committee will cover only a small part of the field. Nevertheless, in view of the serious situation which faces not only Australia but also most countries, even if this is ineffectual perhaps it should be considered. It represents, I suppose, some extension of what we would normally call a parliamentary function. It is not necessarily to be condemned for that reason but we must regard with caution extensions of parliamentary functions which can end up by being oppressive. The possibility of big brother looking over everybody's shoulder must be weighed against the problematical advantages which can come from a committee of this character. 
The committee will be judged by its results. Its bona fides will be assessed by what it does and by the way in which it behaves. If some honourable members have misapprehensions it does not necessarily follow that those misapprehensions are well founded. The event will show that. This committee - I turn now to the terms of the motion before the House - will be entirely under Government control. The Government will appoint 6 of the 10 members and will also appoint the  chairman.  The  chairman  and the majority will determine procedures. The committee will have great powers, including power to compel attendance before it, to send for persons and papers and things of that character. It will have a large and perhaps even an unwieldy staff, but the fact that it will have staff will add to its powers. Its quorum is to be 5 members only. Since the Government will be appointing 6 of its members the committee will be able to form a quorum without the presence of members of the Opposition. 
I am worried about the possible exercise of the power to appoint subcommittees consisting of 3 members without the precaution - and perhaps this will not happen in practice - of ensuring that the Opposition is represented on those subcommittees. It is possible - and again I say that this is not a certain result - that we shall have to be looking at the way in which this committee behaves. It is possible that it will develop into a kind of kangaroo court of the most objectionable character but this is not necessarily inherent in the motion before us. It is a possibility that one must consider and  we  will see the result. Whether these apprehensions are borne out or not will depend upon how the Committee behaves. Insofar as this is not set out in the motion the Committee, of course, will be acting under the Standing Orders of this House. 
I am a little bit worried about 2 matters. Firstly, the possibility of secrecy and the possibility of abuse of the secrecy provisions. Secondly, the lack of any effective machinery for a minority report to be brought into this House. However, the implications of these things, as I say, will be more apparent as the committee develops. All of us on this side hope that it will be an effective committee and I am sure that on this side there will be every effort to make it an effective committee. I hope that on the Government side there will not be any tendency to abuse the great powers and authority of the Committee. This, I say, must wait on the event and I believe that the House should very carefully scrutinise the operations of this Committee as they proceed. 
As has been stated, very rightly I think, by the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden),  the matter before this Committee which is set out in paragraph 1 of the motion before us is very wide. The Committee will be able to range very widely. Here again I think that the 
House should take note of what the Minister for Social Security said because he implied, and 1 think quite rightly, that such things as wages and wage conditions insofar as they affect prices would properly be before this Committee and it will, if the. words of the Minister mean anything, be able to investigate any price rises which are caused through wages or industrial conditions. I am not one of those who believe that all price rises are due to wages. I think that we have to preserve some sense of proportion in this regard and in looking at the position, particularly the Austraiian conditions but not exclusively Australian conditions, one would say that there ire 3 components in the price rise and I name them in descending order of magnitude. By far the greatest component is of course the rise in wages. It is not the only component but it outweighs the others. The second component is the industrial practice where restrictive practices, rolling strikes deliberately planned in some cases to sabotage production jnd to put prices up become effective and cause rising prices. But there are other factors coo. They are not as important as the 2 factors 1 have mentioned but they certainly are important and they certainly require to be considered. So if one can preserve a sense of proportion this Committee will be looking firstly, I think, at the cases where rises in wages have outstripped the rises in relevant productivity. Secondly, it will be looking at unjustified over-award payments which go to the root of higher costs and it will be looking at industrial practices, strikes, sabotage, unnecessary featherbedding and all that kind of thing. 
Let me make my own position clear on this. 1 am in favour of high and increasing real wages. I am not one of those who want to keep wages down or even one of those who is always going around saying that wages are too high. Industrial efficiency is increasing. For a given input of labour we can produce more and more real goods and, as this is so, real wages should continue to rise. I am not speaking just in terms of money wages. Money wages have to take account both of the real productive situation and of the price situation which is properly before this Committee but real wages should be pushed up to the highest possible level and this has to be done in a way which does not involve an increase in prices which absorbs all the money wage increases given from time to time. So do not write me down and do not write this side of the House down as low wage advocates. I believe in the highest possible level of real wages and furthermore I believe that we should be thinking in terms of improving industrial conditions whether this be by shorter hours or more holidays or things of that character. I hope when there is more time to debate this to return to this subject in this House. 
I am left in some doubt as to whether the terms of reference should be expanded and should be made more direct. It is quite true that if one takes what the Minister for Social Security said in this House a moment ago, all the matters that I have talked about will come properly within the scope of this Committee. Let me hope that there is good faith on the Government side. Let me hope that honourable members opposite mean what they say. It just seems to me that perhaps it would have been better if they had said what they meant and it would perhaps have been better if the protestations of the Minister for Social Security were in fact included in the draft terms of reference in paragraph 1 of this motion. 
In regard to the amendment moved by the Opposition I do not see that there is any reason why the House should not carry it. It does not go beyond the type of thing that the Minister was talking about. It may be true that the House examines in financial measures at other times matters of public policy but there are times when the effect of public policy on prices should be examined concurrently with the other factors which affect them and this could be done without any impairment of the other financial procedures of this House or any derogation from its other authority. I am surprised that the Government finds in any way obnoxious the amendment that has been moved by the Opposition. I would rather have thought that the Government would welcome it because it makes clearer what the Government professes to say through the mouth of the Minister for Social Security is the real impact and import of this motion before us. I should have liked to have said a great deal more in regard to the possibility of establishing a prices and wages policy. I believe that in the short term the establishment of this Committee is a reasonable proposal; in the long term it is self-defeating. Unhappily,  Mr Speaker,  you are about to say that my time has expired. Let rae anticipate that and now conclude my remarks. 
I remember reading a long time ago the most famous of all poems, namely, the 'Iliad'. It referred to the contest which occurred through the throwing of a golden apple. The Australian Country Party and the Liberal Party surely are united. The Labor Party has thrown a golden apple with the objective of dividing us. I regret that some people are more inclined to think of the apple than of the substance. The great thing to do is to oppose the tactics of the Labor Party in trying to divide the Liberal Party and the Country Party. 
I support very strongly the appointment of this proposed committee and, in doing so, join with other honourable members in congratulating the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  in having moved this motion. This is not the first occasion on which the House is indebted to him and I am sure that it will not be the last. I think that the amendment proposed by the Government is perhaps an improvement and I am glad that he and his seconder have welcomed it so that it can now become the motion. In passing, I congratulate also the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  on the announcement he has made regarding the future conduct of private members business. This is most important for this House, and the fact that he is supporting the principle of private members business coming to a vote is, indeed, something which T believe we should all commend and support. 
In relation to the particular matter before the House, much has been said and there is little need to add to it. I believe the matters of technical difficulties that have been raised can be overcome. They do not seem to me to be insuperable. However, other matters before the committee will be far more difficult than the resolution of these technical points. Many of these points already have been canvassed. There are 2 things which are in a way separate, which the committee will have to consider. The first is the impact of television upon the efficiency and conduct of this House. In some respects this may be important, in others it may be regressive. I do not know. It obviously will have a great impact and the committee will have to be looking at the effect of any suggestion it makes about television upon the conduct of affairs in this House. 
The second point which the honourable member for Bradfield raised concerned the communication between this House, the electors and the people of Australia. It is a related question, I suppose, but it is a separate question and it may be that what is consideration going in one direction with regard to conduct in this House may go in another direction with respect to the relationship between this House and the electors. This would have to be weighed, one against the other. On the question of matters which may come before the House, I regard, with some apprehension, any possible editorial function in these telecasts. I am afraid that it is almost impossible to be certain of fairness. It may be that the committee can devise some way of doing it but I have some doubt whether it is possible, editorially, to be fair. 
The next point - I think this was raised by an honourable member opposite; I forget which but it is a good point - whether television will tend to exaggerate the fewer principle - to make the personality of a few leaders or the leaders more important than the personality of honourable members of this House. This is something which is quite important and has to be evaluated. Thirdly, I feel that whatever is done in the first place should be done gradually. We should not endeavour to lay down from this committee a final decision. It would perhaps be better to start in a smaller way with the objective of expanding after the experience of a year or two rather than to try to start with a full and complete scheme. 
It does seem to me that question time lends itself particularly to the introduction of any possible television program. At question time the House is full. All honourable members participate. Perhaps question time could be used in such a way as to give to all honourable members a reasonably fair chance and without introducing the difficulties of editorial selection.  Mr Speaker  or  Mr Deputy Speaker  must do a certain amount of editing at question time when giving the call but nevertheless there are conventions in this House which do give a certain fairness. I would hope that if we started anywhere we would start with question time and if it be thought that the whole of question time is too long to inflict on viewers or if it be thought, for example, that question time should be confined to a quarter of an hour or 20 minutes on the air then perhaps we could consider a bit of a lottery. That is to say, that the 20 minutes to be selected should be by chance so that everybody would get a fair go and we would not have the editorial responsibility superimposed on the position and we would not get the bias of an editor. 
If it be found for technical reasons that the whole of question time cannot be televised - I myself would prefer to see the whole of question time televised - then I think that the segments to be televised should be selected by chance so that there would be a fair opportunity for every member of the House and editorial opinion would not be superimposed. I say all these things with the background that if anything is to be introduced it should, in my view, be introduced on a smaller scale to start with and later on expanded as experience indicates. I support the amended motion and once again congratulate, as we all do, the honourable member for Bradfield for having brought this matter forward. 
I listened with great attention to the Minister for Science and Minister for External Territories  (Mr Morrison).  One would agree with him that the proposed committee must be judged by its results. He has said that under this new Government the committee will be able to investigate what it wishes to. It can investigate what it wishes to only if the Government majority on the committee will permit this to happen, and this will be the test of the committee. Will the minority of the committee be able to investigate the things which it wants to investigate, the things which are important. The things which are important, of course, relate to the way in which this Government, without mandate, is taking Australia into the communist orbit. This is the most important matter in foreign policy. Are members of the committee to be entitled to investigate this? If there is any good faith in what the Minister has said, this is what they will be investigating. 
We have been talking for some time, for example, of terrorist organisations in Australia. Will this committee be allowed to investigate terrorist organisations of the Left which exist in Australia? The Communist Party is a terrorist party. It certainly has foreign links. Is the committee to be allowed to investigate this? We have been talking of so-called alleged Croatian terror, but what about the UDBA, the terrorists of the Titoists? Yugoslavia is today one of the main centres of terror and terrorist activities in Europe. There seems to be a quite inordinate number of staff in the Titoist consulates throughout Australia. What are they doing? Is the committee to be allowed to investigate whether they are part of a terrorist organisation in Australia and elsewhere? Is the committee to investigate the way in which totalitarian nations abroad gaol Australians for what they call subversive activities but which are in reality only the expression of opinion? In Yugoslavia or in Russia it is a crime to express publicly an opinion which is contrary to that of the government, and people are gaoled for so doing. 
Will the committee protect our Australian citizens who may return for a visit to their homelands? There are plenty of things at which the committee can look. It will be a test of good faith of the Government. Does it mean what the Minister said on its behalf at the table a moment ago? The test will be whether the minority on this committee is able to investigate the matters I have outlined, which are of real importance and significance to the Australian people. Particularly, will the committee be muzzled by a majority vote when it wants to look at the direction of foreign policy and, in particular, when it wants to look at the major scandal of the last few months when - without a mandate, because these things were not mentioned in the election campaign - the Government has changed sides for Australia and now wants to put us into the communist as against the free world? 

 - Mr Speaker-- 

That the question be now put. 
I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would preclude the present debate from continuing. 
 Mr Speaker-- 
Question put: 
I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would preclude the re-opening of the debate upon order of the day No. 9 on today's business paper. 
Order of the day No. 9 reads: 
Croatian terrorism - Ministerial statement - Motion to take note of the paper- 
I do this because under the motion which was carried earlier debate on this matter was entirely truncated. In point of fact, there has been no substantial debate on this aspect of the matter. The Government said that it would allow free and full debate. It cut down the speakers to 3 a side. That was known in advance, but in addition, because there were many items in the compendious motion of the Government, the aspects of the statement relating to Croatian events and affairs were not sufficiently debated. 
I believe it is important that this House should debate this statement, and there are many reasons for this. First, I believe it is necessary to correct public misapprehension fostered very cunningly and very, competently by the Government, which is creating prejudice against all Croatians. A one-sided case has been presented. This goes right back even to the historical perspective. The Prime Minis- ter  (Mr Whitlam)  today and last week spoke in this House about the history of the matter, and most of the facts he gave were correct, but they were not the whole facts, and by selection he gave a quite distorted and false picture of what has occurred. It is important for honourable members to remember that in the country which is now Yugoslavia there have been tensions for well over  100  years. These are racial tensions - ethnic tensions - which go back for a long time. It is perfectly true, as the Prime Minister said, that Croat organisations- 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
 I was somewhat surprised by the speech of the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman),  who has just resumed his seat. I would have thought that as a man trained in a university he would not be guilty of the egregious logical errors which he committed. I am speaking particularly about his remarks in relation to the costs of the measure. He said that the previous Government's proposals, which I introduced, involved costs which the present proposals do not. The present proposals involve costs for 2 simple reasons, which I would like to bring to the honourable member's attention. The first reason is that the existing legislation does not leave much of a loophole for people to come to Australia and plunder the Treasury by receiving pensions. This Bill, as I will show, does leave some such loopholes. 
The second reason is that under our existing agreement with the United Kingdom, people who go to the United Kingdom - I &gt;tm speaking not of those people who qualify under an agreement made under section 137 of the Act but of those people who have lived here for 10 years or more - are paid a pension in the United Kingdom, that being their permanent residence. That would not he so under this Bill. So there are quite considerable additional costs involved in this Bill which were not involved in the existing legislation. Perhaps the honourable member for Prospect is a little ignorant in these matters, but as a trained man he should not commit that kind of egregious error. 
Our present system of pensions differs from those operating in most parts of the world. T except New Zealand where there is a good deal of parallelism with the Australian system. There are two or three reasons for that difference. The first reason is that the Australian pension comes on all at once. It is all or nothing. It is a certain sum. I am not speaking of the means test or anything like that but of the pension rate. One either is eligible for the pension or is not. In most overseas systems the pension rate comes on gradually and one accumulates a pension for every year of work, or every year of contribution. That is common to most European systems and to the United Kingdom system. It is an aspect in which the Australian system materially differs. 
Our pensions are non-contributory. This is unusual overseas. Our system is not unique, but that aspect is unusual overseas. Therefore, overseas pension rights are almost personal property like an insurance policy or any other investment. They are different in kind, therefore, from rights in Australia which are not tied to personal and individual contributions. The third reason is that insofar as flat rate pensions are concerned, our rates are very high indeed in comparison with the rates of other countries. For example, using a conversion at the current rate of exchange, the United Kingdom standard rate of pension is equivalent to $13.60 a week as against our pension of $21.50 a week. The married rate in the United Kingdom is equal to $21,90 a week as against the Australian married rate of $37.50. The United Kingdom pensions are comparatively high. Of course, they are supplemented by contributory pensions but I am now talking of basic rates. The basic rates current in most European countries, apart from the pensions which are bought through contributions, make the Australian rates seem astronomically high for non-contributory pensions. 
There is also the question of the means test. It is a vexed question which I will not go into at the moment. It is true that the previous Government did a very great deal. In fact, most migrants - not all, but most - were covered. In respect of the United Kingdom and New Zealand we were covered by reciprocal agreements. In respect of migrants from Italy, Malta, Greece and Turkey we were covered by agreements negotiated under the new legislation. We were about to conclude agreements with France, the Netherlands and many other countries which are set out in the list in the second reading speech of the Minister for 
Social Security  (Mr Hayden).  We were proceeding well with negotiations and I am quite certain that it would not have been long before we concluded agreements. 
Under the existing legislation people became eligible for pensions only after 20 years residence in Australia after the age of 16 years. This was meant to cover the normal working life and to bring some kind of congruence and equivalence with the general position in Europe or the United Kingdom. It is absolutely fair, of course, that a person who has contributed by taxation or in other ways to the Australian revenue throughout his working life, or by his working life has contributed to the Australian economy, whether by actually working himself, or in the case of a woman by helping to raise a family or in other domestic work - if they have actually been contributing throughout their 20 years of working life after the age of 16 years - it is fair and reasonable for them to take their pensions overseas. I am not quite certain that it is not a little over generous to do what is done in this Bill and I will come back to that in a moment. I think it is open to abuses. 
I will contrast the present Bill with the half baked Bill which was brought into the House by the present Government when it was in Opposition. That Bill was deficient in 3 main aspects. Firstly, it applied only to Australian citizens and therefore ignored those people who had lived and worked in Australia for a long time but had not taken out naturalisation. Secondly, it did nothing to protect the pension rights coming from overseas of people who had left their home countries to settle in Australia. Thirdly, it opened the Australian Treasury to plunder on a massive scale because it would allow people to come here in very big numbers in order to qualify for a pension. These 3 defects were inherent in the Bill which was brought down by the present Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  It was certainly a very amateurish and unsatisfactory effort. 
To some extent this Bill has profited from what the previous Government did. It has corrected some of the errors which were inherent in the previous Government's legislation. It applies to all people in Australia, irrespective of whether they are citizens. That is an improvement. It does not in any way give us the power to negotiate with other countries in order to protect the pension rights accruing from overseas of people who have come to settle permanently in Australia. It does to some extent close the loopholes for plunder of the Australian Treasury which I had to point out in the House last year to the then Opposition. I am afraid that it does not close them absolutely, but it does close them substantially. 
I will go into that aspect in more detail. I will turn my mind particularly to what is known as the widow's pension. About half of the recipients of widows' pensions are not widows in the technical sense at all; they are divorced and separated women, etc. 
MrJames- Half? 
Yes, half. There is the very distinct possibility that people who were contemplating separation or divorce and wanted to make arrangements by mutual consent under which the wife would not have to be maintained by the husband would be able to come to Australia, get almost instantly an Australian pension and take it away permanently with her for life. This is something which is not terribly good. We do not want to become a kind of divorce Bill for the United Kingdom. It seems to me that, although proposed new section 83ae of the Bill attempts to close this loophole to some extent - perhaps the Minister is a little inexperienced and perhaps he did not quite understand what he was doing - he has not quite closed that particular loophole. It is true that a couple coming from overseas, contemplating this separation or divorce, would have to serve their 5 years here, but if they came from the United Kingdom or New Zealand, that of course would not be so. I think it would open the door to very considerable abuses. I will be taking a point in regard to the drafting of proposed new section 83ae in Committee, which is a technical point perhaps but I think the Government should consider it. I would suggest to the Government that it might redraft proposed new section 83ae in order to carry out better the objectives which it has set. 
I shall now look at the other question. Let us take an Australian citizen who came from the United Kingdom and has been in Australia for 10 years and therefore is eligible for a pension in his own right irrespective of the agreement with the United Kingdom. At present that person could not take his pension overseas, but if he went back to the United Kingdom his pension would be paid there. This, of course, is balancing up the obligation we have undertaken to pay pensions to United Kingdom residents here in Australia, If he went back the pension would be paid by the United Kingdom. Under this Bill, if he went back the pension would not be paid by the United Kingdom; it would be paid by us because our rate is in excess of the United Kingdom rate. If he had the qualifying period in the United Kingdom before he came here, as many of these people have, he would be entitled to draw a British pension as well as an Australian pension. 
He would be entitled to draw the two because the British pension, being a contributory pension, is of the nature of property. There are technical things which flow from the agreement. I know there are legal difficulties. It is quite a subtle business in order to see how the impact of the agreement is felt. It is perfectly true that the Minister in his second reading speech said that he proposed to renegotiate the agreement but, as the honourable member  for  Corangamite  (Mr Street)  said a moment ago, renegotiation means both sides. Both sides must come to some agreement in regard to this. This renegotiation will be dependent on the proposals we make being acceptable to the United Kingdom, unless the Minister intends to take the strong arm view and say to the United Kingdom: 'If you do not like our terms we will denounce the agreement, as we have a right to do, and then former United Kingdom citizens in Australia will not get the benefit of the agreement'. I do not know what the Minister means to do. It may well be that there will be amity and reasonableness about the negotiations. But when going into negotiations of this character I do not think it is a good thing to give away everything in advance, as this Bill apparently does. 
In Committee I shall be speaking about some of the technicalities of proposed new section 83ae. I will not go into that now. There is just one final point that I want to make which is of substance and which I think is proper to be made in my speech at the second reading stage. We all want a fair thing to be done to the migrants that come to Australia, whether they come from the United Kingdom or from Europe or wherever it may be. Wherever they come from we want to treat them fairly, but we do not want to be over-generous to them at the expense of the Australian taxpayer. We have to think of the interests of the ordinary Australian, and in thinking of that we are also thinking of the interests of the migrant, because if we are over-generous there can be a backlash and that kind of backlash is not in the interests of the migrant community. The migrant community should be treated fairly, but if migrants require over-generous treatment, in the short term they may get advantage and the Australian Labor Party may get votes, but over the long term that is not to the advantage of the groups in the migrant community. They need goodwill and they are entitled to goodwill for fair treatment. This backlash can be quite dangerous. 
I do not know whether honourable members - 1 am speaking now not of migrants but of Aborigines - saw recently on television a backlash from towns in the Northern Territory about what was being done for our Aborigines. I am entirely in favour of differential treatment for the advantage of our Aborigines. I am in favour of that - and I do not want anything I say to be misinterpreted - but if you go too far there is always the possibility of a backlash which in the end does damage to the very groups whom you are trying to help. For the migrants also I say this: A fair go is what they are entitled to and what we should give them, but we should be very careful that we are not opening the Australian Treasury to plunder - not by the migrants who are here; they are not the people I am talking about at all. I am talking about the carpet baggers who might come here, if the loopholes were, here, for the express purpose of plundering the Australian Treasury. This we do not want, and if these carpet baggers come from overseas to Australia for this purpose they will be doing things which are to the disadvantage of those good migrants who are now in Australia, whom we want to help and who are entitled to fair deals. 
I move: 
In proposed section 83ae, omit 'giving effect to an agreement referred to in section 137, a pension payable by virtue of those regulations', substitute 'where a person's eligibility for pension is dependent upon regulations giving effect to an agreement under section 137 of the Principal Act,  a  pension'. 
This may seem to be a technical amendment. It has 2 distinct purposes. The Bill repeals sections 49 and 78 of the Principal Act which allow for the payment of invalid and widows' pensions for 30 weeks after a pensioner returns to Australia. I think that as a general principle we should not take away one of the privileges at present existing in the Act. The Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  must have overlooked the fact that, because of the peculiar way in which this clause is drafted, it takes away certain of those privileges. This applies to people taking their Australian pension under the provisions of an agreement made in accordance with section 137 of the Act. 
Proposed section 83AE provides that, except as provided by regulations, a pension is not payable in respect of any period during which the pensioner is outside Australia. I would like the Committee to consider the position of persons taking their pensions by virtue of an agreement in terms of section 137. I refer to the reciprocal agreement with the United Kingdom or New Zealand. When those people go abroad to the United Kingdom or New Zealand, as the case may be, they can draw their temporary pensions while they are there. They receive the 30-weeks privilege on going there and coming back under which they can draw their pensions. But at present if they visit the United States, Canada, India or somewhere else and are away for 30 weeks, on their return to Australia they are able to receive their 30 weeks back pensions. Under the Bill before the Committee they cannot do so unless a new regulation is brought in. 
Unfortunately, this clause has been drafted in a clumsy way which prevents such a new regulation being brought in. It says: 'except as provided by regulations giving effect to an agreement referred to in section 137'. A regulation of the kind I have mentioned would not be a regulation giving effect to an agreement referred to in section 137. Therefore, if we pass the Bill in its present clumsy form it would be impossible legally to provide a regulation retaining for these people a privilege which already exists. For that reason it is necessary to rephrase the clause, which has been wrongly drawn. This will not alter the intention or what the Minister meant as the sense of it. The clause has the effect, which I know the Minister did not intend, of taking away from certain pensioners in Australia rights which they possess at present. I think this must be looked at. In my amendment I have changed the order of words a little, so that it will make it possible for the Minister to do what I have no doubt he really intended to do. This is purely a technical matter. 
The second matter to which I draw attention is a more difficult one because it has a legal doubt in it. All I am concerned with is removing a legal doubt. In regard to this second matter I am raising, which is a more substantial matter, it may be that the law would carry out what the Minister intends. But the drafting is very obscure. I want to consider this carefully. If the Minister looks at Article 8 and Article 27 of the existing agreement with the United Kingdom he will see what I mean. There is a legal point of some complexity here. Article 27 says that a person shall be taken to be permanently resident in Australia if he has resided here 3 years or he has been here for one year and the authorities of both countries - that is, the United Kingdom and Australia; it cannot be done unilaterally - have not agreed that he should not be treated as a permanent resident. I know that the Minister has said that he will renegotiate this agreement but he has not yet done so, and I do not think that we should pass sloppy laws here related to agreements to be negotiated some time in the future. 
I turn now to Article 8 which is the important one. It says that for the purposes of any claim to receive, an age pension a person who is permanently resident in Australia shall be treated as if he was a resident there during any period in which he was resident in the United Kingdom. The important technical words are 'any claim'. If the claim is accepted his pension becomes an Australian pension. It could well be held that, because of the use of this technical word 'claim' which has a meaning in the Principal Act, proposed section 83AE does not do what it intends to do. I know that is a doubtful point. I know it is a point of considerable legal complexity, but it seems to me that when we pass a Bill we should not pass one which has a doubtful application. I have therefore redrawn the proposed section so that it will do what I believe the Minister intended it to do. I do not think that the Minister could cavil at my words. I shall read the clause as it would be if it were amended: 
Except as provided by regulations where a person's eligibility for pension is dependent upon regulations giving effect to an agreement under section 137 of the principal Act, a pension is noi payable in respect of any period during which the pensioner is outside Australia. 
I think that this amendment gives effect to what the Minister intended and gets rid of any possible ambiguity in the meaning of the phrase concerned. I do not see how the Minister could really object to this amendment because at the same time as it does this it also removes the thing which the Minister has done in this Bill and did not intend to do, that is, to take away certain travel privileges from people who are now entitled to them. So I ask the Minister to consider whether this amendment might not be acceptable to the Government. 1 do not quite see why he should refuse to accept it in the circumstances. He said a moment ago when he talked about a pension in Australia being- 
I am afraid that the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  has not understood the position. I ask him to apply his mind to it again. He cited clauses  14  and  15  of the Bill. These clauses do not apply at all to the cases of which I am speaking. I shall go through the matter again for the Minister so that he will understand it. I am not talking about people in the Territories; I am talking about people in Australia. I am not talking about people who left immediately before the commencement of the provisions of the principal Act. I am talking about people who may at some time in the future, perhaps years in the future, leave Australia. Let us turn our attention to the position of these people who are at present drawing an Australian pension by virtue of section  137  of the principal Act. 
At present if such a person decides to have a holiday in the United States of America and is away for  30  weeks, on his return to Australia he is eligible to be paid that  30  weeks pension. That is his existing privilege now. If this Bill is passed he will lose this privilege which stems from sections  49  and  78  of the principal Act, sections which are repealed by this Bill. So he would lose this right at present provided under those sections. If this Bill is passed in its present form can that right be reinstated by regulation? The  answer is no,  because proposed new section  83ae  of the Bill states: 
Except as provided by regulations giving effect to an agreement referred to in section 137 a pension payable by virtue of those regulations is not payable in respect of any period during which the pensioner is outside Australia. 
If a man goes to the United States and is outside Australia for a period the Act states that a pension is not payable to him in respect of that period. I know that the Minister is new in the game and does not perhaps understand all aspects of the Act. He has not really turned his mind to this aspect but I am sure that when he does he will see the real import of what I am saying. 
This Act, not by any intention of the Minister but because of the way in which it is drawn, is taking away from a certain class of Australian pensioner a privilege which he possesses at present. This is something which I know that the Minister did not intend. I do not think we should pass the clause in a form which does something which the Minister does not intend. I know that the Minister has a certain degree of stubborn pride. He does not want to admit that he has been wrong. But in this case he is wrong. What I have said about this clause is quite incontrovertible. The fact that the Minister cited clauses  14  and  15  to me, which were utterly irrelevant to the point under consideration, shows that he does not really understand, or did not a few moments ago, what the amendment is all about. I do not think he means to penalise this class of pensioner. 
Well, does he? There is all sorts of fine print in the Minister's mind. We are entitled to know about this fine print. I suggest to the Minister that he would lose nothing by accepting my amendment, so why does he not accept it? Why does he not at least have the grace to admit that he has been wrong? Perhaps this is a minor matter but he has been wrong. Why should the Minister be stubborn about it? Why does he not admit that he is wrong and allow this little, quite formal amendment to be accepted? it would really be no skin off the Minister's nose. The fact that a few moments ago the Minister cited clauses 14 and 15 of the Bill to me, which are utterly irrelevant, shows that perhaps through my lack of clarity I had not explained to him what my amendment was all about. I have tried to explain it now. 
The Minister would save money at the expense of the pensioner? I do not think so. There is fine print in the mind of the Minister for Social Security but it is fine print on much bigger issues than this. I do not think that he means to do this, so I suggest that he thinks again. 
I move: 
After clause15 add the following new clause: 16. (1) Where the Director-General is satisfied that a person has become resident in Australia solely or mainly for the purpose of establishing eligibility for a pension, he may determine that some or all of any pension for which that person has become eligible should not be paid while that person is absent from Australia. 
Where a person in receipt of a pension is also in receipt of or is eligible for a pension, benefit or superannuation in some country other than Australia, and in the opinion of the Director-General that pension, benefit or superannuation corresponds to his pension in Australia, then the Director-General may determine that some or all of his Australian pension should not be payable while he is absent from Australia. 
The operation of this section shall not affect any pension payable under section 13 of this Act. 
This clause is meant to protect the taxpayer and revenue, to stop the plunder of the Treasury and to stop exploitation. At the same time, it will protect the migrant community from any possible backlash which might come not from the people who at present are in Australia but from people who might otherwise come to Australia for the purpose of receiving a pension and taking it overseas. 1 think this is of considerable importance. Let us consider, for example, the many thousands - indeed, many tens of thousands - of people who have lived in Australia, perhaps as children, and are now resident in either New Zealand or the United Kingdom. These people in the United Kingdom certainly would be eligible, if they have the other qualifications, for a United Kingdom pension. Admittedly the United Kingdom pension is much smaller than the Australian pension unless they build it up with graduated contributions, but they ure eligible for that pension. If these people elect to return to Australia and have a holiday here in their homeland for only a year they can go back to the United Kingdom and take with them a permanent Australian pension which would be payable in addition to their United Kingdom pension. This. I am sure, is not what the Minister had in mind, because why should an expatriate be placed in a better position with respect to a pension than an Australian? Why should it be possible for an Australian who has elected to live abroad almost permanently to be able to return to Australia for a little time and double his pension - get the 2 pensions? This is, I think, in the nature of things, entirely wrong. 
There is also the question of possible abuse with the widow's pensions. I am not talking about the genuine widow whose husband has died but about the notional or nominal widow who has been divorced, or has divorced or has been separated. She is a widow for widow's pension purposes and, indeed, there may be more than that because the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  announced some time ago that he would give the widow's pension to the mothers of illegitimate children. I am told that he will not call them widow's pension. They will be on the widow's pension rates but they will be called 'supportive services', a name which I think would not altogether commend itself to Womens Lib: but never mind that. If the Minister carries out the intention which he expressed in his original Press statement and pays the widow's pension to these people it seems likely that we will have many women coming to Australia for the purpose of giving birth and having their offspring qualified, or qualifying themselves, for widow's pensions. They would have only to remain here for a short time  -  I do not know quite how long but 1 think that probably under the Bill, as it is drawn, they would only have to remain for one year or perhaps less. If my amendment to proposed new section 83ae had been accepted they would have had to remain here for 5 years in order to qualify. These are very difficult matters and one does not want in any way to be ungenerous but because the period has been shortened from 20 years to 
JO years- 
Consideration interrupted. 

 - Mr Speaker, a few moments ago it was intimated to me that the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  would not allow debate on this matter to proceed to any length unless I gave him an undertaking to withdraw another motion standing in my name. With the very greatest reluctance, but in view of the importance of the matter now before the House and my desire to push it through to a vote, I now give the Leader of the House the undertaking that today I withdraw the other motion standing in my name. 
I now proceed with the motion which is before the House standing in my name relating to the abolition of the means test. It is of very great importance. I have said that I will withdraw the other motion standing in my name relating to  Mr Speaker,  so that is that. I ask leave to withdraw that motion. 
 First, let me go into the history of this matter. The abolition of the means test is fundamentally in line with Liberal Party philosophy and fundamentally opposed to Australian Labor Party philosophy. This policy was stated in the Liberal constitution as it was when I first came into this Parliament, But because of the need to move towards this gradually we instead undertook a plan of gradual, progressive liberalisation aimed at eventual abolition. That plan culminated in the announcement regarding abolition made in the Budget of 1972 by the then Treasurer. This was what was done by the Liberal Party and it was fundamentally in line with the policy of the party. The means test is a socialistic device and its abolition is therefore fundamentally out of line with Labor philosophy. 
In 1954,  Dr Evatt  who then led the Labor Party at an election made a pledge on this matter without consulting the ALP authorities, for vote getting purposes. Members of the Labor Party then and subsequently in the House pointed out that this was out of line with Labor policy. Indeed, it was the bitterness that arose from this that, on  Dr Evatt's  own statement of 1955, was one of the prime causes for the attitude he adopted which led to the formation of the Democratic Labor Party. However, the Australian Labor Party platform does in point of fact call for the abolition of the means test within the life not of one but of two Parliaments, as well as the use of a national superannuation scheme in order to cover the whole thing up. This is what I suspect is happening. 
In the statements which were made by the present Minister for Social Security - he has put out a voluminous packet of statements over the last couple of years - he talked about the abolition of the means test being undertaken over 6 years or 2 Parliaments. That of course is in line with Labor policy. But the Prime Minister in his election speech again went against his Party's policy and said: We will do it in one Parliament'. He was trying to match what the Liberal Party had done and was saying: 'Anything you can do, we can do better'. That seems to be his motto. But I do not want to underestimate this; I should like to put it much more seriously. This action of the Prime Minister which went against fundamental Labor Party policy and which violated the written platform of his Party was taken quite cynically for vote catching purposes and it was effective. The fraud worked. The voters were taken in by it. I suppose the Prime Minister would say as a king of France said once, earlier, when he had to swallow his beliefs: 'Paris is worth a Mass'. The Labor Party is now seated on that side of the House and I suppose that its members feel that their fraud has paid off. The important thing is that once again, there is a suspicion of bad faith in the Labor Party. 
As to the form of the motion before the House, there are 3 points that I would make. Originally, I had a simple motion to do what a Liberal government would have done, namely, to get rid of the entire means test to those over 65 years of age at the next Budget. Because of the way in which the Labor Party has gone on feeding the fires of inflation and the financial situation which it itself is creating, which is quite different from the proper ordered development which would have gone on had we been returned to office, it may be felt that this is not practicable immediately. The total cost would be somewhere in the bracket of $200m to $250m a year, but the net cost, if the Government, as it should, made it taxable for those with high incomes, would be very much less than that. However, two things must be said. First, the present Government's policy has caused an inflation which could not have been foreseen. Nobody thought that the Government would be quite as stupid as it has been, although I do not believe that the Budget measures themselves or the financial measures taken in the House are the prime cause of the inflation. The prime cause lies, unfortunately, outside this House and in things that the Government is doing outside this House. I do not believe that the prime cause of what is happening is the financial measures taken in this House. Although the means test abolition would be counter inflationary over the long run, in the short run it may add a little, perhaps not a significant amount, to an inflationary situation which is at present coming into existence. 
If it is not all to be done in the next Budget, as I am sure the Liberal Government would have done, let there be at least a substantial and positive instalment. We have a right to demand that now and we have a right to demand that the Labor Government should unveil some of its shadowy plans and let us have some kind of a schedule for what it is doing and what it is pledged to do in the next 3 years. The Government should give us some kind of explanation of the substantial difference between the policy speech of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the statement of 20th March by the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden).  However, that is not the main point. The real point of this motion being in this form - why it has been strengthened and put in this form - is that I believe the Gov ernment is plotting another kind of swindle, another kind of fraud, lt will not really abolish the means test. It will say that it will abolish the means test but it will involve this in some kind of new deal, which is dependent upon what will not be called taxation - it may be called a contribution - but what will, in effect, still be taxation. If one reads the voluminous and sometimes mutually contradictory memoranda which the Minister for Social Security put out while he was still a member of the Opposition, people will see what I mean and know what I fear. 
The position is this: I frankly do not trust the Treasury advice which the Government is receiving. In the last Government the Treasury fought tooth and nail against the abolition of the means test. The responsible officers of the Treasury told the head of what was then my Department that abolition would take place over their dead bodies. That was the Treasury's view. To the credit of the previous Government it over-rode the Treasury. Cabinet had sufficient strength to stand up and make this decision in the teeth of Treasury advice. It was a good decision and a right decision. Treasury officials were guilty of a good deal of special pleading and duplicity in the material they brought forward. I will not, of course, speak on what they put to Cabinet because it would be wrong for me to do so, but I know what they put to people outside of Cabinet. In this matter the Treasury cannot be trusted. It will be inciting the Government to perpetuate this kind of swindle. I believe that the Minister for Social Security, from his own previous memoranda, will be only too ready and eager to accept Treasury advice in this matter. I would be more confident, of course, in this matter if the Department of Social Security, which used to be my Department, were still under the control of  Mr L.  B. Hamilton, the former Director-General and one of the most competent officers in the Public Service. He has been succeeded in that position. I know the circumstances of this but I am not prepared to talk about them. He has been succeeded by  Dr Wienholt  and I am not trying in any way to denegrate  Dr Wienholt  or write him down but I simply say his ability is not nearly as great as that of  Mr Hamilton,  the man who has left. This is not meant as a criticism or denegration of  Dr Wienholt  but as a commendation of  Mr Hamilton.  Since we have the Minister's new appointment as head of the Department of Social Security and since honourable members know of the Minister's own ambitions I would feel that perhaps the Weight of Treasury advice - if I can put the Word advice in inverted commas - would be such as to induce the Government not to do the clean thing, not to get rid of the means test but to involve the abolition of the means test, in some other kind of financial shenanigans. 
It is necessary to separate this question of the abolition of the means test, for which the Prime Minister in his policy speech gave a clear and unequivocal pledge, which I believe he is not going to keep, from the question of national superannuation. I believe and assert that it is important for us to have a scheme of national superannuation. I hope that I shall have an opportunity of bringing a private member's Bill for this purpose before this Parliament in due course but I do not believe that national superannuation should be involved with this simple question of justice - the abolition of the means test. Let this be done cleanly, let h be done altogether in the next Budget, or, if not entirely in the next Budget, substantially in the next Budget, and let a pledge and a clear program be indicated for carrying out the rest of the program. 
Yes. The Leader of the House has emitted what I can only describe as a string of falsehoods. I want to put the record straight by recounting the course of events of this morning. I was asked to withdraw my second motion so that debate could proceed on the first one for the whole morning. I regarded this first motion as being of greater importance and I said that I would withdraw the second motion. I carried out my part of the bargain. The Government welched on its part of the bargain because after I had withdrawn the second motion the Government then welched on, and violated, its part of the pact. It moved the gag and truncated the debate. 
The course of events, as I have recounted them, is correct. I withdrew my motion on the understanding that the debate on the abolition of the means test would proceed. On that understanding the Government violated its pledge. Against the arrangements which had been made the Government called on the question to be put; it put on the gag. It stopped the debate. 
Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I cannot put the record straight without recounting the course of events as they occurred. I make it clear that I made a bargain. I was prepared to stick to that bargain and I stuck to it. It was the Government that violated it. The Government, against the arrangement that had been made and in entire violation- 
Thank you. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The honourable member will not argue with the Chair. The last  speaker  was the Leader of the House. 
Question put - 
That the motion be agreed to. 
I  move: 
That  Mr Speaker  ought to be ashamed of himself. 
This motion is carefully drawn and relates not merely to the incidents in the House which immediately preceded my giving notice. I do not think that the House wants to censure  Mr Speaker  nor do I think that the House believes that he ought to be called upon to leave the chair. Nevertheless, I think that in some respects his conduct has been unsatisfactory and more notice should be taken of it than a simple motion of dissent. I have therefore framed my motion in these terms. This is not a censure of  Mr Speaker  and it is not meant as such. It is something stronger than dissent from his ruling; it is not as strong as a censure. It is meant to be some kind of intermediate motion because he is a new  Speaker  and, as such, I think that the House should show him tolerance and give him the understanding that always goes to a person who is occupying a new office. Therefore I have moved that in the opinion of the House  Mr Speaker  ought to be ashamed of himself. I give 2 reasons for this motion. The first relates to  Mr Speaker's  failure to apply standing order No. 77 which states: 
When any offensive or disorderly words are used, whether by a Member who is addressing the Chair or by a Member who is present, the  Speaker  shall intervene. 
This has been a rule, so far as the present  Speaker  is concerned, honoured more in the breach than in the observance. I call the attention of  Mr Speaker  - he no doubt will be reading Hansard record of this debate - to this standing order, and suggest that he consider whether he has been at fault in not applying it more in accordance with the real duties of his office. I hope that in future he will apply it more effectively. I instance 2 incidents. First, something that was said about myself by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  He said at one stage - I think it is on record although I have not checked Hansard, but it was certainly recorded in the Press, - that I ought to be certified. These are quite definitely offensive words which come under the provision of standing order 77.  Mr Speaker  did not intervene as he should have done. The second incident again refers to the present Prime Minister. On this occasion he was not referring to me but to a former Prime Minister. Gratuitously, the Prime Minister, referring to the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  said: 'Help him to his feet somebody.' This was a most offensive remark which was meant to imply that the honourable member for Lowe was, in some way, physically incapable of getting to his feet. Anyone who knows the honourable member for Lowe will appreciate that as a squash player he would be able to put to shame for physical fitness most members of this House. It was an offensive remark to have made about any member of this Parliament. It was an especially offensive remark to have been made by a Prime Minister relying on his office. It was doubly offensive when it was made of a former Prime Minister. On that occasion  Mr Speaker  did not do his duty and intervene. I have given 2 instances, but if honourable members look through the Hansard record they will see that, in fact, there have been more. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The time for the debate has expired. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  1 refused leave for one purpose only, namely, that I wished to look up some references. This motion came on unexpectedly. I was not prepared for it and I propose to continue my remarks at the (first convenient opportunity. 
I ask for  a  withdrawal of that remark. 
-I continue with what I was saying, unprepared though I am. The first point I make is that  Mr Speaker  has not complied sufficiently with the provisions of standing order 77. My second point is more substantial. It is that  Mr Speaker  has shown an undue deference to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  It is very important that our  Speaker  should be a man of complete impartiality. I am quite aware of the position that the Prime Minister can make or break the  Speaker.  In the past, I have seen Speakers stand up to Prime Ministers, butI have not seen the present  Speaker  so willing to stand up for himself against the Prime Minister. It is almost pathetic to see the way in which  Mr Speaker  glances for approval at the Prime Minister. It is almost pathetic to see the way that he lets the Prime Minister get away with statements and breaches of the rules of this House with a latitude which other honourable members would not be allowed. Honourable members may remember the reactions of Alice in the song 'Sweet Alice Ben Bolt'. She 'wept with delight when you gave her a smile and trembled with  fear  at your frown'. I am afraid that to some extent  Mr Speaker  has exhibited that kind of attitude to the Prime Minister. It is very important that this should not be allowed to continue, and particularly important in the circumstances of the present Government's control of this House. 
When the present Opposition is in control of the House there is some freedom. We do not have the ironclad laws that the Labor Party has. Unlike the Labor Party, we are not subject entirely to outside control. Under those circumstances in which the Government is the puppet of outside bodies, where the Government by its own admission and by the Prime Minister's admission in this House is the servant of outside bodies and does what outside bodies command it to do, it is particularly important that the  Speaker  should not be the puppet of the Prime Minister. It is particularly important that the Prime Minister should not have the power to break with impunity the Standing Orders and rules of this House and have for that purpose a kind of hold over the  Speaker. 
At this early stage in the life of this Parliament it is a matter of quite major consequence that the relationship of the  Speaker  to the House should be made clear. The  Speaker  represents us all. The Chair must be impartial. The Chair should call the Prime Minister to order in the same way that it calls to order any other member. It should not allow the Prime Minister to get away with consistent abuse of the forms of this House. The Chair should have applied standing order 77 to the Prime Minister and should have demanded that the Prime Minister withdraw the unparliamentary things he has said. I will not go through the whole list of them because they are to be found in Hansard. 
I heard the Prime Minister say in this House that for the first time we have a Prime Minister who is both courteous and truthful. It is a reflection on previous Prime Ministers and should not have been allowed. Truthful? Let the people judge that. Courteous? Have honourable members noticed the cutting and almost bitchy approach of the Prime Minister? Of course, this man who is now Prime 
Minister is the one who was so courteous in 1965. Honourable members will recall the incident. In a debate in this House  Mr Hasluck,  as he then was, was sitting at the table. 
 I support this Housing Assistance Bill. I recognise the difficulties with which the Minister for Housing  (Mr Les Johnson)  is faced. There is pressure on the housing industry as a whole and in many parts of Australia but not throughout Australia there is a shortage of houses for rental. The number of houses to be provided under this Bill is comparatively small. 1 believe that the Minister referred to 1,500 bourses but I think, as another honourable member pointed out earlier in this debate, that that is an exaggeration. The amount of money provided is unlikely to allow the construction or purchase of more than 500 or 600 houses of a reasonable standard. That is a small number in comparison with the number of units being approved for building from time to time. I think that building approvals are running at the rate of about 175,000 a year. That assessment is based on the figures for last month but it may not be as much as that when the whole period of 12 months is taken into account. 
Homes for rental were provided by the last Government to an extent not always realised. The most important way in which that was accomplished was through the Aged Persons Homes Act. Under that legislation the Government, by paying a subsidy of $2 to Si, has been providing 4,000 or 5,000 houses a year, which probably is 10 times as many as will be provided under this Bill. Admittedly some of those homes do not provide independent accommodation but they substitute for a house, and what the previous Government did in this respect needs to be kept in mind. 
Accommodation for rental is needed. 1 admit it and assert it but I think that the past Government did a great deal in this respect. The program which we initiated last year and which I hope will be carried to completion by the present Government was a crash program for hostel type accommodation and this will meet a large part of this need. I hope and believe that the present Government will continue with the very excellent scheme which we of the previous Government initiated. 1 think that in a way it is a good thing that this Bill relates only to a small scheme. I do not know how much is to follow but I hope something, though not too much, will follow. It is not quite safe to have this kind of thing in the hands of the Labor Party although I admit that there is some need for it at the present time and I commend what has been done on this small scale. We all remember the attitude of the Labor Party towards this matter. It was expressed most succinctly by  Mr Dedman  when he was a Minister. He said on behalf of the Labor Party that we do not want people in Australia to own their own homes because that would only make them little capitalists. That is not the attitude of the Liberal Party. We believe that people should be encouraged to own their own homes. 
While there is a need for a certain number of rental homes and while I think that this is a good Bill which I hope will be followed by other Bills in a similar vein, though not too many, we have to be on our guard against the development of the Labor Party ideology which, say what they like, at the present moment definitely is opposed to people owning their own homes because that makes them too much a part of the structure of society which the Labor Party is trying to break down. 1 qualify all these remarks by saying that there is in Australia at present a need for more rental housing and that is why we on this side of the House can support this Bill. But perhaps we should be exploring some alternatives for the future. For instance, in the United States of America the whole housing situation has been made more liquid so that people can buy and sell houses very much more readily than they can in Australia. To some extent this is a substitute for rental housing because people do not want always to be tied to the one spot. It may be that they need to change their employment. It may be that they need to go to some other place. With all these things it is a case of adopting a reasonable approach and not a doctrinaire approach. It has to be an approach which is to some extent flexible and which tries to fit the policy to the needs of the situation. 
I think the Minister for Housing will agree with me that there is a need for more rental houses in Australia, particularly in certain localities where there is a housing shortage. Also we must recognise that in Australia, thanks to the policy of the previous Government, at present we do not have an overall housing shortage although we do have a shortage of low cost housing. This is particularly true in respect of young married couples. Young married couples who have been accustomed perhaps to 2 incomes in the family find that this state of affairs will not or at any rate should not continue following the birth of the first child. For these young married couples we need to be doing a lot more than we are. I hope very shortly to introduce into this House a Bill aimed at this problem of helping the young married couples particularly in respect of housing difficulties which they must face on the birth of the first child which prevents the continuance of the earning of 2 incomes in the family. 
This is one of the most important social problems which we have to face. The problems of old age and invalidity have been very largely, but not entirely, overcome by the measures that we have taken. However, rising on the priority list now is surely the need to do more for the young married couples at the lower end of the income scale. People who are young tend to be at the lower end of the income scale for obvious reasons. The financial difficulties that these couples face are not entirely concerned with housing but most of their financial difficulties are centred on their housing problems and would be amenable to solution if their housing problems could be more readily solved. It is for this purpose that I am hoping in the course of the next few weeks to introduce a Bill into this House. I hope that a measure like the one I shall put forward - one of progressive social outlook - will commend itself to the Government. I hope that the Government will not look on it purely as something with which it can score political points but instead as something that it can support because this problem faced by young married couples of financing their house in difficult circumstances which can be aggravated by the birth of the first child is one which the Australian people as a whole have to face. It is one of the biggest social problems still remaining before us. 
I think that many people in Australia have been shocked at the left wing drift of this Government. At the last election they did not know what they were voting for because this was not put in the policy speech of the new Government and was not made explicit to the people. The people perhaps should have known because they should have realised the inherent truth of the admission of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  which was made in this HOuse on 28 February that he took his instructions on policy from an outside body and carried out those instructions. That outside body is a left wing body and in it the communist influence is very evident. The contents of the official platform of the Australian Labor Party to which the Prime Minister acknowledges himself subservient are in a way a blueprint for a socialist Australia. I believe that honourable members opposite - perhaps not individually but carrying out as a body the instructions which they are bound and pledged to carry out - will be trying with every means in their power to make Australia a fully socialist state and will stop at nothing in order to do that. 
Honourable members opposite, it is said, are held back by the views of the electorate. It has been said that if they do this they will not be re-elected. There is some truth in this but the only truth, really, is that if there is a fair election they will not be re-elected. There will not be a fair election if at any time they can control the Senate because only the Senate stands between us and the imposition of a completely unfair electoral system. If the Government can only get through the Senate the electoral changes it wishes, Australia will never have a free vote again. It all depends on the Senate. 
Indeed, it goes further than that because the interpretation of the law depends upon a High Court which is and should remain incorruptible. The High Court consists of 7 judges. That is set down not by the Constitution - section 71 of the Constitution permits an unlimited number of judges in the High Court - but by section 4 of the Judiciary Act. 
That limitation to 7 cannot be changed without the approval of the Senate. But if the Senate were ever under Labor control, the Government could swamp the High Court and make this presently incorruptible court a vehicle for corrupt Labor policy. This Government will go to any lengths if it has the power. Only the Senate stands between Australia and what would be almost a proletarian dictatorship. I know that many honourable members opposite do not want this but they are pledged to bring it into existence because, one and all, by their own words, they are the subservient creatures of an outside body - their Federal Executive and Conference which controls them in regard to policy. 
How safe is the Senate? It would not be safe if the ALP ever had that vital 31 votes out of the present 60 senators. At present, as honourable members know, the composition of the Senate is 26 Government senators, 26 Opposition senators, 5 Democratic Labor Party senators and 3 Independents. The Government does not have in the Senate the vital 31 votes which it needs for its revolutionary changes. I do not believe that all honourable members opposite intend to make these changes. I know that many honourable members opposite are entirely honest and wellintentioned. It is not what they intend themselves but what they would be instructed to do by the outside body which controls them. 
How could the present situation as to the party strengths in the Senate be changed? It could be changed, of course, by legislation. Proposals have already been made to change the representation of the Australian Capital Territory in the Senate. These proposals may be innocuous - I do not know - but, at all events, they could not become law without the concurrence of the Senate. Once again, the Senate is the vital safeguard. The party strength situation in the Senate could be changed by casual vacancies. None of us can determine what casual vacancies may occur. It could be changed by a double dissolution, but that could not occur unless the Senate behaved in a certain way and the Government chose to accept the challenge and, even then, the Senate might come back divided evenly. I think it most likely would come back divided 30-30 and the Labor Party would not have the vital 31 votes which it needs for revolution. 
Yes, for revolution, not because honourable members opposite are revolutionary individually, although some of them may be, but because they are being directed by a revolutionary body outside this Parliament. What about the more likely eventuality? What is going to happen at the next Senate election which will occur sometime between now and June 1974, the date not yet being fixed? Let us examine what is going to happen at that election. The survivors in the Senate, that is the senators who have the long terms and remain in office after 30th June 1974, add up as follows: Fourteen Australian Labor Party senators, 12 senators from the Opposition, 2 senators from the Democratic Labor Party and 2 independent senators. If from the 31 seats which will be vital to the ALP for control of the Senate you subtract the 14 seats already held by the Australian Labor Party 17 seats will remain. If the Australian Labor Party is to control the Senate after the next Senate election it thus needs to Win 17 seats, which means  it must win  in 5 of the 6 States. This is scarcely on. Subject to the chances of casual vacancies occurring one would say that the position would be safe, even after the next Senate election. 
Now casual vacancies can occur in two ways - either through the death or resignation of a senator or through the engineered resignation of a senator. It could be vital if the Labor Party could engineer, before the next Senate election, a casual vacancy for a long term non-Labor senator for either Queensland or Western Australia, which are the 2 vital States because these are the States where with 5 vacancies the split would be likely to be 3 to 2 against Labor, but with 6 vacancies the split would be likely to be 3 all. I do not know what will happen but I am ready to bet that the Labor Party will be making desperate efforts to engineer casual vacancies among the long term non-Labor Party senators for those 2 States. 
I would be the last person to want to be unfair to the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly).  I think we should acknowledge that under his leadership of the House there have been some improvements. I think we would all want to put that on record. I would not want to be unfair to him in the slightest, but I feel that this motion is not in itself so much ill conceived as it is evidence of a well conceived plan. We are to be asked in these last few weeks to pass important and controversial measures. I know that a lot of unimportant measures have been put through. More time should be available for debate on the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill and more time should be available to debate prices justification, off-shore minerals and statements which have been made in this House by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and noted for debate and about which there are many controversial aspects. Apparently we will not be given an opportunity to debate them. 
Much more importantly than that, the whole of our foreign policy is being changed, and there has not been a major debate in this House on foreign policy. It looks as though, under the truncated program, there will not be one. Many honourable members would have liked to have said something about the Government's nuclear adventures with France and the lack of its nuclear adventures with Communist China. We would have liked to have had a chance to discuss these things in detail as they are really important. What is more important is the drift of our foreign policy to the left and the way in which Australia has been made to change sides in the world scene. This was not put forward during the election campaign. People had no idea that they were voting on this. This is one of the most important things that has happened in Australia's history. 
Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I am simply trying to list the more important things which we will not have the chance to debate under the Minister's proposal. 1 gratefully acknowledge the fact that in some respects the procedures in this House have been improved but surely, in place of the gag and the putting through in the last stages of important measures inadequately discussed, we should be prepared to sit for a longer time, that is, to sit for an extra week or two. Let us have time to discuss these important matters. 
I put this to the Minister. I know that it is very difficult for him to say anything in this House which has not been vetted and approved outside this House. I do not expect the Minister to be able to give his own honest opinion. Of course not. I do not expect him to say what he thinks frankly or to make a decision of his own will. Decisions are made outside. He sits there at the table looking benevolent. He sits there looking like the aging Faust in the first act waiting for somebody to give him the right kind of drink, and then he will do to democracy what Faust did to Marguerite. 
I thought it might be advisable to draw the attention of the House once more to the change in the standards of conduct - perhaps not so much conduct as the standards of estimation of conduct - on the part of the Government. I refer particularly to what has happened in regard to the approach that the Government has adopted on the left wing and the communist issue. Not very long ago it was considered a libel and unparliamentary to say that a supporter of the Government was associating with the Communist Party, had communist sympathies and was an adherent to the communist cause. Such a remark was judged to be unparliamentary and had to be withdrawn. But today this is no longer so because supporters of the Government, including Ministers, are openly associating with communist causes and making the communist cause their own. Consider the way in which the Minister for Overseas Trade and Minister for Secondary Industry  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  has been cohabiting with the North Vietnamese, bringing the Vietnamese murderers - the Vietcong - into this House, and making their cause his own. He has been associating the Government with communists. Under these circumstances it is no longer unparliamentary to say of a supporter of the Government that he is an associate of communists; that he runs with the communists; that he does what the communists want him to do; that he is a propagandist for the communists. This can no longer be considered in any way to be unparliamentary. The points of reference - the axes of reference - have been changed because the Government has moved in this direction. Of course there are more substantia/ examples even than those. Consider the way in which the major matters of international concern have been covered up by the exacerbation of matters which are of minor concern. For example, there is a tremendous pother about the French nuclear tests. That is well and good, but why is there no pother about the Chinese nuclear  tests?  lt has been said that the Communist Chinese are not really parties to the Nuclear NonProliferation Treaty and they cannot be brought before the International Court of Justice, which they have not acknowledged. So we must do this to France. If this is so, why are we not threatening to do to Communist China what the Government is threatening to do to France, namely, to break off diplomatic relations unless it comes to the party? It is extraordinary that when the Chinese are doing these things the Government is falling head over heels to establish diplomatic relations with them, but when France is doing them we threaten to break off diplomatic relations with that country. Is not this ridiculous? I am one of the people who take these nuclear tests very seriously, not because I believe that the radiation damage is important - it is not - but what is important is the proliferation of nuclear weapons. I think that this is the main problem confronting the world today. In comparison with it, everything else sinks to minor proportions. 
I can see that there is a reason - not the given reason but a real reason - why we should be sensitive on this matter. If this is so, why should we be sensitive against Prance, our ally, and not sensitive against Communist China which, diplomatic ties or not, proclaims itself to be our enemy? We have this double standard all the time. I remember not very many months ago when the Government was still the Opposition that the then Leader of the Opposition, now the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  was out in front of Parliament House with Vietcong flags in the assembly and supporting that assembly which was under Vietcong patronage. I know this because I saw it myself with my own eyes. When this matter was brought up in the House a great storm was raised by the honourable members of the then Opposition, the members on the Government side today. They said now terrible it was that any such accusation could be brought against their noble Leader of the Opposition, now the Prime Minister, How indignant they were. Do honourable members remember? Today Ministers from the same Party are officially appearing under Vietcong flags and before the portrait of the infamous Ho Chi Minh. And it is not so terrible, is it? This is a measure of the way in which our standards have changed. It is a very terrible thing that this is happening and nobody is taking very much notice of it. Surely it is our business in this House to try to give some leadership to the Australian people. 
It is that kind of remark which portrays the attitude of the Government. The Government is looking at the matter only from the political point of view. It wants to defend itself against the revelation of the infiltration of communists and communist influences into its own ranks. I suggest to the House, even at this late hour at night, that we should be turning our attention to these things. These are the main things in Australian politics. The main thing in Australian Politcis is the way in which this small revolutionary faction has infiltrated itself into the Labor movement. It has infiltrated itself into the Labor movement because the Labor movement admits itself to be under the control of bodies outside this House, and in those outside bodies the communists are very powerful. 
I heard somebody say: What rot!' Let me put it on the line. Before the last elections the present Prime Minister went and cringed to a communist mob in one of the trade unions in order to get money. That is officially on the record, and I have here the official transcript of the way the Prime Minister cringed and crawled to the communists on that occasion. 
It was the metal trades. People like Halfpenny and Carmichael were there. They were the men to whom the Prime Minister kowtowed, and then it was only to get money. That was a small thing. 
Today he is talking about something much more important than money. He is talking about power, because unhappily the Prime Minister has power and the Prime Minister will be- 
I think honourable members will appreciate that the measure before the House is in a sense incoherent because it reflects the divided personality and purposes of the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron).  From his own personal experiences the Minister has come to hate his own union and to be in opposition to it. Yet as a member of the Australian Labor Party he is perennially dedicated to the proposition that the unions are above the law and that the unions should make the law. Because he has these divided purposes the present measure is in a sense incoherent. On the one hand the power of shop stewards is to be exalted and this will make for disruption in a sense directed against the central powers of their own unions. On the other hand, the unions as a whole are to be put above the law and are to be made free of any responsibility for what they do. This division of purposes probably illustrates the influences of people in the unions who are out not to help the members of their own unions but to cause disruption as a settled policy. We have heard of the law of the jungle but this is the first occasion on which I can recall the Parliament being asked to license tigers. 
The unions under our present system, and even more so under the proposals before us, have become law making bodies. In a sense, as I have said, they are law making because they are above the law. Too often a union is able to impose a sanction on its own members. The impression has gained currency too often in the community that union law is in some way superior to the law of the Australian nation. This is one of the most dangerous delusions that we could possibly entertain. 
A proper Bill should have 2 purposes. The first purpose should be to protect individual members of trade unions against terror and victimisation by some kind of kangaroo court in their own unions. Any parliament should have the desire to protect members of trade unions against that kind of tyranny and abuse. The second purpose - and some people would think it a greater purpose - should be to preserve industrial peace in the community. I believe that many trade unionists have now become thoroughly sick of being called out on senseless strikes over trivial matters and have become even more disgusted at being called out on strikes which are not senseless but are evil in regard to political rather than industrial matters with which they have little concern. In point of fact, they may disapprove of the announced political actions of their own unions. I believe that we have to try to protect not only the whole community but also members of trade unions against that kind of abuse of power. If we are seeking a rise in living standards in the community - and surely we all want that and surely we all want to pay the highest possible wages consonant with avoiding inflation - that can come about only through increasing productivity. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Berinson)Order! The time allotted for the second reading stage has expired. 
Question put: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I move: 
At end of clause 5 add the following paragraph: (h) Notwithstanding anything else contained in this Act, all courts, commissions and tribunals set up under this Act shall have regard to any obligations undertaken by the Commonwealth under any convention of the International Labour Organisation which has been approved by, the Parliament or is otherwise binding on the Commonwealth and shall make no order, ruling, award or decision which would involve a violation of any such obligation. 
I believe that this amendment will commend itself to the Government. 
I thank the Minister for Labour for his assurances. 1 believe that he is wrong in bis interpretation of the law. But whether he is right or wrong, there is no objection to putting in the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act a clause like the one I have referred to. lt does not affect our obligations under the conventions. It simply says - and it should declare - that we intend to keep those obligations, whatever they are. The questions of law that the Minister raised - and 1 believe that he was egregiously wrong - are ones which no doubt will come before the High Court of Australia in due course. Whether or not that happens, surely the Government does not object to the insertion in the Act of its own intention, which the Minister for Labour has now declared, to act in good faith. We have had in this and in other matters evidence that the Government does not always act in good faith and that Ministers' assurances given in this chamber and elsewhere cannot always be trusted. If the Minister believes that what he says is correct, why does he object to putting into the Act the simple pledge that the Government will do what it has pledged itself to do? The question as to what that is is a matter which is left undetermined. The courts may look at that in the future. But what is the objection,  Mr Minister,  to putting into the Act - and it can validly be put in in spite of what you say - the pledge that you gave verbally at the table a moment ago and which unfortunately is not legally binding? If you believe your own words make them legally binding now. 
Is the Prime Minister aware that many people in Australia who are already dismayed by the left wing trend in this Government would be appalled if the Acting Prime Minister of Australia were at any time an open adherent of the communist cause, especially in the international context? What precautions does he intend to take to see that this eventuality does not occur? 
I seek leave to have incorporated in Hansard a document setting out the wording of amendments to clause SO and clause 55. 
CHAIRMAN - Order! Is leave granted? There being no objection leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - Clause SO after the end of paragraph (d) add new paragraph (da): shall provide that where a person who is or who has been a scrutineer at any election makes an application to the Industrial Registrar under the provisions of section 159 of this Act in connection with such election, then the organisation and every officer of the organisation shall be obliged to make available to the Industrial Registrar all relevant documents and information  within their possession or control.' 
Clause 55, sub-section 5, after the end of paragraph (b) add new paragraph (c): prejudice to the employment or employment prospects or future employment prospects of a person'. 
Now that the Minister for Labour has cleared his conscience of guilt in the natter to which my friend the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  has so graciously referred, may I ask the Minister's indulgence to give consideration to an amendment which I wish to move now and which I believe will be in accordance with his own wishes. 
1 beg your pardon,  Sir. 
Amendment agreed to. 
I would like to move an amendment which I hope would commend itself to the Minister for Labour who, when speaking to clause SO, said that he was trying to ensure fairer elections. 1 move: 
In proposed new sub-section (1) of section 133, after the end of paragraph (d) add new paragraph (da): 'shall provide that where a person who is or who has been a scrutineer at any election makes an application to the Industrial Registrar under the provisions of section 159 of this Act in connection with such election, then the organisation and every officer of the organisation shall be obliged to make available to the Industrial Registrar all relevant documents and information within their possession or control'. 
I am sure that if the Minister really wants fair elections in unions this provision will commend itself to him. I hope that he will see fit to adopt it. All he will be doing will be to say: If a scrutineer at an election thinks that there has been any misdemeanour in regard to that election, and if he makes as he can under the Act an official complaint to the Industrial Registrar, the rules of the union shall provide, that all information and documents within the control of the union and every one of its officers shall be made available to the Industrial Registrar for examination. We ask for a fair go - that is all. 
I must thank the Minister for his urbane approach to this matter, but when he has been in Parliament a little longer he will realise that a Bill does not become law until it has been passed by the Senate, and he will have ample time between now and when the Bill is before the Senate to address his mind to this amendment. If after examining the amendment the Minister comes to the conclusion that it contains a worthy suggestion, as I believe it does, no doubt he will be cooperative in seeing that the necessary amendment is moved when the Bill is before the Senate. There is ample time; when the Minister has had more experience he will realise this. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 51 to 55  -  by leave - taken together. 

 - Mr Speaker, I move: 
That so much of the procedures and Standing Orders of the House be now suspended  as  would authorise the transmission of the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill to the Senate for its concurrence until it has been recomitted in accordance with standing order 236. 
I have moved this motion because of the completely disgraceful way in which this Bill has been railroaded through this House. We have not had a chance to speak on it in Committee. In all the time I have been in this House I have never seen a government guilty of this kind of disgraceful performance and what the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly),  who is now at the table, refers to as 'the brutal use of numbers'. I know that in the past a guillotine has been used but a guillotine has never been used in any situation even remotely resembling this one. 
Only this morning, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  was reported as stating that he regarded this as a vital Bill. He said he regarded it as a Bill in relation to which there might even be a double dissolution if the Senate did not do exactly as the Government wanted it to do. Nobody could pretend that this was a trivial Bill and yet only a few hours have been devoted to its consideration in Committee. 
This is not only one of the most important Bills to come before the House; it is also one of the most complicated. There are some 70 clauses in the Bill, many of which are long, many of which are of a technical nature and many of which refer to amendments to the main Act. It is almost impossible to follow the nature of those amendments without a great deal of consideration. One would have thought that a government which meant to deal fairly with the people and which boasted of open government, as this Government does boast of open government, would, in its arrangements of the business of the House, have given the House an opportunity to examine the clauses of this Bill in some detail. But -I say this with a great deal of regret - this was not done. 
We have had the most perfunctory opportunity to look at this Bill in any detail. Amendments have been moved by this side and they have not been debated. Indeed, for our protection we had to take the precaution of putting these amendments in the Hansard record because it was obvious that, in the time allotted for debate, we would not have been able to debate them. This is something of which 1 believe the Government should be properly ashamed. 
But an even more important aspect is involved. The Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  spoke at length during the Committee stage on the general principles and philosophy behind this Bill. Members on this side of the House would agree with some of the things he said. But many of the things the Minister said would cause great disagreement. I think that everybody on this side of the House would assert that workers in the community have a right to withdraw their labour. 
As one of my honourable and learned friends reminds me, I am trying to give a brief illustration of the kind of thing which should have been debated and which could not be debated because the time to do so was not allowed. I think it was very wrong that when the Minister for Labour went to great lengths to explain the Government's philosophy behind the introduction of this Bill, no adequate opportunity was given to members on this side to reply. I give the illustration of the kind of thing the Minister was saying. I wanted to make it clear that I did not disagree with everything that the Minister said, but there were some things he said with which I and, I think, most honourable members on this side, would find themselves in grave disagreement. We have not been given any opportunity to express our disagreement or to put before the House the reasons why we believe that certain clauses of the Bill require drastic and substantial amendment. Clauses 55 to 71  -  the last clause in the Bill - were put forward in one packet and not one word in debate was spoken on them. This is a travesty of the procedures of this House. 1 can recall that when previous guillotines were brought down, the Government of the day allotted time for, say, clauses 1 to 10, clauses 10 to 20 and so on. But to bring down a blanket of this character and say that the entire Committee stage of the Bill has to be concluded by 3.15 p.m. appears to me to be a complete denial of the rights of this House and a contempt for this House. Under the Standing Orders, there are procedures -  Mr Speaker,  thanks to your ruling I am now availing myself of one of them - under which we have the right to make some protest. As you said a moment ago,  Mr Speaker,  it is not within my power now to debate the substance of the matter. There is plenty of substance which I would want to debate. There are things in this Bill which I believe should be brought to the light of day and should receive the widest public scrutiny. There are things in this Bill which I believe, if the House understood them - even members on the other side - it would be inclined to reject. This is made the more true by the fact that we know that the Minister for Labour himself has changed his mind and recanted several times on these very crucial matters. It is a matter of concern not only to members on this side of the House but also to the country, that when the Minister recanted from his original proposition and when he left the ground he had in common with members of the Opposition and introduced this Bill against his own previously expressed convictions, be did so in line with what the left wing and the communists wanted. 
I do not regard this Bill as in any way an industrial conciliation Bill. It is not a conciliation and arbitration Bill. This is a Bill which will cause industrial disruption. I do not accuse the Minister of doing this deliberately. I do not think he really wanted to do it because he has done in this Bill what, in his earlier capacity, he said he would not do. But the point is that his deviation from his previous stand has been all to the left. This is another example of the way in which the forces of the Left are able to sway this Government and determine its policy. I believe that when the House comes to consider this matter more soberly it will agree with me. I believe that even honourable members opposite, or many of them, are ashamed of the way in which the Minister has veered to the left in this Bill. He has brought in a Bill which, as I said, is contrary to so many of his previously expressed ideas and which at the same time veers always in the direction that the left wing or - to use the word which is the appropriate word - the communists, who control so many of the trade unions, want him to go. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I want to associate myself very sincerely with the remarks of the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  and I hope that even at this late stage the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  may be a little inclined to reconsider his position. 
Sitting suspended from 6.15 to 8 p.m. 
I speak briefly but very strongly in support of the 2 principles in the amendment moved by the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair).  Those 2 principles relate, firstly, to the renunciation of other allegiance by the new citizen, and, secondly, to the inclusion of the name of the Queen in the oath of allegiance which he has to take. I will deal with those 2 points. Firstly, I believe that there is merit in a positive renunciation. 
I remember in days gone by that this ceremony was rather different. The new citizen was then called upon to renounce his old allegiance and then to stand stateless for a moment until he was accepted as a citizen. I felt that this was unnecessarily dramatic and might have been an occasion of tension. So we altered it to the one sentence: 'I, renouncing all other allegiance, do now swear . . . ' and so on. The renunciation is important because Australia does not relish this concept of dual citizenship. 
The Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  said that renunciation had no legal effect. This may or may not be true because its legal effect may depend upon the laws of other countries which are not made in this Parliament and which could be changed by other countries. No doubt in our negotiations with other countries to remove the concept, and sometimes the burden, of dual citizenship from those who take Australian nationality we will be putting this point and I hope that in the negotiations the Minister, who should have learned a lesson from the tragic events in Yugoslavia, will put this point strongly and it will help him in those negotiations if he can say that Australian citizens have personally renounced. This is important because some people regard their dual nationality as an advantage, and some regard it as a burden. We have to distinguish between them. But how can we distinguish between the individuals unless they have made their act of renunciation? Otherwise their country of origin, whose law we do not make here, could say in regard to any individual: 'What evidence have you that he meant to renounce?' 
I agree with the Minister's statement that we should be endeavouring to get rid of this burden of dual citizenship for those Australian citizens who do not wish to maintain it, and to include in the form of the ceremony the formal renunciation may strengthen his hand in any negotiations. Again I say to him: Considering what has happened in respect not only of the humiliation that Australian citizens have undergone but also at their death in their countries of origin, anything that strengthens our hand in negotiation is worth having. I hope that the Government will be firm on matters like this in negotiations with Yugoslavia. Let us adopt the suggestion of the honourable member for New England and help the Government do what it should be doing. 
My second point concerns whether the Queen's name should be included in the declaration of allegiance. I know how the new citizens in my own electorate very often treasure the portrait of the Queen which is given to them, and how they are grateful for the fact that as Australians they are included in a Commonwealth of Nations which still has some meaning. I say with some regret that the Government in the few short months that it has been in office seems to be deliberately trying to break down the links between Australia and Great Britain. This is not a question of maintaining Australian nationality. I am a nationalistic Australian in this sense, as I believe are all honourable members on this side of the House. But it may be to Australia's advantage in the future to maintain these links. In war in 1914 and again in 1939 we put our force behind what was Great Britain's quarrel, but it was a just quarrel. We have paid. Surely having paid, we do not want to forego a possible repayment. It may sound dramatic but I put it forward as something which is very serious. 
In this corner of the globe we could be isolated. We are surrounded by countries with which we hope to be friendly but on whose friendship we cannot entirely rely. It may be in the interests of Australia's survival not to forgo our own concept of nationality but to maintain the links which will give us defence protection, evidence of which in the eyes of the world may protect us from attack, because these outward signs may give to countries which might have aggressive intentions against us the lively apprehension that we would have powerful friends, powerful kinsmen, to come to our aid. Let me say finally and in a single sentence something very simple. If one has defences one can do without powerful friends; if one has powerful friends one may well be able to do without defences. But one cannot do without both. I do not believe that even in a small matter like this - it is a symbolic matter and perhaps many people would say it is not small - our policy should be directed to the real security of the Australian nation in circumstances which may not be entirely safe or entirely secure. I ask the Minister even at this late stage to consider the merits of the amendment which have been put forward by the honourable member for New England, and either accept it now or give an assurance that in the Senate it will be given some consideration  by the Government. 
I was glad to hear the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  raise the question of religious persecution because very serious religious persecution is occurring in the world. Now that an Australian delegation has gone to Communist China perhaps we could ask the members of that delegation to look at what happened in Tibet where religious persecution was accompanied by wholesale genocide, where the Dalai Lama, the religious leader of the country, is in exile and where that country is still being closed by its Chinese overlords to any visit by observers from democratic nations. I hope that the fine sentiments expressed by the honourable member in regard to an African country will find more coherent and cogent expression in regard to Communist China. Now that an Australian delegation is to visit that country, surely we can ask members of the delegation - 1 am sure that the honourable member for Hunter will be writing to his friends in that delegation; the air mail is available to him - to make inquiries about religious persecution in Communist China and particularly religious persecution of the Tibetan people. 
I would like to raise a matter which deals with the same kind of subject; although it is more on the economics side it is more related to Australia. 1 see in today's Press that the Chinese communists are putting up the prices of their exports. In a way this is perhaps a good thing because it will mean that the products of sweated labour will not have the same capacity to throw Australian workers out of their jobs and ruin Australian industry. On the other hand, when wages are low and the extra super profits are being used, the workers are being exploited by the Chinese state. When wages are low, as a consequence one of 2 things must be true. Either products of sweated labour will be dumped here and elsewhere throughout the world at cheap prices or e'se the Chinese state, exploiting its own workers as so many communist states do - this is a matter of express and general communist policy - will be taking what I think Lenin called super profits from these unhappy factors of production. 
The Australian delegation to China will be led by the trusted friend of everybody in this House - the Minister for Overseas Trade and Minister for Secondary Industry  (Dr J. F. Cairns).  He is particularly concerned with these economic matters and this is one of the prime things at which he should be looking. I feel that we should be asking him and his delegation specifically to bring us back a factual report about communist Chinese wages. How much is paid to the people who are making the articles which we are to import from Communist China? What is their wage level? I am not suggesting that we should get from him anything more than a factual report. When we have an economic delegation going to Communist China, surely the most important thing that it should bring back to us is the facts. 
Surely the most important fact which every Australian worker will want to know from the delegation is what is the Communist Chinese wage level, because the products made by cheap sweated labour are in competition with him, his products and his wage level. What is being paid to these people who are making goods which will be imported into Australia? Are they being exploited? Should we be living on the products of sweated labour, or if the goods are to be increased in price - apparently, if the newspaper report is to be trusted, the Communist Chinese State now proposes to make J 00 per cent superprofit out of the sweated labour of its workers - surely we should know something about it. 
I put this up to the Government. The Government says it represents the Australian workers. Therefore., the Government should be specifically interested in those things which might tend to depress, through its cheap imports, the standard of living of the Australian working man. I put this suggestion to the Government constructively. I ask the Government now to send instructions to the economic delegation that we now have in Communist China to find out what the wage levels are and to bring back a factual report. Do not let us try to prejudge the issue. Let us just see what the wages are and get a factual report. When we have the facts we can consider what policy we should undertake in regard to them. I believe that in the past it has been difficult to find out what has been going on in Communist China, which does not have quite an open Government, if I may use that phrase. But now that we. have a delegation going there, this information is something from which we can learn and which the Chinese can give us. 1 know the Government will feel that this is something that should be done. I make the suggestion to the Government now. However, I ask honourable members opposite whether they would prefer me, perhaps next week, to move a motion in the House so this could come as an instruction to the delegation from this whole House and not just from the Government. The Government might well feel embarrassed in relation to its new Chinese communist friends if it had to take on its own single initiative something like this. But the Government's position perhaps would be stronger if it had an instruction from this House. So I ask the Government which course it would prefer. Would it prefer now to send its own governmental instructions to the deputation or would it prefer to have the House debate this matter next week so that the House could give the Government instructions to see that the requisite factual information was obtained, brought back to Australia and made available to us in our consideration of policy? 
Like the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch),  I shall be brief in my remarks. I shall be brief mainly because time is wanted for the discussion of the politically important Bills which have been introduced into this House at the last moment, although I do not think that this Bill is of itself unimportant. I was glad that the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  spoke in general terms in the introductory part of his speech because it is the general picture rather than the details that I think should be brought to the attention of this House. I support the concept of the International Labour Organisation, but I think that the Government should be made aware of the obligations it has undertaken in respect to the ILO and realise that it may be rushing in and inadvisedly taking snap decisions the implications of which are not always apparent. 
That was most evident in the debate on the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill in this House recently. It was pointed out during that debate that the Government had ratified conventions 87 and 98 and that they were binding on Australia. I am perfectly well aware of the constitutional position. The treaty making powers of the Government were discussed long ago in the Goya Henry case. Although there is some doubt about the ambit of those powers it is quite apparent that they extend to regulating the terms of any Act which this Parliament may validly make. I say that because I must at this stage recall to the attention of the House the debate which is reported at page 1810 of Hansard of 8th May this year. I regret to say that the Minister, in speaking of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, displayed a lamentable ignorance of constitutional and legal principles. He said something in this House which was wrong and showed that he did not understand the situation. He said:   . . there is no constitutional power to write into the Conciliation and Arbitration Act any international obligations under conventions of the International Labour Organisation. 
This is wrong in law and only an inexperienced and ignorant Minister could have said something along those lines. I am afraid that we have to admit now that we have a new Minister who does not always understand the implications of what he is doing. In respect of Australia he has undertaken an obligation which is binding in law insofar as it applies to any Act which this Commonwealth Parliament itself may validly make. 1 am, as I have said, well aware of the implications of the Goya Henry case and subsequent cases which have followed from it, in regard to the limitations of the Commonwealth Government's treaty-making power. But it is surely obvious that the treaty-making power extends to any matter in which the Commonwealth Government may itself validly pass a law. Therefore, the obligations which we have undertaken under Convention 87 of the ILO - obligations which may go to the very root of our whole industrial arbitration system - are obligations which, whether the Minister likes it or not by reason of the thing which he has inadvisedly and lightly done, are already binding on the Commonwealth. He has undertaken obligations on behalf of Australia which he will find very difficult to carry out. Those obligations are already legally binding. He has signed Australia's name to those obligations. I think there will follow from this consequences which he may not like and which he did not intend, but the legal commitment has already been made. I should like the Minister to rethink for a moment what the position is in international law. 
There Is only one other observation I should like to make. In general, the conventions of the ILO are directed towards the wage level and the conditions of employment level which are part of the wage structure. They are quite rightly directed towards such things as freedom of association, safety, hours of work, conditions of work and things of this character because the members of that Organisation desire, one against the other, to be protected against the consequences of sweated labour. In the past it may be that these things were not of such immediate application because the countries where wages were low were also the countries where there were very few technological advances and so the low wages were counterbalanced by industrial inefficiency. This is no longer true. For example, in countries such as Communist China, there are industries which technologically are just as efficient as any industry in Australia or the United States of America, perhaps not overall, but in the smaller areas where these industries - for example, the textile industry - apply principles which they have imported from overseas. 
In those industries, because of the lower wages and the sweated employees - the people who are being exploited and victimised by their totalitarian states because they have no real freedom of association - the products can be produced at minimal cost. When those products are exported and come into competition with goods made in Australia, one of two things must happen: Either the goods will be sold at low rates and therefore the product of cheap labour with efficient machinery will be at unfair competition with the goods produced in Australia or, alternatively, their prices will be raised. In that case we will be condoning the sweating and exploitation of Chinese labour by the Chinese communist state. Surely this is something which we would not want to happen. This is the kind of thing for which the ILO was founded and one would hope that Australia's representatives in the ILO, and elsewhere, would be vigilant to see that this kind of thing does not occur. 
At the moment, for example, we have a delegation in Communist China looking at its industries. I put it to the Government that the first thing it should be asking that delegation to do is to look at the wage level in these competing industries where industrial efficiency occurs to see how it compares with the Australian wage level. I speak not only of money wages but also of the conditions that go with them, the way in which work is organised, the industrial limitations of work, the hours of work and the conditions that go with employment. The delegation should look at the whole of the wage structure in its total context. If it turns out that there is sweated labour, by Australian standards, in these industries where there is imported from overseas the technological efficiency of our industries, we should take steps to see that the products of such industries are not imported into Australia because either we should protect the Australian workmen or, alternatively, if we have any international obligations at all, they include the international obligation to assist in protecting the Chinese worker against exploitation by his own state machine. 
In Australia and in other countries such as the United Kingdom or the United States of America, there is freedom to organise, freedom to come together and freedom of discussion. All these things are good and we want them because they are part of our society. They bring great social advantages which we want to preserve but, at the same time, we must realise that those freedoms which we enjoy impose on us economic costs. I believe that the social advantages outweigh the economic costs, and I make that clear. If we are to trade overseas we have to protect our own social advantages against those overseas who economically are cheating and black legging - call it what you like. We must have some measure of protection against them. It is not enough to say: 'Let them put their prices up'. That type of protection simply means that we are condoning the sweating of labour overseas for the benefit of the totalitarian states. The totalitarian states, which are organised in a socialistic way, are able to sweat labour. This is the great secret of the communists. The communists have taken a feature which Lenin always denounced as being so bad in capitalist society and they have applied it in reverse, because they exploit their workers for the benefit of the totalitarian, socialist state. It is Leninism but it is Leninism in reverse. This is what is happening in Russia today. This is what is happening in Communist China today. It is what will happen in every socialist state. One thing we have to do is protect the Australian worker against unfair competition, organised from socialist states, against his own freer way of life. Of course he has the social advantages of freedom. They are very real advantages, and I assert that they are greater than the economic penalties that we pay for them. But we do pay economic penalties for social advantages, and because we pay these economic penalties we have to protect our Australian workmen. This is our responsibility here. We have to protect our Australian workmen from the blacklegs overseas, whether they be willing blacklegs or whether they be, as I think they are, the unfortunate slaves of their overseas socialist systems. But whatever it is, whichever way we. look at it, it is our business to protect the Australian worker. 
I will not detain the House for long, but I feel that we should emphasise again a couple of points. I support the Bill. 1 am sure that it follows from the policy of the previous Government. Honourable members on the other side have made a critisicm with which I agree. They have said that previous governments were perhaps slow in implementing their policy. I agree with that. But this Bill follows the initiative which was taken by the Government led by the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  and it follows from an inquiry which he set up. It has been said, I think rather unfairly, that this was done as an election gimmick. That is not so. If it had been done as an election gimmick a committee of inquiry would not have been set up. A decision would have been made. The previous Government acted very responsibly. 
I agree with honourable members on the other side that this and other measures were taken to some extent tardily. I also agree that this forms part of a coherent pattern. It is a good thing that we have at last an automatic adjustment for pensions and other payments. This is something which I have advocated in this House for many years from the time before I had the good fortune to be a Minister of the Government, and I believe that this is a good principle. I do not believe that the Bill is over-generous but I point out something that was said on the other side, I think by the honourable member for Banks  (Mr Martin),  earlier in the debate. 
Superannuated people will receive extra benefits because soon they will be freed from the rather unfair discrimination that has applied against them through the means test on age pensions. Again this is something initiated and determined by the previous Government. Perhaps I would agree with honourable members opposite who say that we were too tardy in carrying out our intentions, but I am quite certain that had we remained the Government we would have carried out our intentions more speedily than the present Government will carry out its intentions. We will wait to see what is included in that regard in the coming Budget. I am quite certain that had we remained the Government there would have been no means test on pensions for people over the age of 65 years after we had introduced our next Budget. I do not know whether the present Government will take '.hit action. At all events, what is being done now is good and I support it. It is in line with what we were doing and is developed from what we were doing. 
I believe that the Bill is more complicated than necessary. I would like to see it expressed, and I think it could have been expressed, in a simpler form. That is true not only of this Bill. It is applicable to other Bills, not only measures introduced by this Government but also to those introduced by the preceding Government. Many financial adjustments in the field of pensions and social services and similar fields are expressed in far too complicated a form. They could be put in much simpler forms. What is being done in this Bill is justice. It is no more than justice and I support it. 
I wish now to refer to a more fundamental point related to accounting. Looking not at the Bill but at the report of Professor Pollard, which is the basis of the proposal in the Bill, one sees all sorts of complicated financial adjustments being made as between Consolidated Revenue funds and other funds. I do not believe that these adjustments are at all necessary or serve any useful purpose. Far from serving a useful purpose, they tend to cloud the main financial issues. If the funds are divided up and all sorts of complicated adjustments are made between funds which are all in the same Federal hands, nothing is achieved other than making the provisions more complicated and less comprehensible. As for the adjustments which will put S40m into the Consolidated Revenue Fund this year and will take out $100m in a subsequent year, they do not mean a thing. The result is a net inflow and a net outflow of money. I do not regard notional adjustments between the Treasury and the Postal Department as being of ay significance at all. I do not think they should be brought into the exercise or even taken into consideration. It is pure accounting piffle which just confuses the main issue. It does not affect the overall financial position. 
The overall financial position is important and it is at this point that the Government is faced with its most difficult economic problem; that is the containment of inflation. I do not believe that the Budget is anything like the sole determinant of the demand situation or the economic climate. I believe that in past years we have blown up the importance of the Budget beyond its true importance. But it does have some importance. As my colleague the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Edwards)  said earlier in this debate, it has to be fitted into the overall financial policy of the Government and has to take its part in that financial framework. 
The Government is different in that respect from an individual who is setting up for his employees a superannuation fund or something of that character. Each individual has to look at his forward commitments, but the Government has to look at its forward commitments in relation to the totality of its forward revenue. It may be that with escalating prices the pension to be paid will rise. Of course pensions will rise, but it should also be remembered that with escalating prices the money receipts of the Treasury will also rise so that the comparative burden of pensions upon the Treasury will not increase. The Treasury, which has the totality of Australia's resources behind it, does not have the same kind of regard for accounting as individual superannuation funds must have. Therefore I say that in this field as in so many other fields we can achieve the result we want in a much simpler way. I hope to illustrate my point shortly by introducing into the House a measure designed to help young couples achieve the finance they require for their own homes. I think that this can be done by a fairly simple device. 
I think that we are bedevilling the whole question of national superannuation and making it far too complex. I have seen the draft schemes circulated from time to time by the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden).  They are not always particularly comprehensible, coherent or self -consistent. Certainly from time to time they differ substantially, but each of them has a factor in common. Each is a very complicated scheme and difficult to follow. I do not think that is necessary. It is possible to bring in a national superannuation scheme on a simple basis. I am quite certain that had we remained the Government for this year we would have been able to bring in and implement a simple, equtable and workable scheme of national superannuation for Australia. Complexity in this measure and other measures is very much overdone and overvalued. 
I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would preclude the immediate consideration of the following motion: 
That this House censures the Prime Minister for his failure to dissociate himself publicly from the dishonest and dishonourable conduct of his Ministers in the Senate'. 
It is not usual, of course, to refer in this House to proceedings in another place- 
That the motion be put forthwith. 
In that case, will the motion be put? 
I move: 
That in paragraph (a) after the word 'state' insert the words 'but does not include coal'. 
I believe that this is a matter in which an unintentional error has been made by the Government. The definition of petroleum, as I read it from the Bill, is any naturally occurring hydrocarbon, whether in gaseous, liquid or solid state. That would include coal. I do not believe that the Government meant that. I suggest that we include the words 'but does not include coal'. This could be done in the Senate if necessary. I am sure that it is an error and was not meant. 
I will not press the point. It is obvious that coal in its powdered form can be transported through a pipeline, but it can also be bought and sold. I do not think the Government means this. Coal is a solid hydrocarbon. Do not let me detain the Committee any longer. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 4 to 16  -  by leave - taken together, and agreed to. 
Proposed new clause 16a. 
I move: 
That the following new clause be inserted in the Bill: 16a. (1) The Authority shall be deemed to be a common carrier and to have the obligations of a common carrier. 
Without limiting the generality of sub-section (1), the Authority shall, subject to the capacity of its pipelines, be under obligation to accept petroleum at any point on its pipeline for delivery at any other point on its pipelines, and to charge for such service a fee which is not greater than either - 
a fee which is reasonable having regard to the costs incurred by the Authority for such service and for the use of its facilities; 
the fee charged to any other customer for such service; or 
the fee reasonably included or notionally included in its own accounts for comparable services performed on petroleum in its own ownership. 
The Authority shall publish in the Gazette particulars of all contracts which it makes for the transport of petroleum.'. 
This is a substantial matter and I would ask the Committee to consider it very carefully. The Minister in his second reading speech spoke of the Authority having a role as a common carrier'. I think that if this is what the Minister intends it should be put into the Bill. As honourable members will know, in common law a common carrier has certain obligations. They are the obligations of acting fairly with all potential customers and preventing the exploitation of a monopoly position. If the Minister is reasonable and if he meant what he said - I assume that he meant what he said - he should have no difficulty in accepting into the Bill the words of his second reading speech. In his second reading speech he used the words 'a common carrier'. I have therefore moved that the Authority shall be deemed to be a common carrier and to have the obligations of a common carrier. 
Furthermore, in order to make these obligations explicit 1 have moved certain other additions. My amendment reads in part: 
Without limiting the generality of sub-section (1), the Authority shall, subject lo the capacity of its pipelines, be under obligation to accept petroleum at any point on its pipeline for delivery at any other point on its pipelines, and to charge for such service a fee which is not greater than either - 
a fee which is reasonable having regard to the costs incurred by the Authority for such service and for the use of its facilities; 
the fee charged to any other customer for such service; or 
the fee reasonably included or notionally included in its own accounts for comparable services performed on petroleum in its own ownership. 
These amendments are meant to carry out the principles which were enunciated by the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton),  whose speech the Minister commended so much and whose speech I support in the same terms. If the Minister really meant what he said, he will be inclined to accept this amendment. 
The amendment goes to the root of the difficulties that the Opposition has in regard to this Bill. The Opposition is not worried about the national pipeline system. What it is worried about are possible abuses of the national pipeline concept by the Government. They are abuses which I understand the Minister disavows. If his disavowal is honest - why should we accept it as being anything other than honest? - he will not object to including in the Bill the specific provisions which will carry out what should be his honest intention. It is important that the new Authority should not be in a monopolist position which would enable it to abuse that position. Under my amendment the Authority will be compelled to accept, subject only to the capacity of its pipelines, petroleum products from any producer for delivery at any other point on its pipelines. A producer can, if he feels so inclined, build his own pipeline into junction with the Authority's pipeline. But at that point of junction the Authority would, under my amendment, be compelled to accept that petroleum for transport over its pipelines as a common carrier. 
My amendment goes on to say that the Authority should not charge an unreasonable amount for this service. Again I refer to what the right honourable member for Higgins said, because I think that the Government might well consider the point he made about including the interest on the pipeline. My amendment says that the fee charged for the service should not exceed the proper cost of that service; nor should it exceed the comparable cost charged to other customers, so that it would not be able to freeze people out; nor should it exceed what the Authority is charging itself for the service of transport of petroleum it has bought over that pipeline. In other words, this amendment will be quite harmless to the Authority if the Authority acts in the honest way in which the Minister believes it will act; but, of course, it is designed to prevent the Authority from doing a dishonest thing. If the Minister is of good faith - let us assume that he is of good faith in this matter, as I am prepared to do- 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Dr Jenkins)  - Order! The time allotted for all stages of the Bill has expired. 
Proposed new clause negatived. 
Remainder of Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. The honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Riordan)  when speaking of honourable members on this side of the House, including myself, said that we were advocating low wages. The position is exactly the opposite. I have always advocated the highest possible wages. 
Remaining stages of the Bill agreed to. 
 Mr Speaker,  I understand that the Bill before the House is to impose a royalty on minerals other than petroleum recovered from submerged lands. I support this Bill, which is a natural consequence of the Seas and Submerged Lands Bill which has just been passed. I think it is important to say something about the philosophy of this Bill. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 

 Mr ACTING SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
Yes. Over the weekend the 'Sydney Morning Herald* represented that I was opposed to the Prices Justification Bill on the ground that it would be too drastic and effective. This is exactly the opposite of the truth. I support the principle of prices justification but I believe that the Bill will be ineffectual and naive. What I did say was that  I  was opposed to what I regarded as the sinister side purposes of this Bill which were not allowed to be debated because the Committee stage was not called on.  I  was hoping that the Senate would correct the omissions which we were forced to make. here. 
I was much impressed earlier today to hear the very sincere words from the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  when he was talking about the International Labour Organisation convention and the need to abolish all kinds of discrimination. 
It was not a Bill. 
At any rate, I do not intend to transgress the Standing Orders. I wanted to say how impressed I was particularly with the point he made that the Government intended to do something about discrimination against age. I think that this assurance will touch the hearts of many of us. 
Therefore, I was rather shocked to find how so far out of line and sympathy the Minister was with his own Government.  Mr Speaker,  you will remember that last week the House passed the Prices Justification Bill. I would like to read clause 7(2): 
A person, other than a Judge, who has attained the age of sixty-five years shall not be appointed or re-appointed as the  Chairman  or as a full-time member, and a person, other than a Judge, shall not be appointed or re-appointed as the  Chairman  or as a full-time member for a period that extends beyond the date on which he will attain the age of sixty-five years. 
I just want to point out that once again the unhappy Minister for Labour, sincere though he is, well meaning though he is and eloquent though he is sometimes is out of touch with the Government. Apparently, the left hand of the Government does not always know what its right hand is doing. We have the Government putting through the House last week a Bill which contained a most blatant kind of discrimination on the grounds of age. 

 - Mr Speaker, I am speaking about what happened last week. I pointed out that it was only last week - I think that I am in order in referring to what happened last week - that the Government passed through the House a Bill which contained the most blatant discrimination against age. Yet, we have this unhappy, well meaning and sincere Minister coming into the House and making a statement that the Government, amongst other things, intends to abolish all sorts of discrimination against age in relation to employment. It looks very funny to me.  Mr Speaker,  I dare say that you and I will be equally amused. Of course, you, who sit there above the stress of politics, absolutely insulated from the sordid goings-on in the Party room, will join with me in regretting the kind of- 
Yes, double talk. It is worse than that. It is double thinking that goes on in the Government. It has a left hand and a right hand, a left wing and a right wing. There is not always sufficient communication between them.  Mr Speaker,  I see that you are just about to rise, as you should, and draw my attention and that of the House to the fact that it is 11 o'clock. I bid you a very good night. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. I refer to his appropriation, for his own use, of the Commonwealth luxury guest house at Kirribilli, his unprecedented chartering of aircraft, etc., for his excursions overseas and his acquisition at Commonwealth expense for his own use of a luxury Mercedes car, like none other yet available in Australia. These are examples of socialist equality in action. Has the Prime Minister considered the second verse of the first chapter of the book of Ecclesiastes? 
The honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  and the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  have both, T think very rightly, drawn attention to the need to look after the normal family to a greater extent and particularly to the need to look after the married couple at the birth of their first and second children. This is something which I hope the private member's Bill which I will introduce into the House tomorrow will deal with to some extent - although only to some extent and it will touch on only part of the problem. I should like to have spoken at greater length on the main provisions of the Bills before the House but I know that an agreement has been made in regard to the limitation of time for debate and I shall not violate that agreement. 
I just place on record that I have some disquiet about some features of the Bills, but I will not go into those features at any length. Instead, I want to say something about an amendment which I propose to move in the committee stage which is not related to the matters which the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  mentioned but does come within the order of leave for the Bills. If the LiberalCountry Party government had remained in power and if I had been the Minister for Social Services there would have been a development of the program that we had under way. I want now to put before the House 2 of the things which quite inevitably would have been done had we remained in power and which I believe should be done. The first is a measure to help widowers with dependent children and the second is a measure to cure an anomaly regarding the application of the means test in sheltered workshops, particularly as it presses upon those at the bottom of the scale who by reason of their incapacity are earning perhaps only $3, $4 or $5 a week. Those are the 2 things to which I am directing amendments which I hope to have an opportunity of moving in committee. 
I shall deal just briefly with those 2 matters. I refer first to widowers with dependent children. While the previous government was in power we tried to clean up one by one the more pressing pockets of hardship in the community. I think we achieved this. But one pocket that was left and one which I had hoped very much to have an opportunity of clearing up, at any rate in this present year, was that of the widower with dependent children. I speak first of the man whose wife has died. Very often it is a terrible thing for such a man that when he is faced with the loss of his wife, at the same time, because of the fact that he receives no social security benefits or help, he is faced with the loss of his young children because he is unable to keep them at home. This has always seemed to me to be one of the most terrible things that could face a man. There is another case which unfortunately is becoming more common in the community, and that is the case of the deserted husband whose wife has left him with young children. He also suffers from emotional deprivation. We should not be adding to this emotional situation the financial hardship of receiving no help from social security benefits. 
Therefore, in Committee I shall move an amendment designed to place the widower with dependent children on the same footing as the widow with dependent children. This is something which by reason of the operation of the means test, of course, will not mean that a man earning a wage will receive the full pension, but under the measures which the last government brought in, by the tapering of the means test and by the raising of the free area of income from SIO to $20 a week, those men who perhaps have 2 or 3 dependent children and who are earning, say, $80 to $90 a week will still receive a considerable help. These are people whom we should be helping and whom I hope the Government will consider in accepting the amendment which I propose to move. 
The second matter I mentioned applies only to supplementary assistance payable to people working in sheltered workshops. As the Minister may remember, there is a precedent for treating income from sheltered workshop employment on a different level from that of other income. I hope that we can get rid of the anomaly whereby the one for one loss of supplementary assistance presses on those in sheltered workshops. I do not know whether honourable members have had as much experience as I have had of visiting sheltered workshops and seeing what happens in them and what are the complaints and the difficulties in them, but very often these problems arise through the entire loss of supplementary assistance to the employees at quite low levels of income. I can understand the Government's desire not to make supplementary assistance too widespread through the community. However, I hope that it will do what the previous government would have done in this term if it had been in office, and that is to rationalise the means test on supplementary assistance as we did in regard to the main means test. 1 can understand that the Government might not want to go too far in this matter at one jump. Therefore I suggest that at the present moment income earned in a sheltered workshop should be considered differently from normal income and the free limit for supplementary assistance should be raised to $10 a week and the balance of income should be subject to a tapering means test. These simple measures - the widower's benefit and the change in supplementary assistance that I have suggested - between them will not cost more than $4m a year. This is a small amount in comparison with the $26m a year which the Minister has suggested - I believe it is an underestimate - is the cost per year of the. measures presently before the House. So, I do not think that the Government should be deterred by the financial impediment of my suggestions. I hope very earnestly that the Government will be prepared to accept my proposed amendments, which are reasonable and very modest. They are designed to cure 2 of the remaining defects in our social security system. Of course, they are defects which affect only a small minority of social service recipients and widowers, but that minority suffers great hardship. 
In the name of humanity I hope that the, Government will act quickly, as we undoubtedly would have in this term. I do not propose to press this matter to the stage of calling for a division. I do not want to impair or impede in any way the main purposes of the Bills which the Minister has put before the House. I would not want the consideration of my amendment to be used as an opportunity to delay the Bills before the House. But I suggest to the Minister that he look at the matters I have raised on their merits and look at the hardships which my amendment might obviate and look at the comparatively small cost, when measured against the cost which he has given for the measures now before us. In Committee I hope to move those 2 amendments which, as honourable members know, have already been circulated in my name. 
 I move: 
That the following new clause be inserted in the Bill: 3a. (1) Section 30a of the Principal Act is amended by inserting after sub-section (3.) the following sub-section: "(3a) In computing means as assessed under the preceding sub-section, there shall be excluded from the earnings of a pensioner employed in a sheltered workshop under the provisions of the Sheltered Employment (Assistance) Act 1970 - 
an amount of four hundred and sixteen dollars per annum; and 
one-half of the excess of such earnings over five hundred and twenty dollars per annum.". 
The amendment made by sub-section (1) shall not operate until the Parliament has made an appropriation for any expenditure which it may involve.'. 
I listened to what the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  said in his reply to the speeches on the motion for the second reading of the Bill. I appreciate the difficulties it will involve, but I do not believe that this amendment is justified at the present time. It is true that the application of this provision generally across the supplementary assistance board would result in quite heavy expenditure. The Minister was quite correct in drawing the attention of honourable members to that. On the other hand, I do believe it would be possible to accept this provision with regard to sheltered workshops as the expenditure involved would be absolutely negligible, to be quite candid, and would not be likely to infect, if I can use that phrase, the rest of the scheme in the way in which the Minister has feared, and involve him in the heavy expenditure he fears. I am in agreement with the Minister on that. 
The Minister said that he knows that the present provision is a disincentive. It is a very great disincentive. Worse than that, it does sometimes cause unreasonable resentment in the minds of those people who are heavily handicapped. Those who are mentally handicapped perhaps would be unable to appreciate the facts of the situation. I would not like to see anything happen in a sheltered workshop which caused that kind of resentment and bad feeling, particularly among those who are, as I have said, heavily handicapped. The Minister has said that there may be some other solution to this problem. That may be the case. But I should have thought - I do not know the details of what he has in mind - that the kind of solution that is based on the West German experience that he outlined to this chamber would itself be amenable to the same kind of troubles in regard to infecting other supplementary assistance as the one that I have suggested. But, be that as it may, the Minister and I are at one, I think, in that we realise that something has to be done with regard to this matter. 
I think the Minister was wrong in saying that I was remonstrating with him. If I gave that impression, I did not mean it in the slightest. Here we have a real and substantial problem. Surely between the Opposition and the Government we can find some kind of solution to it. I appreciate the fact that there are other solutions. But, whatever they are, let there be no delay in implementing them. I still think it is unlikely that the Government will find a better solution than the one which I have put forward in the form of this proposed amendment. The Minister has told me that he cannot accept the amendment. I do not intend to take up the time of the chamber by pressing it to divide on this matter. I am glad, on behalf of the people concerned, that something is going to be done very shortly. Whether it be this solution or another solution, I look forward to what the Minister is going to put forward. 
Proposed new clause negatived. 
Clause 4 agreed to. 
Clause 5. 
Section 59 of the Principal Act is amended - 
by omitting from the definition of 'child' in sub-section (1) all the words after the words sixteen years'; and 
by adding at the end thereof the following sub-section: 
For the purposes of this Part, a child who is being maintained by a widow shall be deemed to be a child of whom the widow has, and had at any time when she was maintaining the child, the custody, care and control.'. 
-I move: 
Omit the clause, substitute the following clause: 5.(1) Section 59 of the Principal Act is amended- 
by omitting from the definition of "child" in sub-section (1) all the words after the words "sixteen years,"; "widow" in sub-section (1) the following paragraph: "(f) a man who has the care and custody of his dependent child or children and - 
whose wife has died or has been divorced, and who has not re-married; or 
whose wife has deserted him, or is a mental hospital patient."; and 
by adding at the end thereof the following sub-section: 
For the purposes of this Part, a child who is being maintained by a widow shall be deemed to be a child of whom the widow has, and had at any time when she was maintaining the child, the custody, care and control. 
The amendment made by paragraph (b) of subsection (1) shall not operate until the Parliament has made an appropriation for any expenditure which it may involve.' 
I listened to what the Minister said in relation to this matter in his reply to the speeches on the motion for the second reading of the Bill. I am sorry that this amendment cannot be accepted immediately. The amount of money involved would not be substantial when considered in relation to the cost of the implementation of the proposals contained in the Bill which is before us at present. I think it would operate to correct a very heavy injustice and a very heavy hardship which lies on widowers. There are, as I have said, 2 classes of widowers. There are those who have lost their wives and still have young children, which is a terrible thing for a man to experience. It is something which is becoming more common because of the increase in the number of motor accidents. The second class consists of the deserted husbands whose wives leave them with young children. This is also, unfortunately, becoming more common. Both classes of men deserve our very greatest sympathy. Several alternative solutions could be advanced to this problem. I think the one I have suggested is a fair and reasonable one. I will not pretend that there are no other solutions. All I want to impress upon the Minister is that something should be done about this matter and done fairly quickly. I take it from his remarks earlier that that is in the Governments' mind. Once again it is not a case of my trying to remonstrate with the Government or anything of that character; it is a case of my believing that something should be done, and done quickly, for this class of person. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 6 to 20 - by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 21. 
Where, within three months after the commencement of this Act, a woman lodges a claim for a benefit under Part  IVaaa  of the Principal Act as amended by this Act, the benefit, if granted, is to be paid from - 
in the case of a woman who was a supporting mother on the date of commencement of this Act - that date; or 
in any other case - the first widow's pension pay-day after that date on which the woman was a supporting mother. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
 Mr Speaker,  I seem to have drawn the short straw again. I am delighted to support the matter that has been raised by the honourable member for Warringah  (Mr MacKellar)  and supported by the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Riordan).  The honourable member for Phillip said, I think rightly, that in Australia we have the best beaches in the world. People who have not been abroad and seen other beaches may not always realise how true this is. Surfing and surf life saving are part of the Australian way of life and we hope that they will be even more a part of it. When one thinks of the way in which we talk of improving the quality of life and the enjoyment of life, surfing must surely play a great part in it. Especially do I say this of the city of Sydney which is situated on the beaches. I suppose that my electorate of Mackellar would have more surfing beaches in it than any other electorate in the world. I think that there are as many as 14 life saving clubs in my electorate. 
I want to be practical about this. The question of costs comes into this matter. Surfing requires surf life saving, and surf life saving requires facilities. This can be an expensive matter. I believe that in the United States of America as much as $2m or $3m a year is spent on a single beach in patrols and in providing the services which our surf life savers give free. If only from the point of view of economy, it is well that they should be supported. I think it was in 1951 that the Commonwealth Government first supported life saving clubs. I was associated with the move to get that support. The $10,000 a year which was given has grown to $34,000 a year but this is far from sufficient. One thinks not only of the support which must be given to the surf life saving clubs as such but also to the scheme which has been advanced by the clubs for the construction of what they call surf pavilions which will be for the use not only of the clubs but also of the people who patronise the beaches.  Mr Speaker,  once more, goodnight. 
Mouse adjourned at 11 p.m. 
Thank you,  Mr Speaker.  I know that under the Standing Orders I cannot reply to the mishmash of nonsense we have just heard. 
Yes,  Sir. The  Minister for Housing  (Mr Les Johnson)  said, among other things, that I had made no reference to how this scheme would fit in with the homes savings grant scheme and that it was incompatible with it. Evidently he has not read clause 19 of the Bill. I now read it to him in order to show where he was wrong in making that statement. Clause 19 states: 
Amounts paid for the purchase of Housing Certificates shall be deemed to be acceptable savings for the purposes of the Homes Savings Grant Act 1964-1972 . . 
Before the Minister says things like he said he might as well read the Bill. I do not blame him because although he said wrongly that I had given him the Bill last week, in fact I gave it to him last Tuesday. 
1 gave it to the Minister last Tuesday, not last week. I know that he has not had a chance to read it, but I am rather surprised at the kind of things he said, rather ill-advisedly. I wish to refer to another matter. The Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  said that I had repudiated an agreement. That is utterly, completely, and unreservedly false. I was told by the Minister for Housing of what the Government intended to do. I was told; I was not asked. I made no agreement. I was told simply what the Government intended to do in this regard. To say that I had repudiated an agreement is utterly and unreservedly false. There is no reason for it whatsoever. Also it was said by the honourable member for Banks  (Mr Martin)  that this matter had not been discussed in Caucus. The 
Minister for Housing said that he was speaking for the Party. I cannot reconcile the 2 statements. 
One of those statements is false. Perhaps one of them is a lie. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read  a  second time. 
The past Liberal Government concentrated its social service policy on relieving pockets of greatest need and hardship, and as that was progressively done obviously the next steps would have related to other groups where perhaps more people were involved, although the hardship might not have been so intense as that experienced by the aged and sick who had received relief through past policy. 
I believe that now we have come to one of these greater and more important groups. I refer particularly to the young married couples and especially to the position of young married couples on the birth of the first child. At this stage, as honourable members will know, it very often happens that the 2 incomes which have been coming into the household are reduced to one at the very time when household expenses tend to increase and at a time probably when the fixed commitments that these young people have on their homes and for other capital goods still continue to press upon them. I will not go into the details of this at present because I do not have time to do so. But honourable members will realise that because of many causes - and I do not want to say that these are good or bad, but simply to record what has happened - over recent decades the position of the young married couple with a child has deteriorated in the community. This has not been a deterioration perhaps in absolute terms but it certainly is the case in the comparative terms which are important to so many people. 
I, as a Minister in the past Government, commissioned Professor Henderson to undertake an inquiry into the various forms of poverty in Australia. I would not be surprised if when that report is issued it is found that among the people who are suffering most there are many of these young couples whom we would consider to be almost in a normal situation but who have family responsibilities which they find difficult to maintain. These people are not in an extraordinary situation. Many of them would be generally considered to be among the normal run of people. As I said, I do not intend to go into the details of why this is happening. I simply say that if honourable members look around their own electorates, friends, acquaintances and families they will know from their own experience many examples of the kind of situation to which I am referring. 
I do not want to suggest for one moment that we should tolerate economic circumstances in which a wife with a young child is compelled against her will to take paid employment away from the home. I think this is socially bad. 1 believe it is one of the real problems to which we should be directing our attention. I am sure that we on this side of the House - and I hope I will be supported by honourable members on the other side in this regard - will be looking to raise the standards of living of these people whom one would almost regard- 
Oh! 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. What the honourable member for Cook  (Mr Thorburn)  says is true but it is not relevant. The payments to which he referred were ordinary payments which were made to the Warringah Shire Council and to other councils. The only point 1 make is that no ministerial preference was given by me to a council in my own area. The payments were made but other councils received them also. 
I listened very attentively to the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  and particularly to the first part of his remarks when he talked about his desire for real co-operation with the States. I ask him whether, if he really means this, perhaps in his new clause he would substitute for the words 'after consultation with the appropriate Minister of the State concerned' the words with the approval of the appropriate Minister of the State concerned'. Will he be prepared to do that? I ask the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam). 
That shows the bad faith of the Government throughout in this matter. It will not come out and do things honestly and fairly. I was in the House when the dialogue occurred to which the Prime Minister and the Minister for Urban and Regional Development have drawn attention. I listened to it very carefully because I think I was the original person to suggest that the words 'by regulation' should be substituted. I was listening very intently. It is true that the Hansard as it is before us gives a correct account of what was said. It cannot, of course, cover all the interjections and it cannot, of course, cover the tone of what was said. I return to the Hansard. It records that immediately after the Prime Minister had said:'I accept that' the Leader of the Opposition said: 
I appreciate that. It will be moved by somebody on this side of the House that the words 'by regulation' be substituted for the words 'by instrument in writing'. 
It was quite clear what was meant - absolutely clear. It is just the typical double dealing of the Prime Minister that has brought- 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Lucock)  - Order! I suggest to the honourable member for Mackellar that he might withdraw the remarks that he has made in relation to the Prime Minister. 
I withdraw them.I let the Committee judge the matter. It is typical of the frankness of the Prime Minister that this kind of thing is brought in. It was quite clear in the House what the Prime Minister committed himself to. It was absolutely clear. The Prime Minister said: 
I accept that. 
The Leader of the Opposition said: 
It will be moved by somebody on this side of the House that the words 'by regulation' be substituted for the words 'by instrument in writing'. 
It is a simple amendment to the Bill. The Government is twisting and turning with this complicated, stupid amendment which is meant to get it out of the position where it really has to be honest, where it really has to do either what the States want or what the Parliament wants. Why should the Parliament be bypassed? We have heard all this talk from the Minister that members and senators may be lobbied by their constituent councils. What else is a member or a senator for? Are we not here so that we can represent our electorates? Are we not here so that we can represent our States? Is it so terrible that my local council, the Shire of Warringah, should lobby me? Is it so terrible that the member for any other electorate should be lobbied by his local councils? Is this suggested as something that is really shocking? This is in point of fact what should happen. We are here as representatives. If there is any organisation in a member's electorate which has a right to lobby him it is an organisation which has the status of a council. We are all lobbied by all the local progress associations, the Boy Scouts and the Girl Guides. All this is good and proper. If there is one body more than another which has the right to approach its member in Parliament on a matter which concerns it, it is a local council. The Minister for Urban and Regional Development says that this is such a terrible thing and must not be allowed to occur. 
The Government, if it were acting in good faith, would either say: 'We will allow these groupings to be made in consultation with the State Minister and with his concurrence and approval' or else it would say: 'We will have them supervised by the Federal Parliament'. But, no, it will accept neither of these supervisions. It will not accept that of the State Minister. Sometimes he is a member of the Government's own Party and sometimes he is not. The Government will not accept his supervision, although he is the man nearest to the local government scene in his State and knows it best. The Government will not accept his supervision nor will it accept the supervision of the Parliament. Each one of us as a member in the Parliament is here representing the constituent bodies in our areas insofar as they are affected by any Federal legislation. The fact that the Government will accept supervision from neither of these bodies, neither the State nor the Parliament, shows that the 
Government is up to some kind of hankypanky. I wonder what it is. 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
 Mr Chairman,  I move: 
At the end of sub-clause (4)(b)- 
The motion was on the amendment; it was not on the clause. 
I move: 
At the end of sub-clause (4)(b) - 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  proposed: 
That the question be now put. 
This is double dealing,  Mr Chairman.  This is terrible; it is outrageous. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Shyster lawyer. 
Shyster lawyer. 
Clauses  19  to  26 -  by leave - taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause  27. 
The Governor-General may make regulations, not inconsistent with this Act, prescribing all matters which by this Act are required or permitted to be prescribed or which are necessary or convenient to be prescribed for carrying out or giving effect to this Act and, in particular, for - 
regulating the practice and procedure of the Commission; and 
prescribing the form in which applications for financial assistance shall be made. 
It is always a little difficult in a cognate debate of this character - a debate on more than one Bill - to state one's views with absolute clarity, especially in a matter such as this where I support the Bill which gives the extra member in the House of Representatives to the Australian Capital Territory but oppose most sincerely the Bill which endeavours to subvert and change the basis of the Senate. Let me try to deal with these 2 questions separately and show why I feel that this is the course we should adopt. 
It is fair that the Australian Capital Territory should now qualify for 2 members in the 
House of Representatives in place of the existing one member. It qualifies by reason of the great increase in population which continues to take place here. The House will recall that it will not be long - a year or two - before the number of electors enrolled in the Australian Capital Territory will be twice the normal quota of electors for each electorate throughout Australia. Under those conditions I see no reason why we should not allow the Australian Capital Territory to have representation in this House on the same basis as other electorates. I notice that this measure has been opposed by some people, although it would not be opposed by me, on the ground that public servants constitute the main population of Canberra and by reason of their influence they have been able to obtain most favoured treatment for Canberra in respect of such matters as schools, sewerage and public amenities. To some extent this is true, but I think that even the people in other electorates would recognise that when the number of electors in the Australian Capital Territory reaches the requisite level 2 members in place of the existing one member should be given to the Australian Capital Territory. It is as well to recall that in respect of both the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory almost all the significant moves for fair representation in this House have been made by the previous Liberal-Country Party Government or its predecessors. It was in 1922 that the Northern Territory first obtained a representative here. There was not a Federal Labor government in those days. In 1936 that member was given his first voting rights, and that was in respect of the disallowance of ordinances. There was not a Labor government in those days. In 1959 he was given wider rights of voting on specific matters affecting the Northern Territory. There was not a Labor government in those days. In 1968 he was given full voting rights. There was not a Labor government in those days. When one looks at the history  -  I am afraid that my friend, the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  who is at the table, tended, perhaps unconsciously, to mislead the House on this matter in his second reading speech - one will see that nearly all the advances have come under a Liberal-Country Party government, a Nationalist government or a United Australia Party government. The Opposition will continue to try to be scrupulously fair in this matter. 
It is true that it was in 1948 that the Australian Capital Territory first achieved any representation in this House, but I think that honourable members will recall that before that date the number of electors in the Australian Capital Territory would have been only very small. It was done as soon as it was fair to do it. It was in 1959 and 1968, under a non-Labor government, that the powers of that member were enlarged. I think the Minister at the table when he thinks back will be fair about this and realise that most of the advances have been made by the parties on this side of the House. I shall say very little more about this because I believe that the proposal which the Government has brought forward is fair. It would not have been fair had it been introduced earlier; but, by reason of the increase in the number of electors in the Australian Capital Territory which is occurring, it is fair now. 
Let me come to the other matter. I definitely oppose the Government's proposal that there be 2 senators from the Northern Territory and 2 senators from the Australian Capital Territory. I have 3 reasons for opposing this measure: Firstly, I believe that the constitutional validity of the proposal is, at best, very doubtful; certainly I believe it to be unconstitutional. Secondly, it is not clear and there is ambiguity. Thirdly, I think it is substantially wrong, that it subverts the whole basis of the Senate and that it is unfair to every elector in the rest of Australia that this kind of preference should be given to the Australian Capital Territory. Let me deal with each of these 3 arguments. First of all as to the constitutional validity of the proposal, speaking as a layman on a legal matter, in contradistinction to my learned friends the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  and the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  who have put arguments to the House, as I read it section 122 of the Constitution allows the representation of a Territory in either House of the Parliament to the extent and on the terms which the Parliament thinks fit. This, of course, must be read in conjunction with the rest of the Constitution. I believe that the word 'extent' properly refers to the numbers and that the word 'terms' probably refers to the length of the term for which members are elected. It is not 'term and conditions' as occurs in other phrases in the Constitution. It is 'terms' and I think it refers to a period of time. I turn now to section 7 of the Constitution which states: 
The Senate shall be composed of senators for each State, directly chosen by the people of the State. . . . 
This is the fundamental constitutional law of the Senate. The Senate is composed of senators for each State, directly chosen by the people of the State. So it could be said that the new senators will not be senators in terms of the Constitution because the Constitution lays down quite specifically in section 7 that senators are chosen directly by the people of the State. To my layman's mind that seems quite clear. I refer to another section of the Constitution. Section 23 states: 
Questions arising in the Senate shall be determined by a majority of votes, and each senator shall have one vote. The  President  shall in all cases be entitled to a vote; and when the votes are equal the question shall pass in the negative. 
This is a very restrictive and carefully drawn section of the Constitution and I think it makes it clear that this Parliament is constitutionally incapable of conferring on the people represented in the Senate - whether they represent the Northern Territory or the Australian Capital Territory in the Senate - the right to vote in the Senate or, indeed, to be senators. This seems to be a matter of elementary constitutional law. 
Therefore, I would think that section 122 must be read in a sense which allows representation in the Senate in the same sense that we gave representation to the Northern Territory in this House in 1936. We said  to  the new member: 'You are here and you can speak. You can take part in debates. But you cannot vote'. I believe that any law which endeavours to confer on people chosen from the Territories to sit in the Senate the right to vote in the Senate would be an unconstitutional law and would be thrown out by the High Court. I draw the attention of the House to distinctions which arise in regard to the position of the Senate and that of the House of Representatives. If one looks at the relevant clauses in the Constitution, one can see that they are quite different. Let me contrast for honourable members - I will read the clauses once again - section 7 of the Constitution which applies to the Senate with section 24 of the Constitution which applies to the House of Representatives. Section 7 states: 
The Senate shall be composed of senators for each State, directly chosen by the people of the State, . . . 
Only people in the States can vote for senators. But section 24, which relates to the House of Representatives, states: 
The House of Representatives shall be composed of members directly chosen by the people of the Commonwealth. . . . 
People in the Territories are people of the Commonwealth; they are not people of the States. There is no constitutional bar to the representation with full voting rights of the Territories in this House but there is a constitutional bar, I would think, to the representation of those Territories in the other House. 
Of course it is. Again, I should like to contrast section 23 of the Constitution with section 40. Section 23 states: 
Questions arising in the Senate shall be determined by a majority of votes, and each senator shall have one vole. 
So, if the proposed new senators are not senators, they cannot vote. But section 40 of the Constitution, which is the corresponding section in regard to the House of Representatives, is quite different because it states: 
Questions arising in the Mouse of Representatives shall be determined by a majority of votes other than that of the  Speaker. 
Since members of the Territories are constitutionally capable of being represented in this House, they are capable also of voting in it. I do not think that the Government really has turned its mind to the difficult constitutional questions involved in this Bill. It has been misled by the fact that there is no constitutional bar or difficulty in putting members of the Territories as representatives in this House but there is a constitutional bar to putting them as senators in the Senate. 1 am a mere layman in these matters and 1 have given a layman's view of it. After all, the Constitution was drafted by lawyers but there were a lot of laymen present and I do not believe that we can entirely ignore the commonsense or the lay view of a constitutional matter. I feel that the High Court would take this kind of view, as it always has done. The Court has adopted the very widest and non-legalistic principle when it comes to interpreting the terms of the Constitution. So my first reason for opposing this Bill is the doubts - they are rather more than doubts, I am afraid - as to its constitutional validity. 
My second reason is, of course, the lack of clarity contained in the Bill, as the honourable member for Parramatta pointed out earlier in this debate. We do not know whether they are senators or not senators or whether they are to be counted for this or for that. Really, they will not know where they stand. We do not know whether they are to be Arthur or Martha. They are really going to be quite confused and, indeed, if I may say so, it will be the difference between a tadpole and a frog. I mean no disrespect to the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  who is at the table. I do not want to labour this point but the lack of clarity in this Bill and the evident confusion between the Bills which are brought forward by the Government are themselves sufficient reason for throwing out this legislation. 
I come to the matters of substance. My friend the honourable member for Moreton has pointed out the really tremendous impact which this Bill will have on the whole of the Constitution. It is true that, in the phrase used by the honourable member for Parramatta, the Constitution is not only a legal document; it is also a compact between the States and as a compact between the States it does embody a certain inequity in voting power. For example, it allows for the same number of senators for Tasmania as it does for New South Wales. I think the ratio of population between the 2 States is something like 12 to one. So a voter for the Senate in Tasmania has 12 times the weight of a voter in New South Wales. This is not something which New South Wales has always been terribly happy about but we accepted it because it was part of the original Constitution. It is part of the Federal compact and, as such, it is accepted and generally regarded as something which cannot and perhaps should not be changed. 
There exists an inequity in voting. The principle of one vote one value is thrown right out of the window. This was the price of Federation and it was a price which we agreed to pay and, having agreed to pay, we will of course go on paying. But what is going to happen in regard to the Northern Territory, for example? According to the Government, it is to have 2 voting senators. What is the population of the Northern Territory? 
I am informed that there are 90,000 people in the Northern Territory. If this number were to be multiplied by SO, we would have about the population of New South Wales. Is this the kind of thing which should be tolerated, even if New South Wales has 10 senators and the Northern Territory will have only two? It is not. This kind of inequity is going too far altogether. While one would accept the principle of inequity in the representation of the small States as part of the price of the Federation contract and honour the contract which has been entered into, I see no reason why, when there is no constitutional need for us to do so, we should import this principle of tremendous inequity into the Senate. What are the people of my electorate going to say to me when they are told that I have voted to put the Senate under the control of 2 tiny groups, one in the Northern Territory and one in the bureaucracy of Canberra? 
They will not say it to me because I will not vote for the Bill, but perhaps it will be said to some supporters of the Government. Some of their electorates are quite big. Their constituents will not be happy about having their tails twisted all the time by a small minority holding the balance of power in the Senate. Under our system of proportional representation the Senate is always fairly evenly balanced. There are only two or three votes between the parties on either side. Are we to have the constitutional position that the Northern Territory and Canberra can gang up together, join the majority in the Senate, and hold the rest of Australia to ransom? 
My electorate perhaps will tolerate the fact that schools in Canberra are better than the schools in my electorate; perhaps they will tolerate that all bouses in Canberra are sewered in advance, and things of that character; but they will not tolerate the giving over of future favours to this small sectional bureaucracy and the small number of people in the Northern Territory. There is no need for it. The people of the Territories are entitled to and will get proper representation in this House. They are not entitled to representation until their numbers are 10 times what they are now. Even then there will be the constitutional impediments to which I have drawn attention. 
The point made by my friend the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  is worth taking up. I think that my friend the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  has completely misunderstood what he was trying to say. He was not advocating a senator for Antarctica. 
Consideration interrupted. 
Progress reported. 
In the few moments that remain I want to put on record my support of the views put forward by the honourable member for Ryan  (Mr Drury).  They are views which I think deserve the close attention of the House. I know that the time for debate is very limited, but there are certain things which follow from what the honourable member for Ryan has said and to which I think attention should be drawn. The first is that this House should inform itself of these matters and be able to spend some time in debating them. There are 2 aspects for debate. Firstly, there is the double standard which, unfortunately, is applied throughout the world in this regard in that what is done by a communist country is condoned but what is done anywhere else is exaggerated and condemned. Secondly, there is the more important aspect of the religious persecution itself and the fact that the communist world not only is opposed to religion and is the enemy of religion but also, having developed under the precepts of Lenin which are followed very exactly, is engaged in a campaign of the most effective indirect suppression of religion while at the same time boasting of some kind of spurious freedom. This is a matter which the House should be prepared to debate at length and to which it should be prepared to devote some time to exposing. Are you about to indicate to me that my time has expired,  Mr Speaker? 
When the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  was speaking to this clause last night I think he seriously misunderstood the position which had been taken up by my honourable and learned friend the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen).  The honourable member for Moreton did not, as I understand it, in any way advocate that senators should be appointed to represent the Antarctica, Heard Island, etc. What he was doing was to use a form of argument which is known among logicians as reductio ad absurdum. The honourable member was trying to show the ultimate consequences of the kind of thing that was being put forward by the Government. 
If a Territory is to have senators  then  why should not the smallest Territory have senators if size means nothing? But the size does mean something. There is some kind of reasonable ratio of size. When I look at the Bills which are before the chamber for cognate consideration, I think that the Government has very rightly arranged for proper representation for the Australian Capital Territory in this House. Previous governments did this. Because the population of the Australian Capital Territory has now increased it is entitled to have 2 members in the House of Representatives rather than one because it is a fair share in relation to the number of people and the number of electors in the Territory. The numbers are important. But when it comes to the Senate the Government seems to forget this altogether and says that the numbers are not important. When my friend the honourable member for Moreton spoke of this he was showing that if we adopted  the  Government principle that numbers were not important then every Territory would be equally entitled to have its own representatives in the Senate. This is the reductio ad absurdum. Tt shows the consequence of following out the principle which the Government has adopted and it is an absurd consequence. My honourable friend from the electorate of  Moreton  was, as T take it, simply pointing out the absurdity which followed from the adoption of the prin ciple or should I rather say the lack of principle in the proposals which the Government was putting forward in regard to this Bill. 
This is not just a trivial matter. We pointed out earlier in this debate that the disparity between the various States in representation in the Senate in accordance with the number of people in the States, all States having equal numbers of senators although they have great differences in population, arose from a federal compact and we paid this price as the price of federation, lt is not something which we should otherwise willingly have paid but the compact has been made. It should be honoured and it will be honoured. But why should we saddle ourselves with new inequities? Why, for example, should the Northern Territory with something like 90,000 inhabitants have 2 senators which would mean one senator to 45,000 inhabitants while New South Wales with something like 4* million people has 10 senators which means one senator for 450,000 inhabitants? Why should we confer on the Northern Territory 10 times the right of the people of New South Wales? It does not seem reasonable at all. As a representative for New South Wales I do not see why this principle of the State compact should be violated in this way. 
This is particularly important because of the system of proportional representation which we have for the Senate and which makes the Senate equally divided or nearly equally divided between the political parties. Between the major parties the majority in the Senate is never very great one way or the other. If you were to put in the 4 anomalous senators they would not be senators, they would be representatives. If you were to put in these 4 anomalous territorial senators - call them what you like - then it may well be that they would cut across party lines and because of their very coherent sectional interests they would be able to gang up and swing the whole balance of the Senate as between the major parties. Is this Government going to put the destiny of Australia in the hands of these small sectional groups which are not like the rest of Australia? After all, Canberra is not a general cross-section of the Australian community and neither is the Northern Territory. Are we going to put the Australian destiny in the hands of these small sections? I would say that this would be a quite unreasonable thing to ask the Australian electorate to do. There is no doubt in my mind that whereas the Government is endeavouring to curry favour with these small sections it is at the same time doing so at the price of the electors of Australia as a whole. Whereas it thinks it can get a little sectional advantage it will find that it will get a major disadvantage which will not be sectional because the rest of Australia will not like to see its rights taken away and concentrated in these small sectional interests. 
There is one question of principle which I think should be brought forward when one speaks of the disparity in these numbers. This is something which is ruining the authority of the United Nations. The authority of the United Nations is ruined very largely because of the equality of the voting power which is exercised by nations which have only a few hundred thousand people as against nations which have a few hundred million people. For example, why should India have only the same voting power as Fiji or some country like that? This is not reasonable. It is the kind of disparity - the reductio ad absurdum - which we have seen in operation in the United Nations today which is destroying the authority of that world body on which the peace of the world, and I would say the continued existance of humanity, so much depends. This matter which is before the Committee now is one of quite high principle. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 4 (Representation in the Senate). 
I rise tonight because this is probably the last opportunity on which I can say something in summary about the events of the past few months. We know that when this Government came to power it did many things by administrative action. Some of these were farreaching things for which there was no mandate. Since that time there has been a gradual sense of disillusion coming over the community, partly because the truth was realised that this Government was under the control of outside forces. Some honourable members may have seen the appearance of the television program Federal File' last Sunday of a  Mr Hartley  - he is a senior member of the Labor organisation - who quite openly boasted that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the Government here would be compelled to do the things which the trade union officials, unelected by anybody except their members, told them to do and that they would decide matters of the foreign policy of Australia. 
There has been disillusion also because of the veering to the left of the Government which was not in the mandate it received from the people and about which the people knew nothing. I am sure that the result of the Victorian election, which would be the pattern in other parts of Australia, measures the amount of the popular disillusion with this Government, which is a temporary Government. It no longer has popular support. But tonight I want to refer to the things which have happened inside the House and the way in which the House has been hustled by the Government. Bills have been going through in succession without proper debate in this House. Some of them have had no Committee debate at all because the guillotine has been applied to them. The Government has not allowed them to be debated in Committee. 
My concern is not just with the number of Bills but with the importance of some of them. Far-reaching Bills such as the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill, the Pipeline Authority Bill, the Prices Justification Bill and the 
Seas and Submerged Lands Bill have been put through this House without Committee debate or with only very inadequate and incomplete Committee debate. This is an absolute scandal. Some of these Bills are very far reaching. Some of them have been very badly drafted. I am reminded of the line in Aristophanes In regard to the conduct of another man - it would be well known to honourable members 

<graphic href="084131197305304_85_0.jpg"></graphic>

He churned out Acts of Parliament that sounded like pop songs. 

<graphic href="084131197305304_85_1.jpg"></graphic>


 - Mr Speaker, I thought that your scholarship would be quite adequate to meet that contingency. 
I can assure you that the line is one from Aristophanes and is therefore entirely in the best parliamentary tradition. 
The concern is not just with the number of Bills but with the importance of the Bills. We have had a flood of legislation. One Bill was brought in here, apparently for immediate passage. There is not only the question of Bills but also the question of bad faith in the House. Honourable members may remember that I introduced a private member's Bill. It should have been voted on on non-party lines if there was any good faith. But no, honourable members were not even allowed to read it. It was killed by a Caucus vote which had been predetermined by the Government. Yet the Government says 'At least we are allowing a vote on your private member's Bill' when all it has done - even the Minister at the table obviously had not read it - is decide to kill it. This is the kind of bad faith, hyprocrisy and pretence that is characteristic of the way in which the Government runs the affairs of this chamber. 
Let me refer to the questions which the Prime Minister has answered, or failed to answer, at the table. A few moments ago the honourable member for Henty  (Mr Fox)  detailed one of these instances. I suppose that the polite thing to do is to call the Prime Minister's replies evasive. That is a polite word and, as you know,  Mr Speaker,  it is a parliamentary word. I will refrain, because of you, from calling them deliberate lies. 
No, I cannot use the words I would like to use. 
Yes,  Mr Speaker.  I am telling you that I will not describe them as lies because that would be unparliamentary. But if they had occurred outside this chamber I would describe them as outrageous lies and prevarications. 
He is a big man, at least in stature, and he is, as you say, a big fibber. I come now to the serious matter of the violation of pledges which have been given by the Prime Minister at that table. The Prime Minister broke his word to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  in regard to the amendment to the States Grants Bill. He did break his word. I heard it. I heard the incident at the table. There is no doubt that the Prime Minister is not a man of his word, and the country is now starting to understand that it has elected- 
I will say that the country, now knowing what is the character of the Prime Minister, regrets- 
The country is coming to regret what it has done in putting him into office. I will not go further than that out of respect for the Chair. But I think that the result of the Victorian election shows the change of heart in the country. It is not just a question of the way in which this Parliament has been hustled in regard to the debates that have been brought on and the inadequate consideration that has been given to important Bills; there are also the sins of omission, and they are very many. Most important matters have not been debated. I referred a moment ago to the new orientation of Australia's foreign policy to the left - leftwards all the time. Yet there has not as yet been a major debate on foreign policy in thi? House. I am told that there is to be a token debate of an hour or two tomorrow. That is not enough. It is only a token and it does not meet the realities of the situation. 
Then we have had all the brouhaha of the nuclear tests. That is fair enough but we want a debate in this House. The Government thinks that the matter is important enough to send our Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  overseas to stir up the International Court of Justice, but there has not been a word mentioned in this House. It is important that this House should remain the centre of government. After all, the Government holds office because it is responsible to this House and has a majority in this House. But the Government has treated this House with constructive contempt in this manner. 
Like the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn),  I am disappointed that measures of this complicated character are brought in at the last moment. These are very extensive amendments. I was surprised that ai though the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  was speaking to the amendment he moved, actually most of his speech was devoted to matters outside the amendment. I will be coming to those matters later. When the matter of the Pipeline Authority being a common carrier is brought before the Committee - the Minister mentioned this at length - I will be reminding the Minister of what he said in his second reading speech. He said that the Authority would have the role of a common carrier. We will be putting this on the line when the matter of the amendment from the Senate relating to the common carrier aspect is before us later this afternoon. I mention this in passing. 
I turn to the amendment before us. Again I say that this is something which really raises the most complicated and complex questions. I am not in a position to take a final view on this at the moment because, in common with other members, I received a copy of the amendment only this morning and I have not had an opportunity to consider all its various implications. There are 4 clauses of the amendment. I think the first is fairly superfluous. The Minister spoke of the continuity of gas supply free from impurities. This may be a matter for the Authority; it may be a matter for the owners of the gas. I agree entirely with the view put forward by the Minister that the operation of the pipeline must have regard for the quality of the gas delivered into it and the fact that no deleterious substance should be introduced. I believe that the technical advice that he has given to the Parliament, however, is to some extent misleading, and I wish to come to this later when the relevant amendment is before us. But I agree with the principle that the operation of the pipeline has to have regard to the quality of the gas introduced into it from time to time. 
The next amendment, which is the substantial one, relates to the uniformity of price throughout Australia. Admittedly this is attractive, certainly at first sight. It has one or two difficulties, and the main difficulty in my mind is that it will operate quite effectively against a program of decentralisation. This is a substantial point, because the new industries which may come into Australia may depend upon supplies of gas at a low cost. Let me put this as succinctly as I can. There will be a big shift in the petro-chemical industry, whose main base is in the United States, and that shift will come about because the supplies of feed stock - natural gas - in the United States are rapidly dwindling and will shortly diminish significantly. Under those circumstances the petro-chemical industry at present so largely based in the United States will find other locations in the world. One of those locations might well be Australia but for Australia to be chosen as against situations in North Africa, the Middle East or wherever else gas is available, it will be necessary for the feed stocks to be available at a reasonably low price. This cannot be done unless the industry is situated near the gas fields and does not bear transportation charges. 
I am right with the Government in its desire to maintain for Australia adequate supplies of natural gas. At the present moment we have no idea how big our fields may be. We know that they are of a very significant size, and that may well condition their use for purposes other than Australian consumption, but I think it is probably, not certain, that exploration in the future will show our resources off-shore to be vastly greater than those which are at present proved. If that be so, and only if that be so, Australia may be one of the bases for a major world petrochemical industry in the future, and I am inclined to think that we would be unwise to do anything which would prejudice that possibility. I say that, making the reservation all the time that if these extra reserves of gas arc not proved we should not become the base for a petro-chemical industry looking to export markets. It all depends on something which I believe to be probable - the discovery of very major extensions to our gas reserves. I think this is very probable but not certain. 
It has been said that the policy of uniformity of the price of gas in Australia is equivalent in a way to the past Government's policy on the uniformity of petrol prices. I think this is misleading because it depends upon the ratio between transport costs and total costs. When that ratio is low, not for the outlying areas but for the major sources of consumption in Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide or wherever it may be, as it is for petrol, you get one thing; when you get a high ratio, as it will be for gas, you get another. Yet, as against that, there is another kind of consideration. Once the decision has been made that the pipeline be of a certain diameter and the pipeline is in there may well be a case to be made out for writing off some or indeed the major part of the capital charges and passing gas through for Australian industry and home consumption at a transportation cost which ignores most of the fixed charges which have been incurred. 
But again, when we are considering the best diameter for the pipe and the nature of the capital charges which should be involved it may well be that this is relevant and that the policy announced in paragraph (e) of the amendment will prejudice a proper economic decision as to the diameter of the future pipeline. All these are very complicated matters. I do not put forward any solution. Indeed, all I put forward is that at present these matters are so complicated that when they come up for consideration this first time, and with only a few hours of the session left, it is impossible for us to have any rational decision taken on the matter at all. 
I feel that the Government is very wrong in bringing in this kind of complicated amendment - far reaching, may be good, may be bad, but incomprehensible - at short notice. It should' not be brought forward at this present time. I have simply endeavoured to illustrate some of the complexities involved. I do not want to indicate that I know my way through this complex jungle, but neither does the Government and neither does anybody, I believe, in this Chamber because these matters have been brought down as an afterthought and at the last moment. 
In speaking to the motion, I want to point out the conduct of the Government during the Committee stage. On 2 occasions the gag was moved- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes&gt;Order! The honourable member will be out of order if he debates the proceedings of the Committee at this stage. 

I beg your pardon,  Mr Deputy  Speaker; I think you are wrong there. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister and relates to the Government's action as recently announced by the Attorney-General in licensing additional persons for the civil celebration of marriages. I ask: Is this action, which on the surface seems reasonable enough, in fact an episode in a subtle campaign by the left wing of his Party to reduce the significance of all forms of religion by taking over more and more of the traditional functions of the Church? Is this action in relation to marriages in parallel with the attempt to divide and destroy the independent school system in which his Government is currently engaged? Is there a substantial faction in his Party which accepts the Leninist dictum that 'religion is the opium of the people' and adopts the Leninist tactic of attacking religion by snide and indirect methods because, as Lenin said, religion is too strong to be destroyed by direct and open attack? 
It seems strange, almost to myself, that I should be speaking tonight on a subject of tremendous importance in this adjournment debate when few will listen and perhaps my words will have no effect whatsoever. Nevertheless I think these things must be said. I believe that the present urgent events make it necessary that they should be said now. What I say now I hope to have an opportunity to repeat in this House and elsewhere, and I hope that other people may also find some capacity to support it. The primary duty laid on this Australian Parliament is the duty of ensuring Australia's security. Without this everything else we say about our prosperity and standards of living means nothing. If we fail in this duty we fail in everything. I shall mention 2 things that happened in this House' today. Firstly, when a statement on foreign affairs was made no opportunity was given to debate it. It was obvious that we in . this House were not to be given an opportunity to express our views. 
This is not a point of order; it is a deliberate attempt to interrupt. 
Thank you,  Mr Speaker.  That was a very unwise intervention by the Minister. 
Thank you. The second thing that happened in the House, and I make only a passing reference to it, is that we had a defence statement which virtually set out the liquidation of any effective defence capacity. What is the situation in which these things have occurred? First, in Australia's immediate neighbourhood the situation has deteriorated almost beyond belief. The domino theory was ridiculed. The only trouble about the domino theory was that events are verifying it, but nobody wants to look at the facts and nobody wants to listen. Already the security which we thought we had on our northern frontiers seems to be vanishing. Our friends, the friends on whose support we could have relied in the past, seem now either reluctant or powerless or alienated. Britain and the United States of America in a sense seem paralysed in this sphere. France is the object of our execration. Australia's defences seem weaker by this. At the same time boiling up over the northern hemisphere there seems to be the risk of insipient famine such as we have not seen for many decades - a famine which no doubt, if the seasons do not improve, will produce problems which we have not yet faced, because the hungry people will not easily endure the sight of our abundance. Australia is threatened. In these circumstances it almost seems as if we had changed sides. Perhaps the word 'almost' is an exaggeration. It seems that we have changed sides. Is this safe? Is there any real security for Australia in believing that the communist forces- 
Yes, I know. I hear from honourable members opposite screams of ridicule. They are coming now. These are the guilty men. These are the people who have persuaded Australians that they have nothing to fear. This campaign of ridicule - it is occurring now - is one of the matters on which the Government has a guilt towards the' whole Australian population. 
I want the House, if it thinks that there is some security in this changing of sides, to look at what happened in Europe last month at the so-called Conference on Security and Co-operation which was held in Helsinki. I want the House to see what this implies. Two things happened: Firstly, the members of the Russian bloc came forward with the highsounding protestation that they wanted to respect the principles of non-intervention, integrity of frontiers and inviolability of neighbouring states. That is fine. But when it came to the point they said: 'This does not imply that what we did in Czechoslovakia was wrong'. Perhaps this is a matter of semantics. They come forward with this hypocritical pretence of believing in the territorial inviolability of their neighbours, but when they refer to their attack on Czechoslovakia they say: 'This is not violation of territorial integrity'. That is what the Russians said at that conference. I want the House to realise the double dealing - the double standard - that lies behind the Russian protestations in this regard. 
The second thing was even more important. At that conference the Russians refused to allow the free world to have any contact with their own people inside Russia. They want to maintain inside Russia the propaganda of hostility - the propaganda that makes war possible - and they will not give us any information access to their people. They want to keep their people ideological prisoners in the same way as they are prisoners behind the Iron Curtain by physical fact. If there is to be freedom of information it must be a two-way traffic. What Russia did at Helsinki in this one matter entirely destroys any pretence of good faith which it may have put forward. It is no use our talking about a detente and a relaxation of tension when all we are called upon to do is surrender. Let us have a detente; let us have this relaxation of tension, by all means. But if there is to be this, it must be without surrender and it must work two ways. We must have the same freedom of access to their people as they have to ours. 
The Russians have their propaganda agents in this country. Their voice is heard. Their voice is vociferous. Their effect, I fear, may be immense. That is well and good. But why should it be a one-way traffic? Why are we not allowed to have a corresponding access to the people behind the Iron Curtain? 
-! prefer the amendment to the motion. I think that the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  has made a point when he says - I think rightly - that there is no reason that a new parliament house cannot be constructed in stages. After all, it is not only buildings in Canberra that have been successfully built in stages. I think of most of the great buildings of the world - in Europe, Asia and the United Kingdom. Most of them - not all - whether they be cathedrals, palaces or colleges have, in fact, been built in stages. I am not keen about either the motion or the amendment because in my view the need for a new parliament house has been grossly exaggerated. I know that the present building is not adequate. There are some things to which every member is entitled and to which the Parliament as a whole is entitled. Every member is entitled to a separate room. I think that we all agree that the kitchens are quite inadequate, that the refreshments room facilities are inadequate and that there are not enough dining rooms. We lack perhaps a proper dining hall for ceremonial occasions. I think we all regret the fact that the Parliamentary Library is inadequate and that some sections of it - the statistical research section for example - are not located in this building at all. I know that the Press is inadequately housed and there is a natural resentment on the part of members of the Press for the lack of facilities which they endure. 
Yet, having said all these things, this building is a building which can be extended. It does not need very much more to make it adequate and the talk that we have heard today about if falling down, leaking and so on, although there is some truth in some parts of it, is very much exaggerated and the defects could be made good. I feel that this building - not good enough in its present stage - can be made good enough and should stand and be adequate for some generations at least. It does have two advantages. 'First, it has an historic connotation. I am one who believes that even these walls, which have been here since only 1927, have acquired some kind of aura of history. There is a tradition about this place already. Are we to scrap it entirely? The fact that it is here, that it is accepted and that it is probably the best known building in Australia are things which should not be lightly discarded, lt is easy to be grandiose and say: 'We want to build something which will be memorable for all time'. If there were such a plan, if there were this upsurge, perhaps one could feel something for it. 
Are we not, in considering this motion, in the position of people who are talking about spending a tremendous amount of money on a frame without having conceived the picture that is to go inside it. The frame is the parliament house - the facilities - but the Parliament is the members. The Parliament is the parliamentary tradition. The Parliament is the institution. I believe that we would lose something if we scrapped this building entirely, even though its historical roots only go back to 1927. It is still the building in which nearly all of the traditions of he Commonwealth of Australia as a Parliament have been made. Who . of us - certainly I do not - in Australia would think of the building in Melbourne, where until 1927 this Parliament met, as having any historical connection with the Commonwealth? The Commonwealth has become an entity. The Commonwealth in the last 30, 40 or SO years has come to mean something, and that meaning is attached to this building. I do not believe that we should lightly scrap it. 
Secondly, and this is something which inclines me to prefer the amendment to the motion although I like neither of them, I believe that this is the best site in the whole of Canberra. It may be that it can be incorporated to some extent with the slope of Camp Hill behind, but this is not an opinion which I have held unreservedly. My opinion has perhaps changed in regard to it. But thinking it over this is, I think, the best site in Canberra. Elevation does not add dignity. The elevation of the hill takes away from scale and the building here on this site is occupying the strategic point in the whole of the concept. The view - as mentioned by an honourable member earlier in this debate - from the front steps, whether by day or night, is probably the best from any parliament house in the world. That view will not be improved by elevating on stilts or on a hill. The view itself is dependent to a large extent on the elevation being small. 
I do not think we want to have too many pretensions about ourselves. An honourable member earlier in the debate - it was the Minister for Housing  (Mr Les Johnson),  if I remember rightly - spoke of how we need research space and how we need to have people around us. I believe that there is some modicum of truth in this. As I have said, I believe that the Library facilities could be expanded, and could be expanded within the confines of this building. However, I do not believe in the added efficiency of Parliament being derived from the multiplicity of parlimentary staffs. A member should be here because he has some merit, not because he can be a mouthpiece for what a staff feeds to him. Some research, yes, but there is no end to the multiplication of committees and research and very often all that happens is that initiative, proper thinking and logic are lost in the multitude of details. I think that members who have had experience of what has been happening around here in the last couple of years would know what I mean. 
In my view the efficiency of parliamentary work has not been improved but has to some extent been impaired by the multiplication of committees, the divergence of interests and the lack of focus. We are doing less because, perhaps, each of us is trying to do too much and, because we are expanding our interests over many fields, we fail to put an effective light of research and logic onto the focussed fields which are necessary if there is to be any progress. Perhaps I can quote - or misquote - Shakespeare by saying that the fault lies not in our staffs, dear Speaker, but in ourselves that we are underlings. If there is any fault, it is not because we lack these grandiose facilities. It is because we ourselves either do not work effectively or dissipate our energies over too wide a field. 
I think we all know the way in which an institution can bog itself down in committees and sub-committees and bury itself in its own activities so that nothing gets done because all its energies are consumed in its own internal affairs. Let the Parliament beware of developing along those lines. It seemed to me that in some of the speeches that have been made here today there was a grandiose concept that members will be much more efficient if they all have their research staffs to feed in infor mation to them. I think that in that multiplicity of counsel there may be in the end only confusion.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  this may seem to you to be irrelevant, but I think that it is germane to this whole concept. Do we really need this tremendous new parliament house at the present moment? 
Yes, I think that most members feel like that. I do not. I believe that the dignity and prestige of Parliament does not necessarily require this kind of great edifice to give to it some kind of phoney authority. Surely there is in this place a real authority. Surely we should not entirely divorce ourselves from the historical connections, recent though they be. We are building them; do not let us cut off even the newest roots which we, as custodians of our parliamentary tradition, may require. 
I prefer the amendment to the motion but I have no keenness for either because I believe that we are being carried away too much by our pretensions and we are losing the reality of the parliamentary authority which, whether we like it or not, is here in our hands. Our authority is real only if we believe it to be real. We have the real policy making power in this place. Let us believe in ourselves. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Luchetti)Order! The time allotted for precedence to General Business has expired. The honourable member for Mackellar will have leave to continue his speech when the debate is resumed. The resumption of the debate will be made an order of the day under General Business for the next sitting. 
I simply want to place on record my reaction to certain matters of principle which arose in the speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Crean).  I think that speech shows what socialism in action really is. The Treasurer very graciously said that if an industry, by reason of the action that the Government has taken, found itself near to extermination and down on its knees, he would do something about it. Is it necessary for Australian industry, whether it be. brandy or anything else, to be subjected to this kind of principle - 'Down on your knees and nearly exterminated'? We have a socialist Treasurer, well meaning but not very well versed in some of the practicalities of life. He is quite willing to use the power of the Government socialistically to bring in measures the effect of which he does not know. He says graciously that if as a result of these measures an industry gets near to extermination - I think those were his exact words - he would like to have a look at it again to see whether the industry which has been brought near to extermination could perhaps receive a little relief from a gracious government. This is what socialism in action really is. This is what the bureaucracy is up to, because even a bureaucracy with the best intentions can often make a mistake. One thinks, for example, of the Karmel Committee report which is before the country and the House at present. Everybody knows that in that report are gross errors of fact, gross errors of judgment and gross inequalities. 
Debate interrupted.  -Mr SPEAKER-Order!  It being 11 p.m., in accordance with the resolution of the House, the House stands adjourned until 11 a.m., Tuesday next. 
House adjourned at 11 p.m., until Tuesday next at 11 a.m., or until such time thereafter as  Mr Speaker  takes the Chair. 
I concur, of course, in the support of the Atomic Energy Bill but I think the House should realise the importance of the potential work being done by the Australian Atomic Energy Commission. It relates not only to the peaceful use of atomic energy; it also must have some implications in the defence field. I would like to say something briefly about the implications in the defence field. I agree with what my friend the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  said about the rather discreditable way in which the Government has switched around its technical advice on some of these matters. I refer, of course, to the abandonment of the National Radiation Advisory Committee which was dissolved because its members refused to be associated with a campaign of deception which the Government was undertaking in this field. I want to make it quite clear that I regard the question of nuclear disarmament as one of the most important questions facing not only this country but also the world. It is a question intimately bound up with the survival of mankind. I do not want anything I say to derogate from the importance of this situation. I do not think that our standing in this area or the overall success of the world campaign for nuclear disarmament has been furthered by a campaign of lies about the effects of nuclear radiation. I speak particularly of the French tests. I am one who hopes for world disarmament and I believe we should be doing everything to get it. However I do not believe that that campaign is helped by lying, and that is what has happened. 
There has been an absolutely ridiculous exaggeration of the radiation effects of the French tests. What has happened is monstrous. It is monstrous that when the Government found that its advisers on the National Radiation Advisory Committee- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! I suggest to the honourable member for Mackellar that the purpose of the Bill is to appoint a person as  Chairman  of the Atomic Energy Commission. The honourable member has been speaking for about 4 minutes. This is not a debate on the use or application of nuclear energy. I suggest that he apply himself to the Bill, which has a very limited ambit. 
I realise that and I want to talk about the importance of the functions which will reside in the Commission which is the subject of this Bill. As such I think that my remarks, with all due respect, would be in order. I am speaking of the functions that this Commission now has to carry out as a result of what has happened in regard to the National Radiation Advisory Committee. 
1 just take this opportunity of thanking the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  for the remarks that he made in closing the second reading debate. They were, I think, remarks which underline the point I was trying to make. As I have said, I take this opportunity of thanking him for those remarks and I hope they will be translated into action and that an opportunity will be given for this House to debate further the very important and the overriding questions which he mentioned in his closing remarks. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
As the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Edwards)  said a moment ago, these are technical measures in regard to metrification and as such they should of course be supported. I am glad that the Government has not seen fit to use the legislation as some kind of sleight of hand and that although there will be an increase in charges of H per cent by reason of the conversion from the standard weights and measures to the metric measures, the Government has openly acknowledged this. 1 am glad that the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson)  has seen fit to say what is the real effect. This is perhaps in contrast to what is proposed in the postal measures where the metrification, I understand, is to be associated with some sleight of hand by the Government so that there will be a hidden increase in postal charges on the introduction of the metric system. I make only passing reference to that matter because I have no doubt that it will be debated more fully when the Government's proposal for increasing postal charges as a result of the introduction of metric measures comes before the House. 
The honourable member for Darling  (Mr Fitzpatrick)  made some remarks which I think were to the point when he spoke about the future of the wine industry. I believe that, in spite of temporary difficulties which may lie ahead for a year or two, the wine industry in Australia has a great future. One technical matter is of some consequence, and that is the introduction of what is called trickle irrigation or the controlled application of water. I believe that the method was developed first in Israel. It makes it possible to grow vines and other fruits with a much smaller total application of water because water is applied by what is known as the trickle method directly where it is wanted and is not spread over a large area. 
This has 2 important consequences. Firstly it extends quite considerably the areas in which horticulture, such as the growing of fruit trees or vines, is possible because the amount of water required per unit of production is very much less. It opens up - this may, I suppose, be of special consequence to the honourable member for Darling - the possibility of irrigation on the loose red sands, particularly those lying in the lower part of the Darling River in his electorate, which have not been considered irrigation sites because they do not have level topography but which, by reason of this new technique of trickle irrigation, might be considered potential irrigation sites. 
The second point which may be of even greater importance is the fact that because less water per acre is used, the dangers of salting and the rising of the water table are very much reduced. These things suggest that the Australian capacity for producing wines may be very much greater than has hitherto been supposed to be the case. But it is no use producing wines unless there is a market for them. Here again I think that we may be passing through a period of temporary difficulty, but the long term future probably is pretty bright because not only in Australia but in other countries, particularly Japan, the tendency to drink wine is increasing, and this is desirable. 
Wine is a civilised drink. There is a future Australian export market for it on a fairly big scale. There is good and bad wine. To some extent it is a matter of established tastes. In new markets, such as those in Japan about which I have spoken, there are no established tastes, and if Australian wines, which are a little bit different from French wines but which in their own way are as good, can form the norm of established tastes, there may be a permanent market opening for us. One of the things that is happening at the present time in small vineyards, to a great extent, is that there is a movement to produce quality wines. Of course, this type of production from small vineyards has been the basis of the immense French wine industry, with the quality wines later expanding into the mass market. One would hope that a similar process would take place in Australia. 
Having said that, let me say that some of the measures now being introduced concurrently by the Government - here again, I pick up what was said by previous speakers, including my friend the honourable member for Berowra - which are contained in this Budget will, unhappily, over the short term at any rate bear very heavily on this industry, especially since so much of its future has been closed off because of the reduction of our dried fruit market which, to some extent, overlaps the wine grape market. One very much regrets that the Government has seen fit to introduce these measures at this time. I feel I cannot let this opportunity pass without making reference to what the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  said in the House last Thursday on this matter when he was speaking of the particular impact of these measures on brandy producers. I quote directly from page 376 of Hansard, where the Treasurer said:   if the brandy industry at some later point of time can show me that it has been battered to the ground as a result of this action, which would greatly surprise me, I will be prepared to hear representations. 
Later - I am quoting exactly from page 376 of Hansard, and I think the House and the country should take note of what the Treasurer said - he said: 
If people find that they have suffered detriment to the point where they are likely to be exterminated, I will be willing to listen to them . . . 
That is what the Treasurer said, and I think he said it in relation to- 
Very well,  Sir. I  am sure that the House and the country will take note of the Treasurer's attitude to the wine industry. Apparently the wine producers have to be ground down to the point of extermination before he will listen to their pleas. This is an appalling instance of what socialism in action really means. I have no doubt that we will hear more of this matter later. I believe that the Treasurer's statement will stand on the record and will be taken as an example of what the Government means when it applies to an industry measures such as it is applying in the Budget. If the producers are ground down to the point of extermination, then the Government will listen; but not otherwise. 
I will leave the Treasurer at that point; no doubt we will hear more of this matter later. Let me just come to the point and speak of the humiliation which the Minister for Immigration, the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby),  has suffered with the introduction of these Government measures. I do not want to labour the point too much, but honourable members will remember that when such measures were suggested earlier the honourable member for Riverina went to the barricades over them.  His  statements in this House at that time no doubt will be quoted in his electorate. 
I did not know that, but I have no doubt that they will be quoted in his electorate. I do not suggest for one moment that the honourable member for Riverina should resign because the Government has made mock of his previous statements. He has been humiliated. I do not think he should resign as a member of Parliament, because the electors will deal with him in due course; but if he is a man of honour I feel that he should resign from the Cabinet. As a Minister who has previously made this a main point and given to his electors absolute pledges in regard to it, he cannot with honour, when this type of legislation is brought into the House, remain as a Minister. I think there should be a call from his electorate for him to resign as Minister for Immigration because what is being put forward in the Government's policy is so diametrically opposed to what he made an issue of and stood on as a point of principle in this House and during his election campaign. He has double-crossed his electors. 
I do not want to take it too far. I want to keep my remarks as moderate as I can. Therefore I conclude on that point. 
It gives me great pleasure to support the very necessary amendment which has been moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden).  The Budget that we have seen is only the tip of the socialist iceberg. If anyone wants to know what is under the water look first at the rest of the Coombs report which is due, of course, for implementation as soon as the Government dares to do it. Look also at the nature of the controls - the socialist and indeed communist control - which are being exercised over this Government through the trade movement and the structure of the Government's own party. But I would say that this is not so much a bad Budget as it is an evasive one. It dodges the problem and it misses the opportunity. It is an evasive Budget. 
First let me say something about inflation, since it is obviously the topic which is in everybody's mind and most people have referred to it. The previous Government was faced with inflationary pressures. It slowed inflation to a walk. It did so in the face of a great deal of criticism from what is now the Government and was previously the Opposition. The Australian Labor Party was against all the measures which enabled the past Government to bring inflation under control. Then this Government came into office. The walk changed to a trot, to a canter, and now perhaps even to a hand gallop, and unless something constructive is done the animal may bolt. In the interests of all Australians this must be avoided. I think it is in this context that the Leader of the Opposition last night made his constructive suggestions regarding a temporary prices and incomes freeze. This has to be all-embracing if it is to be successful but we think of this surely only as a temporary measure. A prices and incomes policy may be necessary now because of the mismanagement of the Government during the past 8 months. The Government has reactivated the forces of inflation and what was well under control when the present Government took over the treasury bench is now almost out of control. The price of that mismanagement may well be that temporarily we will have to accept something which is unpleasant and which is, I think, uneconomic in many ways - a prices and incomes policy of an arbitrary kind. I dislike this prospect. I know that it cannot be implemented effectively without some kind of co-operation from the States but I would not regard it as anything more than a temporary measure. 
These kinds of unpleasant curbs may be necessary in the climate which the Government, through its mismanagement, has created; but we do not want to keep them on for longer than is necessary because they inhibit sound growth, they inhibit the progress of the economy and they represent an incursion into people's freedom of action and the quality of life. The fact that we may have to accept these curbs as a temporary measure is an indication of the way in which this Government's financial policy has failed and is bringing us to the point where unpleasant alternatives seem to be inevitable. 
The Government has raised, through its policy speeches and in other ways, expectations which cannot be satisfied without further inflation. The Government has sponsored industrial disorder. I do not refer just to strikes. I am referring to the organised attempt to cut down productivity through strikes and their effects. Rolling strikes, so dear to the Government, would not occur, whether it be in the Post Office, the building industry, the power industry or anywhere else, if the people who, very often for the worst purposes, were organising them were not confident that they had a great friend in the Federal Government. The fact that the Federal Government is sponsoring industrial disorder is largely responsible for the reduction in productivity. 
I referred earlier to missed opportunities. These come about as a result of the policy of the past Government and as a result of events external to Australia. I refer to Budget figures which relate to our balance of payments on current account. In 1970-71 we had a deficit of $601m; in 1971-72 that amount was reduced to $140m; and in 1972-73 the deficit was replaced by a surplus of $955m. This situation came about partly through bad seasons in the Northern hemisphere raising the prices of our exports, partly through the energy and materials crisis which is occurring in the United States and elsewhere - these are events external to Australia - and partly because of the sound policy of the Liberal-Country Party government in the past. These factors have reversed the deficit and turned it into a surplus. 
The receipts for 1972-73 have nothing to do with the policy of the Labor administration because the receipts flow from contracts which were entered into before the Labor 
Government came to office. Those receipts therefore stand to the credit not of the Labor Government but of the previous Government. This situation formed an opportunity for the Labor Government which this Budget has missed. Because of this change we should have had better living conditions for all Australian people. This Budget should have been one which gave advantage to people throughout Australia. I ask: Who is better off because of this Budget? Who can say that because of this Budget his living conditions have improved? Perhaps a few sections of the community and the odd person could say this but, in general, the impact of this Budget has been unfavourable. It is a Budget of missed opportunities. I repeat that the previous Government's policy, together with chance events external to Australia, created conditions in which there was a tremendous opportunity which has not been taken by the present Gov- 
I refer now to one specific item in the Budget which apparently has escaped attention. I refer to the amount of taxation revenue which has been put into capital works and capital advances. I take my figures from 2 sources - the national income and expenditure figures and the figures showing payments to the States, both of which were tabled when the Budget was presented. I think it would be fair to say that if one adds together the capital items as shown in these tables, grants to the States for specific capital purposes, advances to the States and the Post Office, and things of that character, one gets the amount of capital expenditure which in this Budget is charged against taxation. In this Budget the total of those amounts is $2,749m, which is $ 1,000m more than the expenditure contained in the last Budget. I think it is only fair to deduct from that figure the shown deficit. This results in a net figure of $2,062m of revenue taken from taxation and used for capital works. If the market had been handled properly - heaven knows there was enough inflow of capital to make proper handling possible - it would have been possible, for example, to have personal income tax or to remove entirely most the excise taxes. It would have been possible to do so without disturbing the major fabric of the Australian economy. The Treasurer has missed his opportunity and the people are paying too much in taxes because of that. He has mishandled the loan market. He could not raise money now if he wanted to because of his past policy, his past eminent. inefficiency and his own mishandling of the position. This is a' direct accusation of inefficiency on the part of the Treasurer in this regard. The figures I have were taken from the papers that he presented to the Parliament with the Budget. 
I come now to a matter which obviously concerns me as a past Minister for Social Services and one which I hope to speak on at greater length when the Social Services Bills are before the House. I say just in brief that the pensioners have been short changed in this Budget. The rate of pension has been raised, I think, by some 7 per cent with a possibility of a further similar or nearly similar rise in the latter part of the year. But this is only the same rate of rise as the Treasurer's forecast of the increase in prices and it is probably a great deal less than the real increase in the prices that the pensioner will have to pay for his bread and butter. It is only just about the same as the rise in the average rate of male earnings. We were told at election time that the present Government was going to increase the pensions rapidly until they came to 25 per cent of average male weekly earnings. It does not look as though' they will ever catch up at this rate. The pensioners have been short changed on their rate. What about the pensioners getting supplementary assistance, the most deserving or certainly the most in need of all the classes of pensioners? They will not receive anything extra at all from this Budget. Their standard will fall, and they have not yet had to meet the impact of the rising prices which will occur through the Government's increases in indirect taxation in this Budget. 
I come to the matter of the means test. Here I am afraid I have to make an accusation of bad faith against the Government. I read from the present Prime Minister's policy speech. It states: 
The means test will be abolished within the life of the next Parliament. 
There are no qualifications, just the one sentence. I turn now to the Treasurer's Budget Speech. He said this: 
We have promised to abolish the means test on age pensions payable to residentially qualified persons 65 years of age and over within the life of the Parliament. 
That is the small print which was not in the Prime Minister's policy speech. I do not cavil at the statement of the Treasurer. His phrasing is exactly the same as the phrasing I used when I was the Minister for Social Services. I think that what the Treasurer said is probably fair enough. But it is not what the Prime Minister said. It is not the pledge the Government was elected on. It was elected on a lie, and here it is in black and white in the Prime Minister's speech. The Prime Minister said nothing about the small print. The Prime Minister's speech is a lie and the Treasurer- 
Let me withdraw them. Just let me put on record- 
I have withdrawn them and I put on record what the Prime Minister said, and it is in print in his policy speech, and what the Treasurer said and it is in print in his Budget Speech. The two cannot be reconciled. Either one of them is a lie. I do not know which one it is but the 2 statements simply cannot be reconciled one with the other and that stands as a fact. There is a socialist framework behind this Budget. It is a framework of bureaucracy. Again I remind the House of the words of the Treasurer, spoken in this House only last Thursday. When talking about the taxation program of the Government which is in the Budget he said this: 
If the brandy industry at some later point of time can show me that it has been battered to the ground as a result of this action, which would greatly surprise me, I will be prepared to hear representations. 
Later he said: 
Some of the Government's proposals will not begin to have impact until later this financial year. If people find that they have suffered detriment to the point where they are likely to be exterminated, I will be willing to listen to them. 
The quote is exact. He said, '. . . to the point where they are likely to be exterminated'. This is the kind of criterion which the Government uses. This is its standard of conduct. When the impact of these proposals starts to bite later in the year it will listen if someone is likely to be exterminated. One has to be battered down to the ground before one will be heard. This is bureaucracy in action. This is socialism in action. There are many other things that I should like to say, but I just summarise by saying that this is a counter productivity Budget. The Government proposes to kill the goose that lays the golden eggs but it does not propose to ask the pensioners to dinner. 
I was not, as it happened, in the House earlier today at the time when the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  made the explanation to which he referred a minute ago, but 
I was in the House when he made the original statement. I have checked what was reported in the daily Hansard- 
 I will just say that the daily Hansard is correct. It records exactly what the Minister said. I am not reviving a debate. I am raising a question which is of great interest to you,  Mr Speaker,  and that is the rights of honourable members to alter their speeches in Hansard. This is a most serious matter which concerns you as the  Speaker  and the custodian of this House. I do not have the advantage of knowing what the Minister said earlier in the debate tonight. I do not have that advantage. 
1 draw your attention to this instance,  Sir, because  I did hear myself the Minister using those words. To the best of my recollection the daily Hansard is correct. I think that there are ways and means of verifying this. Everybody knows that when an honourable member has made a slip of the tongue he is entitled to correct it. Everybody knows that in matters which do not go to substance honourable members are entitled to make corrections. But when an honourable member has been correctly reported and his remarks have been printed in the daily Hansard I do not think that he is entitled to make an alteration of substance without reference to you,  Sir, and  the House. I will not pursue this matter further at the present juncture because obviously now that the matter has been brought to your attention you will make inquiries and when we meet again on Tuesday week you will be letting the House know the result of those inquiries. So I drop that matter at the present moment. 
I now wish to refer to the question of the second Sydney airport which seems to have had a certain amount of publicity lately, following upon the Government's announced decision to site the second airport for Sydney in the area of Galston Gorge. I regard the siting of the airport in that area with some horror because I believe that the areas around 
Sydney should be preserved, whether they be in the Galston Gorge area or elsewhere. I understand that the State government is suggesting that the second Sydney airport be located some distance from Sydney. That being so I want to make a concrete suggestion which I believe has already been made by certain people in the Hornsby area. It seems to me that if the airport is to be displaced from Sydney the correct place for it is Canberra. Canberra already has the prestige of an international capital, and this is where an international airport should be. It also has the advantage of being on the direct line between the two great cities of Sydney and Melbourne. Therefore an airport here, if displaced from Sydney, would give the maximum service. 
I see the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  slumbering quietly on the front bench. If I might say so, he is unmoved by my eloquence. 
Yet tonight he said he heard me say things. 
I take very hardly the actions of the Minister. I heard distinctly what he said and I am prepared to testify that Hansard, to my recollection, is correct - Hansard stands as my witness: It may be even that there is a record of this on the tape in the Hansard office. We shall see. No doubt you,  Mr Speaker,  as the custodian of the rights of this House, will look into this. Let me return to the point I was making when I was interrupted so frivolously and unworthily by the Minister for Services and Property. The airport at Canberra is unsatisfactory. It is being lengthened at considerable expense and even then it may not come up to international standards particularly as a result of the fogs which sometimes descend on it. I am not going into these technical matters at the moment. I believe there was a proposal to construct an alternative airport to the northwest in an area known as Mulligans Flat, but on further examination this proposal was dropped because it was found that Mulligans Flat did not offer conditions very much superior to those at the existing Canberra airport. Then a site was found about 20 miles from 
Canberra in the vicinity of Bungendore which does measure up to all the criteria and on which a first class airport could be constructed. Since Bundendore is on the rail line one of the things that we could look forward to - not immediately but perhaps in 10 years time - would be the improvement of the rail service between Canberra and Sydney via Bungendore so that the time of journey would be reduced to a reasonable proportion. I know that the Sydney-Wagga track, considering the density of traffic which it carries and its potential for carrying traffic, is probably the worst aligned stretch of railway in the world. The grades are bad; the curves are bad. I know that the terrain is difficult, but it is not as difficult as all that. With the technical advances being made, such as the advanced passenger train in Great Britain and things of that character, it would not be impossible - it would, I think, be desirable - to improve that stretch of line from Goulburn to Sydney at least to the extent that trains could average 75 or 80 miles an hour or even more. This may involve very large expenditure but I remind the House of the tremendous potential importance of the MelbourneSydney rail link. I also remind the House - and I can claim to be familiar with that line - that in view of the carrying potential of the line it is probably the worst aligned railway line in the world. It does merit a great deal of improvement. If this is so it might perhaps fit in very well later on - perhaps not now but in 10 or 15 years time - with the establishment of a major international airport in the Bungendore area to serve Canberra and to become the second airport for the SydneyMelbourne complex. After all, Canberra is the capital of Australia. Already it is a large and growing centre of population and already it generates a tremendous amount of air traffic both internally and internationally. I would hope at some time later when there is more time for debate to develop this matter further. 
A few moments ago the honourable Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  said that I had at one time advocated the location of Sydney's second major airport at Duffy's Forest. That is not so. 
This afternoon honourable members witnessed a very remarkable demonstration outside the Parliament. I have seen many demonstrations here. This was one of the largest and, I think, one of the most genuine that has taken place. In the past when there have been large numbers of people at demonstrations very often you see the same faces and you know that these are people who are here not because they believe in a cause but in order to demonstrate. They are reinforced by local cheer squads from Canberra. The demonstration this afternoon was not like that. It was a demonstration composed entirely of genuine people who came here to Canberra. They were not the normal crowd that has been involved in other kinds of disturbances. They were here because they had a genuine case. They were determined but orderly. I am afraid they did not have an opportunity of putting their case to Ministers who, with one reluctant and late exception, refused to have anything to do with them and who would not even see their spokesmen except, as I have said, for that late and reluctant exception. 
I appeal to the Government and to the members of the Government party to see that this demonstration was not in vain and that some notice is taken of these people who have a genuine and I feel a good cause. I know very well that a decision has been taken in this matter already. I look at the Press release of the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Mr Charles Jones)  of 28 August. It starts off with the bald phrase: 
Galston has been chosen by the Australian Government to meet Sydney's airport needs for the 1980s. 
I see no reason to quote the rest of that statement. But looking at it, there is no doubt that the Minister says that a definite decision has been made and the only thing in question is the details of how to carry out that definite decision. I look also at the text of the interview which the Minister gave on the Australian Broadcasting Commission program 'This Day Tonight' on 28 August. Again he was quite definite. The interviewer,  Mr Carleton,  asked him: 
Is it quite definite it is going to be at Galston? 
The Minister said: 
The decision was we would locate the second one at Galston. 
The interviewer said: 
This committee will not be looking at alternative sites or anything like that; it is definitely Galston. 
The Minister said: 
Galston is the site. He went on to say that if he were at liberty to do so he could state the exact position of the proposed airport. I do not want to cloak the position. I realise that the Minister has definitely announced a decision which was made. Nevertheless, in my view it was a wrong decision and I am asking for it to be changed. In spite of the fact that it is a definite decision I ask for it to be changed. There is a technical provision in the rules of the Labor Party which would allow Caucus tomorrow to overrule the Cabinet and the Minister. I ask Caucus to do just that in accordance with the technical power that resides in its members. The matter is difficult, I know, because when this Government announces a decision one never quite knows whether that decision will really be carried out. As was pointed out, suppose Caucus tomorrow decided that the Australian dollar was not to be revalued. If that happened, what would the Government do? The position with respect to the airport at Galston is exactly the same. Nevertheless, the decision with respect to that airport is such a wrong decision that I appeal to the Government to change it even at this late hour. 
The honourable member asks where I would like it to be located. 
That is a very good question. I have stated already in this House that, in my view, no need exists for a second airport in the Sydney area. But a second international airport for NSW should be located in this Canberra area. There are good technical reasons for putting one here. As honourable members know, a site has been selected in the Bungendore district. That site would not cause any interference with any assembly of people. It would be a good site technically and would be welcomed, I think, by people in that area as noise interference would not be a problem and an additional facility of which people could take advantage would be provided. 
People would take advantage of that facility particularly if the airport were correlated - again I remind honourable members that I made this point in the House a couple of weeks ago - with an upgrading of the rail system and the utilisation of the new techniques which would allow rail services at a speed which is not considered customary in Australia but which is quite technically possible even over the terrain of that area. That facility could be correlated with the desirable improvement of the railway line between Sydney and Albury. Certainly the section of that line between Sydney and Wagga is one of the worst aligned railway sections in the world having regard to its present and potential volume of traffic. So I thank the honourable member for his interjection. Yes, there is an alternative - a constructive alternative - and that is the one which I urge upon the Government at present. Even if the change is made tomorrow, as I hope it will be - in which case I think that the demonstrators who were outside Parliament House today can congratulate themselves - a need for vigilance will still exist. A decision to change, made once, can be made again. 
I do not believe that the demonstration would have been as persuasive as it has been if a by-election in the Federal electorate of Parramatta were not pending. It may be for the most unworthy motives from the Government's point of view that the change would be made. That decision might be made not because the Government believes in the need for the change but because it is worried about the outcome of the Parramatta by-election. This motive would be unworthy but, nevertheless, the action taken would be worthy and worth while. I do not think that the Government should be reluctant to take this decision even if the motive behind it were unworthy. But I do say that even when or if the Government does change its decision a need for vigilance will remain. Once the Parramatta byelection is over the Government will be able, if the motive is an unworthy one, to do as it has done so often in the past, that is, short change and deceive those who voted for it. I do ask for this change to be made, but I would point out that even if it were to be made there would be grounds for vigilance because when it made its original decision, which was an off-the-cuff decision, the Government did not really know where Galston was and probably did not even know that the electorate of Parramatta could be affected. The Government has in this instance acted in haste and in ignorance but in a way which, I am afraid, is so characteristic of its other actions. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
At the forthcoming General Assembly of the United Nations, will he arrange for Australia to advocate the urgent collection and publication of all available information regarding: 
the possession by various rations of nuclear weapons and of machinery for their utilisation; and 
the capacity of all nations to produce such armaments now or in the foreseeable future. 
If so, will he also advocate that once such a catalogue is compiled it should be continuously updated. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I am here as surrogate for the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  who, unfortunately, has an engagement outside this House which he has had to accept. The Opposition will most certainly support the Social Services Bill (No. 4) 1973 which gives some increase in social services. This is in accordance with a pattern which, I am glad to say, has been current in Australia over many years that as our prosperity increases and as our standard of living increases social services should also increase. In supporting this Bill I say that many of the things, in fact all the things in it, are things which would have been on my files as the preceding Minister for Social Services. It therefore gives me great pleasure in supporting those proposals. I have said that they are proposals from the files of the previous Government, but they are not necessarily the best selection which we would have made from the files. 
In some ways this Bill does not go far enough. As I proceed I shall try to make that clearer. 
I refer firstly to the proposal made by the Government to increase the basic rates of social service payments. The Government's proposals scarcely keep pace with the increase in the cost of living and, indeed, they do not improve the position of the social service pensioner. The proposals merely keep it static. The nominal increases in rates simply leave the pensioner, in terms of purchasing power, where he or she was before. I do not think this is good enough because it is not what previous Liberal Party governments have done. 
Previous Liberal governments increased the real value of social services. Far less does this proposal measure up to the pretensions of the present Government to bring pension rates quickly into line with 25 per cent of average male earnings. I say this with some reluctance because I realise that the Government has had to cut its cloth in some respects to the money available. The Government, by reason of its financial policies in other spheres, has now run itself into a corner. It has been unable to do those things which are just and, in a sense, the pensioners have to pay for the Government's extravagance and incompetence in other fields. Because the Government has been unable, through its extravagance and 'incompetence, to find the necessary money to increase the pensions as the Opposition would have liked to have seen, the present provisions in the Budget simply keep pensioners more or less where they were and it does not give them any real increase in their living standard. The pensioners, in a sense, have to pay for the extravagance and the incompetence of the Government in other fields. I understand the dilemma in which the Government has been placed. 
I find it less easy to excuse the deceptive and misleading presentation of these things in the speech made by the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden). 
For example, when I look at the table which he incorporated in Hansard I find that most of the increases in pension, the credit for which he claimed for the present Government were granted by the previous Liberal Government. He shows that between June 1971 and June 1972 there has been a great increase in the nominal pension rate. He does not say that the major part of this increase was given not by his Government but by the past Government. I do not want to stress these things too much. There are more important things to talk about. But I think it is illustrative to note that the Government, in its presentation to this House, has adopted deceptive means. I think that the Minister's speech illustrates that. He said: 
Honourable members will note that the largest and most generous yearly increase in pensions in money terms and in percentage rates has taken place since this Government came to office. 
Of course, that is untrue. The biggest increases took place under the last Government. As I said, I do not want to emphasise this too much or emphasise the fact that the supportive services, such as supplementary assistance and child allowances, have not been adequately increased. I speak particularly about supplementary assistance which is given to those on the lowest rates of income. They are the ones who need most and they have had to bear the full weight of the increases in the consumer price index. They have received nothing under this Budget. 
There are some things in this Bill which the Opposition will support. In fact it will support everything in this Bill although it is not necessarily the best selection and it is not necessarily good enough in some fields. I would have hoped that the previous Government would have done something earlier about the double orphans. Certainly it was in our program for this year. In his speech the Minister referred to what had not been done for double orphans, but he forgot that assistance for double orphans is to some extent the proper prerogative of the States. What he did not say was that there is a class of people who deserve even more assistance - that is, the widowers with dependent children. They would have been my first welfare priority in the Budget had I remained the Minister. It is unfortunate that the Government has seen fit not to pay any regard to these real needs. 
However, let me support unequivocably the proposals in regard to rehabilitation. I think that these are sound. These proposals are in line with what we were attempting. The rehabilitation system is one that stands to the credit of the Liberal Governments which in 23 years developed this system. I refer particularly to the work done by the Minister whom I succeeded, the present honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair),  and what happened during the time that I was Minister, when these rehabilitation services were first created and then so greatly expanded. Let me commend entirely what the Government is doing along these lines. I am sure that this is correct. I regret only that it is not tackling the rather fundamental question of invalid pensions and the way in which we must help the invalid pensioner who is unable to rehabilitate himself, and help him in a way which does not penalise him by the loss of his pension. I think that this is one of the real defects in our present social service system. This is one of the things which would have been tackled by the Liberal Government had it remained in power. 
Now let me come to what is perhaps the most disappointing feature of the Minister's statement, and that is what he had to say about the means test. The liberalisation of the means test is different from other social service measures in that it can itself be counterinflationary. This is particularly important at a time when there is a labour shortage and there are avenues of employment open for those who would otherwise want to retire. It is particularly important therefore in the present situation. It is particularly important also in the present situation in which more savings are necessary in order to counter inflationary pressures which the Government, quite naturally and properly, is apprehensive about. Therefore it seems to me that expenditure by way of relaxation of the means test is possible without creating inflationary pressures and is therefore different from other expenditures on the expansion of the social service program. It is to me extremely disappointing therefore that the Government has not taken advantage of the opportunity which is open to it at the present stage. 
The history of the means test is not in accordance with the statement made by the Minister in his speech on this Bill - a statement which was factually false and misleading in its implications. Relaxation of the means test has been a Liberal policy for a long time. The Minister stated that nothing had been done by the Liberal Government. This is entirely wrong. The merged means test, the tapered means test, the relaxation of the free area - all these things stand to the credit of past Liberal governments. While I was Minister, in the last Budget, that is the Budget of 1972, before we went out of office, the Treasurer gave a complete and unequivocal pledge for the abolition of the means test for those aged 65 and over during the coming Parliament. The Labor Party matched this pledge in its election promises. I believe that because of what we did it was forced to imitate this, and it came forward with something which was very like what we had proposed. But if we had remained in office the first steps we would have taken, that is the steps in this year's Budget, would have been vastly greater than the steps which the Labor Party has seen fit to take. It has failed in regard to the means test. To take it off merely at the age of 75 is itself rather derisory. Indeed the goal it is setting itself is quite different from the goal promised to the people in the Prime Minister's policy speech. The Prime Minister's policy speech was quite unequivocal in this. He said: 'We are going to abolish the means test in the life of the present Parliament.' But the Treasurer has said that the Government intends to abolish the means test only for those 65 and over. In other words the Treasurer has made a liar of the Prime Minister. I do not myself disagree with what the Australian Labor Party is doing. I think what it is doing is probably correct. All I am saying is that what it is doing is not what the Prime Minister promised to do. The Prime Minister therefore has been elected to office on a false pledge. 
But this is not the real point. The real point of this Budget in relation to the means test is rather different. This is something which I believe will be the object of major criticism in the course of the next few weeks. The Labor Party's plan is to abolish the means test for those over 75 years of age - small and derisory plan as it is. But it is also a deceptive plan because at the same time Government supporters say that they are going to remove the taxation allowance for aged persons and substitute for it another plan. We have not seen the details of that other plan, but we do have the Treasurer's statement. I have here in my hand the Treasurer's roneoed statement put out from his office in regard to the plan. All I will say is this: If the Treasurer's roneoed statement is correct, this is the most cynical and dreadful betrayal of aged people that I know of. 
The abolition of- the aged persons tax allowance and the substitution for it of something else as outlined in his speech is really something which strikes at the root of the position of all middle income pensioners; that is those who have, for example, superannuation income in addition to their pensions in the $20 a week to $50 a week range. Of course it does not affect the really rich pensioners who will benefit by the abolition of the means test but it does penalise every pensioner in the middle income range. Many pensioners, even those who are getting the full pension including those pensioners who are below 75 years of age will find themselves much worse off under the Treasurer's proposal. This is one of the really dangerous and dreadful things that has been done by this Government. It has done it surreptitiously. The Government has not told people what it is about. It hopes it is going to get away with it. But I can assure the Government that it is not going to get away with it, because we are going to tell the truth and when the tax Bills come before the House in accordance with the Treasurer's roneoed statement, we will endeavour to amend them. If we fail to amend them we will at least let the people know what is meant by the Labor Party. 
The result of this measure is not that the Government has relaxed the means test; it has tightened the means test. Let me take the position of a single pensioner with a superannuation income of $20 a week - that is not much. He would not be a rich man. He would not have paid any tax under our proposals. Under the Government's proposals he will pay a little more than $50 a year. His income will be cut by $50 a year. The Treasurer did not say this. The Minister for Social Security has not said this, but the public had better realise it. Let us think of the single pensioner with an income of $30 a week. That pensioner under the Liberal proposals would have paid $40 a year taxation. Under the Government's proposals he will pay $130 a year taxation. That has not been told to people. They have not realised it. . They have not realised how these proposals will hit the small man. 
That is right. The honourable member for Boothby has put the words into my mouth. The Government has double-crossed the pensioners on the means test. I have .spoken of the single pensioner, but the position of the married pensioner is far worse because in most cases the income will be aggregated in single hands since the income of most of the small people consists of superannuation. Let us look at the position of a married pensioner who is receiving $30 a week. He will pay something like $300 a year in extra tax under the Government's proposal. 
He is not a wealthy man. Let us look also at the position of the superannuation pensioner who is receiving $35 a week. He will pay more than $300 a year extra tax under the Government's proposal. I do not want to talk about the so-called wealthy person. He will not be affected because he never received the benefit of the Liberal-Country Party Government's aged persons tax allowance. There is doublecrossing here; there is a lot of bad faith. I will be producing actual figures and examples of this. The Labor Party, perhaps without knowing it - but I believe it did know it and hoped that it would be concealed - in point of fact has double-crossed the little man, the man receiving $20, $30 or $40 a week superannuation - not the big man, but the little man. 
I thank the Minister for Housing for his interjection. He asks whether I think the tax rates will stay the same, forever. I know that under the Labor Party's plan the tax rates will have to be increased. This is what it is doing in effect. I would like to hope that tax rates will be reduced, but I know that under Labor they will not be. I do not want to go into the future and deal with hypotheticals. I will look at the position as it is now. The position as it is now, on the basis of the Treasurer's roneoed statement, is the most dreadful deception of the small and middle income pensioner. I speak particularly for the small man with an income outside of his pension, probably from superannuation, of from $20 to $50 a week. I am not speaking on behalf of the big man; I am speaking on behalf of the small man. Do honourable members opposite realise what they have done or what they propose to do? I can assure them that they will not get away with it. I can assure them also that the actual figures, based on Labor's iniquitous tax proposals, deceptive as they are, will be told to the country before very long. We will be going into this in more detail when the income tax Bill comes before us. 
The honourable member for Perth helps me. We did propose to make the pension taxable, but we proposed also to retain the aged persons tax allowance. It is not the question of making pensions taxable which is important. The important thing is the way in which the Treasurer, by some underhand trick, has changed the aged persons tax allowance. I beg your pardon, I am wrong. The important thing is the way 'in which he has proposed to change the aged persons tax allowance. I say that because I am by no means certain that the Parliament will allow him to do so.  His  present plans ate so appalling that I do not think the Parliament will accept them. 
I do not know what Treasury advice the Government had in the matter. All I know is what the Treasurer has said in this roneoed statement which he has distributed. It is on that document that I base what I am saying. I take it that this announcement from the Treasurer, a copy of which I obtained personally from his office, is a correct announcement. 
Apart from this factor all sorts of troubles will occur about the provisional tax on these new classes of taxpayers, the aged persons. This tax will not apply only to people over 75. The people I am talking about are all pensioners, women more than 60 years of age and men more than 65 years of age.- All pensioners will be affected. This new impost will apply not only  to  people over 75 years of age but to all people of pensionable age. I believe that the extra taxation collected from these people will be somewhat greater than the $40m which the Treasurer estimates as the cost of removing the means test for people over 75. It is the 3-card trick. The Government has deceived the pensioners and, in particular, it has deceived the pensioners in the small and middle income range who earn between $20 and S50 a week. They are the people who will pay for what the Government is trying to put over the country. 
I do not wish to go into this matter further. I shall be elaborating on it when the Bill relating to the taxation measures is before the Parliament. May 1 say, in regard to the relaxation of the means test, that I regret that the Government has not seen fit to take something else from my files - that is, to carry on with the projected liberalisation of the means test on supplementary assistance. This is one of the things which is really necessary. 
Again I am disappointed that there is no real forward move and no real plan in the Bill that is before the House. It consists of certain proposals which were taken from the past Government. As I have said, the selection is not necessarily the best selection. It is still a selection from proposals which were good. In some respects, it does not go far enough but, nevertheless, the Opposition proposes to support this Bill that the Government has introduced. 
I was interested for a moment in what the Minister for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  has just said about Caucus and the Government. The Government is said to practice open government. We have not yet had officially open Caucus, although I understand that from time to time there is an occasional leak from that secret body. It is surprising that the Minister can talk about democratic control when it is not very long ago that we had a 2-man government. Decisions are made apparently by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  without even telling members of his Cabient. It is only a couple of days ago, or I think even yesterday, that the Minister for Overseas Trade and Minister for Secondary Industry  (Dr J. F. Cairns),  who is unhappily outside Australia, complained that the first thing he knew about decisions that affected his own portfolio was through the Press. They were not even told to him; he had to learn through the public media. There is a certain amount of chaos about this because decisions are announced by the Prime Minister as being Cabient decisions and people act on them, and then it is found that they are not decisions at all. Why does the Prime Minister not say: T have done this, subject to Caucus'? He does not say that. Perhaps it did not matter in regard to an airport at Galston when he made a decision and a decision was announced. 
He made a decision. Cabinet made the decision; he announced the decision on behalf of Cabinet, if you like to put it like that. Then it was found that although it had been announced as a decision it was not a decision at all. It did not matter perhaps in regard to Galston because that decision was capable of being reversed without so much loss to people. In fact in this matter, as with the means test, I am glad that I have been able to give a lead to the Labor Caucus, because that Labor Caucus adopted very substantially what I had brought forward in this House during an adjournment debate just before the last recess about a fortnight ago. I was not in the Labor Caucus but I am glad that it took my advice. It adopted a policy which I was able to put forward in regard to the means test. But I will let that go. 
I come to the matter of interest rates. Apparently the Prime Minister announced a decision. 1 am not certain that it was a Cabinet decision. Apparently it was taken by the Prime Minister or two or three Ministers without consulting the Cabinet. It was announced as a decision. It caused immense movements in the market. Then we were told that it was not really a decision at all because Caucus was going to override it. This sort of chaos in government simply cannot be permitted because it is not to the advantage of Australia. We have to know where we are. However, I say these things in passing. 
Yes. At least we have a Fuhrer who makes the noise of a Fuhrer, but he does not have the resolution of one. This is the worst of both worlds. However, I let that pass. I really got to my feet to say something about the remarks passed earlier in this adjournment debate by the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James). 
Yes, about 'Swan Lake'. I was a little puzzled about this. I do not know whether I should refer to the honourable member as the honourable and learned member for Hunter. At least he has some knowledge of the law. But it is rather strange that he should bring forward a matter like this in the House which can be decided in the courts. He spoke of things being illegal. That was his phrase. Yet apparently the courts have not decided them. As he said in the House, he was not clear on his facts. He said that these are things about which he is not clear. He said that he did not know them exactly. Yet he brought them forward. They are matters which the courts have to decide. If he is absolutely clear about them he can bring them in as a matter for the Government to look at and refer to the courts. But if he is unclear about them surely it is not the function of an honourable member to use the adjournment debate for this purpose. It is much better for him to be in touch with the Minister concerned. He will thus avoid doing an injustice in relation to a matter about which he is not clear. I say that without trying to prejudice the matter at all. I had not heard of it until the honourable member brought it forward tonight. 
But let me say these things on the matter of principle: I think it is only quite recently that the Soviet Union adhered to copyright. Until fairly recently it pirated copyright as a matter of public policy. In a sense the Soviet Union does not come into this country with clean hands in this matter because of its own past history. But where is the copyright? This is a matter of some legal consequence. Obviously the Russian Ballet has some kind of copyright on its own performance, but has the Soviet Union paid copyright to the originators or has it, in accordance with its practice, pirated the copyright of the originators? If it wants copyright on its performances has it paid copyright to the choreographers? Has it paid copyright to the originators? This brings me to the more important thing which I wanted to say. It is quite pathetic that the art forms of the Soviet Union all relate to the past. The Soviet Union seems incapable of producing significant new work. If it does - as in the case of Solzhenitsyn, for example - it represses and censors out of existence those who are most productive of artistic work inside its own border. But generally speaking the art forms which the Russians are trying to bring forward as Soviet art forms are the forms of the past. I mention the Russian ballet - an old imperial form - Russian art, Russian novels and even chess. The Russians profess to excel in chess. The socialist system is a grey system which cannot give satisfaction to its own people, lt is incapable of producing from itself new art - the new forms which are lively and show that in itself it is a satisfactory system. This surely is typical of all Soviet systems. 
We heard today, for example, of the glories of Chinese acupuncture. That is an old art; it is not something the Chinese communists have produced. It is being peddled in Australia as some kind of evidence of the glories of Chinese communism. That is not so. If it be worth anything it is due to the glories of the system which the Chinese communists supplanted. Art does not flourish in a socialist setting. This is one of the things which can be said against all kinds of socialism. It is grey; it is unsatisfactory; it is against the quality of life; it is sterile. The fact is that the Russians, in their attempts to persuade us of the glories of Soviet culture, all the time have to go back to pre-Soviet days in order to have something to put in their showcase to show to the world. 
I speak in support of this Bill. If I have any reservations they will be constructive reservations which I hope will be directed to make work better a plan which I believe contains inherent value. I certainly will not approach this matter in any political frame of mind at all. First let me say that I agree entirely about the importance of voluntary bodies. I will speak in a few moments about what I think their functions should be. When I was Minister for Social Services I did try to upgrade the functions and facilities of these voluntary bodies. I believe that, in their sphere, they can do a job which no government department can do as well. I believe that they have a real place in our social system. I support entirely the concept that they should be helped to fulfil their proper role. 
I do not believe, however, that voluntary bodies can cover the whole field. I do not think that there is perhaps sometimes a tendency to downgrade the abilities and the resources of the Federal Public Service in a field such as this. It is true, I suppose, that there are still many defects in our social service system as there are indeed many defects in any social service system, as far as I am aware, existing in the world. But it is not right to pretend that there is no skill whatsoever - no humanity and outlook whatsoever - in the Federal Public Service and in the relevant departments. I know that the opposite is true. I know that it is true that many departments are involved and that some co-ordination is necessary. That co-ordination primarily is the responsibility of the Government at government level. The Government can get help most assuredly from outside expert advice. I am not trying for one moment to say that valuable help cannot be given, but in the final analysis it is the Government's responsibility to take or to reject advice and to fashion at government level the social services plan. 
It is important that we should help these voluntary bodies to develop. I do see in this a possible danger - I do not say that it is an actual danger; it is a danger against which we have to guard - that the proposed Social Welfare Commission will cut into the field of the voluntary bodies and to some extent impair their successful operation. We should be careful not to kill voluntary bodies by kindness even. We should not short-circuit the functions of the States or local government. I am a little bit worried by sub-clause (vi) of clause 14 (b) of the Bill which states: 
The functions of the Commission are - 
to make recommendations to the Minister .. . 
... for avoiding the duplication of social welfare programs . . . 
I know that it is desirable to avoid that duplication. I know that co-ordination has become, like Mesopotamia, a blessed word, but there is some function which the voluntary bodies can best perform if they are not too coordinated. The advance of a social welfare program depends on experiment. Try this - it may work in this area; it may not work in that area. I would be worried that in the interpretation of the recommendations for avoiding the duplication of social welfare programs there might not be inherent some kind of brake and construction upon voluntary bodies and we might even find the position where worthwhile experiments are not being pursued because they may not commend themselves to the Commission. It is, of course, natural that co-ordinators should feel that all the wisdom is in their court, that they know everything. This is a natural human failing. Very often the best system arises from some kind of analogue of a higgling of the market with people trying things. Some will fail and some will succeed. But in this area of voluntary experimentation, which we should not try to replace because we might say it is duplication and wasteful effort, lie the seeds, I am sure, of a great deal of social advancement. I had the opportunity of listening to  Mrs Marie  Coleman on 'Monday Conference' and of taking particular note of what she said. May I say that I have the utmost regard for her judgment and integrity and I believe that she will be a most excellent head of the Commission. Nothing that I say is meant in any regard to diminish the appreciation that I would have for her work in the past or her potential for the future. 
When one looks at the functions of these voluntary bodies I think one comes to this conclusion: First, the Government, through its system of social services - age pensions, family endowment, widows' pensions and the other payments that it makes - should be able to make certain that nobody in the Australian community is left below a certain level of poverty. That certain level must rise and should rise continually with the growth of the productivity of the total Australian community. I do not look on this as something static. I look on social services as permanently unfinished business because always we can be improving them as the standards in the community as a whole rise. But the things which the Government gives have to be given in accordance with the book. Very big sums of money are involved and there are very big privileges. It is necessary that they be properly policed not only in the interests of the taxpayer but also in the interests of maintaining a spirit of incentive and integrity in the community as a whole. 
The things which are given by the Government have to be given by the book, and I think there is no way out of that. But beyond that always, whatever is given by the book, there will be deserving sections of the community. There will be people whose needs are not covered by the overall provisions of social services. It is for those people that the voluntary body is specially adapted. This is one of its functions. One of its functions is to meet the exceptional case which cannot be met by the rule of the book which the Government must follow. It is therefore, I think, not a bad thing for the Government to use these voluntary bodies as its agents, to subsidise them, to help them to expand their services so that they can do more and do things more quickly than they would be able to do without governmental help. It is this kind of thing which we inaugurated, for example, in our aged persons homes scheme where we put in two-thirds of the money, leaving some responsibility to the voluntary body but using government money in order to accelerate the necessary program. In this way we bring in the human factor. 
If we are talking about the relief of people who through some unforeseen emergency or some unfortunate occurrence find themselves in need, it is much better for them to be helped by a voluntary body, with Government help perhaps, and with responsibility - and let me pay a tribute as sincere as I can to a number of our voluntary bodies for their sense of responsibility. It is their function, I think, to help these exceptional cases which cannot be met by the rule of the book. What the Government does is not charity; it is the right which the citizen has. Whether it involves the age pension, the widow's pension or family endowment, it is the citizen's right; it is not charity. But if the individual finds himself in some unforeseen situation, which the Government cannot foresee perhaps any more than he can, that person does need the help of charity. I believe that this is much better administered through a voluntary body with government subsidy and assistance than it would be through a government department. We all know for example that the States have food relief and various kinds of emergency help available, but I am not certain that this kind of help would not be better given through some of the responsible and excellent voluntary bodies which work in the field. 
The other function of a voluntary body is to carry out experiments. The Government can initiate experiments. It can do things and provide the money. But I think that the Public Service as a whole is not very well adapted to the experimental approach. Many experiments will fail but it is from the successful experiment that real advances in the social service field can be expected. So I believe that the proper functions of the voluntary body are to experiment and to meet the emergency cases which cannot be met by the book, and to provide the human contacts which a government department cannot provide as satisfactorily. I want to support in every way and to the greatest extent the expansion of the work of these voluntary bodies.  Mrs Coleman  has had a tremendous amount of contact with them. I believe that these are things which really merit government support and, insofar as that is inherent in this Bill, it is a good Bill. 
The Commission will not have executive functions. Its functions are to recommend and, as I have said, the final responsibility of either accepting or rejecting the Commission's recommendations will rest on the Government. 
The Government cannot shrug off that final responsibility; no government should be allowed to shrug it off. No doubt the Commission will be directing its first attention to what I would describe as the residual pockets of poverty which are being investigated by the Henderson Committee which was originally set up under the previous Government. However, these pockets of poverty, acute though they are and although they are very hard for those who are in them, are to my mind not as important as the massive social trends which have to be met. Although time will not permit me to develop this point now, I believe that the most important major and massive social problem which lies before the Department of Social Security is providing help for the young and the forming family, especially in the lower income brackets. I believe that this is the problem which we on this side of the House will be endeavouring to solve. I would regard a matter such as this as being bipartisan and I believe that the present Government, for as long as it remains in office - it may not be very long - would also support a concept such as the one which originally was formulated by the previous Government and which I still regard as the most important social service problem confronting Australia. 
What we have done in the past and what this Government has done has been to a very large extent, but not entirely, to clean up the acute pockets of poverty. We now are faced with the much more massive problem which goes right to the root of our social structure, namely, of help for the young and the forming family and, particularly, help for the young couple at the time of the birth of their first child or in the provision of the matrimonial home which is desirable at all times but becomes, I believe, necessary when the first child is born. I hope that this will not involve the reduction in our living standards which we have been inclined to accept by having an economic system which compels so many young mothers, against their inclinations, to go out to work to support their families. A social system that has this as one of its ingredients is a bad social system and, insofar as we have moved towards this situation, I believe that the standards of the Australian people in the last few decades have not advanced but have regressed. If a woman wants to work, that is her business and her privilege. But we should not have a social system which compels the mother of a young child, for economic reasons, to go to work against her will. 
I know that the Government has appointed a large number of committees. I sometimes feel that it has the idea that if it appoints a committee to investigate a problem, the problem will go away. It is not quite as simple as that, but I hope that this Commission will be a fruitful one. I and, I am sure, all honourable members on this side of the House, will do everything we can to further the work of the Commission, to help it to progress and to try to assist it in avoiding some of the dangers which might be inherent in the abuse of the scheme which the Government has brought forward. But most certainly - I hope I have done it constructively - I support the Bill. 
I would like to bring to the attention of the House something which I think is important. I refer to the movement known as workers' control and what it can lead to if this Parliament and the other parliaments do not take some kind of action in regard to it. This movement which started overseas is not a spontaneous movement. The international com munist parties have sponsored it. In Australia it has taken a European form and I think its nature can be seen from the more or less official broadsheet 'What is Workers' Control?' which is being circulated in Sydney. It states: 
It begins with simple trade union demands for control of hiring and firing, tea breaks, hours, speed of work, allocation of jobs, and so on. It mounts through a whole series of demands (open the books, for example) to a point where, ultimately, over the whole society, capitalist authority meets impasse. 
At this point, which in its general political correlative is described as 'dual power', one reaches a revolutionary situation- 
This is the communist prescription and the tactics which are being employed. I think it is important to remember what a communist means by reformism. Reformism is a term of contempt applied by a communist to those who really want to improve wages, hours of work and working conditions. The reformist, says the communist, is out to make things better. The communist will use reform as a means to create a revolutionary situation. In other words a communist trade union leader when he professes to be working for better conditions is really double crossing his own union and double crossing his own men. This is the important thing still to get across to people. In Australia the Communist Party or parties adopted these tactics aslong ago as 1969. It was only recently that they stepped up the tempo of the work. The Communist Party of Australia - the Aarons group - appointed a man called Denis Freney, a previous Trotskyite, to control the operation. In the communist Tribune' of 17 April last Denis Freney wrote: 
Workers' control demands and tactics as outlined above provide a testing ground today for even greater challenges in the coming years to the power of capitalism and its State machine. They provide a testing ground for what a revolution in advanced capitalist countries means- the taking-over by the mass of workers of their workplaces, of social and cultural institutions, and finally of the whole of society and the State. 
It is in point of fact a communist tactic. I have quoted  Mr Freney  who was the moving spirit behind a conference which was held in Newcastle last Easter and which is reported in the 'Tribune' of 24 April this year. Under the name of Denis Freney it states: 
Newcastle: Institutes or centres for Workers Control will be established in all main cities in Australia, following the highly successful National Workers Control Conference held here on Easter Saturday and Sunday. 
Over 450 workers from all over the country attended. 
The article continues with a report of the communist activity, the communist control and the communist manipulation of that conference. It is there in the communist 'Tribune* for everybody in the House to read. I think it is true to say that at that conference all the factions of the split Communist Party in Australia attended. They all supported the idea of workers' control and I think it is fair to say that they differed to some extent among themselves as to the proper tactics which should be applied in this operation. In particular there was a belief that the Aarons group, the C.P.A., was out to take over control of the S.P.A., which is the Russian oriented and controlled faction of the Communist Party. They professed to believe that they should not disrupt the normal trade union leadership. There was some difference as to tactics but there was no difference about objectives. Again I would like to quote, and I think it is worth quoting, from the communist Tribune' of 19 June last an account of workers' control given by  Mr Joe  Palmada. He said: 
The Left should boldly advance the concept of workers' control and encourage the embryonic movement which brought together over 4S0 delegates at the National Workers' Control Conference in Newcastle last Easter. They should combat and expose the developing theories of workers' participation in management, a class collaborationist theory borrowed from West Germany and being Forcibly propagated by the "new Right' such as John Ducker, President of the N.S.W. Labor Council and the N.S.W. Labor Party. The theories have already taken root in the 
A.C.T.U. business enterprises and represent new moves to enmesh the trade union movement in the capitalist framework. 
I am quoting from the communist 'Tribune'. It is quite clear that the people controlling the workers' control movement, because they are controllers of the so-called controlled, are not out to help the workers. They are trying to betray the workers in order to create a revolutionary situation and to create chaos. The 35-Hour Week Committee concerning the power stations in New South Wales is part of this game. It is very largely under communist control and leadership is given of course by the controller,  Mr Ross,  himself a communist. 
The House can judge how far this movement towards a state of revolution has already gone by what happened last Friday when the Minister responsible for the generation of power in New South Wales was refused normal admission to a power station by a mob of power workers who were perhaps not technically on strike but who were having a consistent program of go slow. I regret very much that it is not appreciated how far this has already gone, how far these people have been able to manipulate the unsuspecting power workers who do not realise what is being done to them and how they are being used as pawns in this revolutionary game by far sighted and unscrupulous communists who are out to double cross and betray their own men. I regret very much that there has been an A.'L.P. surrender to these forces. I regret very much indeed that  Mr Hills,  for example, or  Mr Unsworth,  who are not communists, have surrendered to these men and are taking up their cause, and perhaps without realising what they are doing, have collaborated in this communist plot. I do not put them as communists. I put them as weak mean who have surrendered to the communists and, by so doing, are helping the communists in their game. 
I regret even more that the responsible Minister in this House, the Minister for Minerals and Energy, has himself either surrendered or collaborated. On the evidence of the letter which has been quoted in this House, he gave instructions that there should be cooperation with what he called the 35-Hour Week Committee, which he knows perfectly well is a communist front, and which has already produced this disastrous situation. The blackouts and the chaos are all part of a plan. The sooner this House and the country realise this fact, the better. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Darling) (10.56)- I rise to support a small country newspaper operating in Condobolin and called the 'Lachlander'. This paper is under a brutal and vicious attack by an Orange based company called Western Newspapers Ltd. The 'Lachlander' is about 80 years old and has been operated as a family business by  Mr and Mrs Ryder-Wood  for the past 21 years - in fact, since 1952 when they purchased it from  Mr M.  J. Condon who had been its proprietor for 42 years. It is an exceptionally good local newspaper and, in common with most country newspapers, does the job printing required by the town as well as present local news in pictures and editorials. 
A blatant attempt on the part of Western Newspapers Ltd, a company which operates a chain of newspapers based in Orange, is being made to take over this local Condobolin biweekly newspaper from the present proprietors by methods which I consider highly unethical to say the very least. Taking advantage of a temporary disagreement by the local newspaper with a local organisation, Western Newspapers Ltd has been following its usual tactics which have proved successful in other instances - a threat to move in and to start another newspaper unless the 'Lachlander' immediately sells out to it. Telephone calls and several visits have been made to Condobolin by high officials of the Orange company and  Mr and Mrs Ryder-Wood  have been told that Western Newspapers Ltd is prepared to lose many thousands of dollars to break the 'Lachlander' unless it is sold to them. In other words, sell out or cop it! 
The time chosen for the pressure tactics was when  Mr Ryder-Wood  was sick in Sydney hospital and  Mrs Ryder-Wood  was handling the business on her own. In that time, she received a telephone call from Orange, and a representative of the firm went throughthe town asking business people whether they would advertise in a rival newspaper if it started up in Condobolin. He received a mostly negative reception and, I believe, was advised against the idea. Nevertheless, 2 officials of the company called on  Mrs Ryder-Wood  within a week and threatened to start in opposition if the 'Lachlander' would not sell out to them. A week later another official visited the 'Lachlander' and used the same tactics. Another week later 2 members of the company saw  Mr Ryder-Wood  and adopted the same theme. I have not time to finish remarks. Part of the story is told in the 'Lachlander'. I ask for leave to incorporate that extract from the Lachlander' in Hansard. 
I recall to the Prime Minister a statement that he made at his Press conference yesterday that if the prices and incomes referendum were carried - I hope I quote him verbatim; he will correct me if I do not - 'the same procedure for determining non-wage incomes as the Constitution has always provided for the determination of wages' would toe adopted by his Government. He went on to say: 
Since the Constitution has always provided for the determination of wages, we would extend the operations of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to specified forms of income other than wages. 
Since hitherto the Arbitration Commission has always declared a minimum and not a maximum wage and, indeed, until the referendum is carried may have no constitutional power to declare other than a minimum, not  a  maximum, wage, does the statement by the Prime Minister mean that, if the referendum is carried, he will instruct the Arbitration Commission under his new powers to outlaw over-award wages and payments, or does the statement mean that he will instruct the Arbitration Commission to declare minimum, not maximum, levels for other incomes and allow those other incomes to have over-award incomes. Now, since he has- 
I wish to make a personal explanation,  Mr Speaker. 
Yes,  Mr Speaker.  A few moments ago the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  used the phrase 'in answering a question asked by the honourable member for Mackellar'. With all respect, the Prime Minister did not answer that question; he evaded it. 
I should like to associate myself with 2 remarks made by the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross).  Firstly, he said that an Aboriginal policy in this Parliament could be a bi-partisan policy. I think that this is true. We may differ - I am sure we will differ - in this chamber about the means to be taken to help the Aboriginal people but I do not think there is any difference on either side of the House or, indeed, in any party, on the proposition that we should do everything practicable to help the Aboriginal people. There is a reservoir of good will in this chamber and I should like to extend to the new Minister for Aboriginal 
Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  my best wishes and hope that he will be able to succeed in his portfolio. The second remark of the honourable member for Brisbane with which I should like to associate myself was his phrase that we must discriminate now in this generation in favour of Aboriginals so that in the next or some subsequent generation there will be equality. I think this is the core of our problem. 
In this debate members have spoken of the need to have an understanding of the Aboriginal problems. This is so, and I noted with particular interest in the estimates that are before us the increased grant to the Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies. I know that this body, an academic body, has a world importance outside Aboriginal welfare. That is true. But it has also a tremendous amount to contribute to making a successful policy on Aboriginal welfare because, without understanding, whatever money we spend will be wastefully spent. Understanding can come only from a greater knowledge of the Aboriginal's position, his aspirations, his psychological problems and what must be done in order to help him to achieve equality with other Australians. 
I know that of the increased grant in these estimates for the Institute, a great deal will be spent on 2 projects, firstly, on linguistic study so that the very commendable initiative of the present Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  in making available teachers in Aboriginal languages for primary and infant schools can be more readily implemented. The other matter of major expenditure in the Institute will, of course, be the cataloguing of Aboriginal sacred sites. This, again, I think is related very much to a successful approach to these problems of Aboriginal welfare. 
I advert now to certain matters which were raised in the Senate last night. I think that it is right and proper that I should say something in regard to them. It will be recalled that  Senator Georges,  who is a member of the Australian Labor Party and not a member of the Liberal Party, launched in the Senate a very vehement - if I may say so - attack upon the administration of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. He tried - I do not intend to canvass whether it was with justification - to suggest that a tremendous amount of blame rested on the Department and that the ex-Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Bryant)  had to bear the brunt of the Department's faults. I have no evidence to say whether this is correct but 
I simply draw the attention of the Committee to the very serious charges which were made against the Department by a senator of the Labor Party who apparently had been closely associated with the previous Minister for Aboriginal Affairs and had been associated with some of the matters he was criticising. 
Perhaps the main point of what he was saying was his criticism of what he called the turtle enterprise in the north of Queensland where turtle farming is being undertaken by Aboriginals. This project was initiated by me, I think in 1970 or early 1971, when I was the Minister-in-Charge of Aboriginal Affairs. I did it on an experimental basis because I believed it was something which was well worth following. I did not, at that stage, envisage it on any large scale because I thought that experiment was necessary to ascertain whether large scale implementation was justified. I think, if my memory serves me correctly, that an amount of $30,000  -  do not hold me to that figure but it was something like that - was allocated for the small initial experiments. I believe that these experiments were justified. I will not at this present moment commit myself to saying whether the project will turn out to be viable. I do not know, but I was quite certain that it was a project which had a reasonable prospect of success. 
I will not go beyond that except to say that a call has been made in the Senate for an independent inquiry to be made into what has happened. I think it would be justifiable to defer that inquiry for perhaps a fortnight until 2 things have 'happened; first, until a commissioned report by  Dr Carr,  a world expert on turtles, is available - and I am told that this will be available in about a fortnight - 'and secondly, until the files have been produced in the Senate or in this House. I understand that the new Minister for Aboriginal Affairs proposes to table them and honourable members can then have a look at them. We will then be able to determine the scope of the necessary inquiry. I feel that, on the basis of what  Senator Georges  said in the Senate last night, some kind of independent inquiry is necessary. The scope and nature of it might wait for perhaps a fortnight, but I do not think that it should be indefinitely delayed. I only suggest that the setting up of the inquiry should wait until these other reports and information are available. 
I should have liked to refer to some major matters today but time will not permit me. I listened to the honourable member for 
Hunter  (Mr James)  who made a colourable point when he said that it may be desirable not to go too fast in certain of these matters. I agree with this point. I do not think for one moment that we should be niggardly in any expenditure which can be profitably employed. If the money can be used effectively to help Aboriginal people it should be made available. That is our prime responsibility. However, I am worried about the extent of the money provided in these estimates, not because I think that it is unjustified but because I fear that it is encouraging too much the mentality of the handout amongst Aboriginals themselves and, because we are moving too fast, it may be that we are doing damage to these people. I am not trying to save money; I am trying to help the Aboriginal. It is important that we do not put out the fire by piling on too much fuel too soon. There are many things that I would like to have said. These matters of Aboriginal policy are ones which cannot be- 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Lucock)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I am sorry,  Sir, that  I have to stop at this point. There are many other matters that I would like to have raised. 
I take seriously what the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  has said and I believe that there is a good deal of substance in his alarm at the incursions of liquor among Aborigines in the Northern Territory. I do not think that he has entirely correctly assessed the position, as I will show in a moment, but I do not want to underestimate the seriousness of the problem. In my view, on the whole the position in the Northern Territory in regard to Aborigines is not getting better; I think that on the whole it is getting worse and, unhappily, the reason for this is the great increase in the amount of liquor and drunkenness among Aborigines. The Minister for the Northern Territory  (Mr Enderby)  in a debate on the estimates earlier this afternoon mentioned a number of Aborigines who were in gaol for drunkenness and he said  -  1 felt some sympathy with what he said - that perhaps the recourse to drink was a natural reaction by people who felt that their dignity had been taken from them. I am not at all unsympathetic to the view that he expressed. I can understand how the breakdown in the normal social values among the Aborigines in the Northern Territory has led to the kind of despair which prompts them to take refuge in drink. But whatever the cause, the brute fact remains that this is one of the things - perhaps it is the main thing - which is dragging down the standard of Aboriginal life in the Northern Territory. 
This is not something which is peculiar to the Northern Territory. I think that if honourable members were to look at the history of New South Wales, Victoria or South Australia at the relevant time, 100 years ago, they would find that the same kind of circumstances were operating then. The real point is: What is the correct thing to do about it? I agree with the diagnosis of the honourable member for Hunter that this is a most serious situation. Unhappily, the problem no longer is confined to men. Quite recently, drinking has increased among Aboriginal women - probably, it is the first time that this has occurred in the Northern Territory on any large scale - and this has been correlated with the breakdown in tribal life and discipline. 
The main - not the only, but the main - trouble arises through wine, as the honourable member for Hunter said. It arises not from anything that the publican can do, because wine is generally bought in bottles by people who are sober and it is taken away for consumption outside the premises. So, in point of fact, if one looked in a practical manner at the things that are occurring there one would see, of course, that there is trouble as there is trouble in licensed premises elsewhere. But the main trouble occurs outside the premises. It does not occur in any form which is amenable to stopping by the publican, who sells wine in bottles to people who are sober - and he therefore commits no offence. Indeed, if he refused to sell he would be committing if not a legal offence, at least one which would arouse approbrium in the community because it would be said that he was discriminating against Aboriginal people. The taxis that he speaks about were, in most cases, bringing back drink or back bringing people who had bought bottles of drink. Indeed, as he knows there would be visits to the places where Aborigines are congregated by what are called 'flagon wagons' carrying bottles of cheap wine which, in terms of intoxicating effect, give much more per dollar spent than do beer or spirits. So they go mainly for the cheap wine in bottles. The problem cannot really be controlled effectively and indeed there will not be a great deal of impact on it by anthing that the publican can do. This is a most distressing situation. 
The honourable member for Hunter spoke of the establishment of wet canteens. As he probably knows, when I was the Minister in charge of Aboriginal affairs as an experiment I helped in the financing of a wet canteen. I will not name the place; I think it would be unfair to do so. It was an Aboriginal mission and we put in a wet canteen which was run by the Aboriginal people. In the first stage only a limited number, of cans of beer were issued - it dealt only in beer at the first stage - and the cans were opened so that they could not be taken away and accumulated. What happened afterwards is not known to me by personal experience because I was no longer the Minister and I have not been to the mission since, but I have heard some secondhand accounts - I will not vouch for them absolutely because they are secondhand and, as I have said, I have not had them from official files or from personal experience - that the experiment went very well for a year or so, and then unhappily it started to break down because the Aborigines left the lighter and the restricted drinks and went back to the spirits which they could obtain legally by the bottle. 
I think one of the saddest things about the campaign for Aboriginal rights has been the emphasis which so many professional Aborigines have put on drinking rights. If one looks at the columns of the newspapers one will see reports claiming discrimination against Aborigines because they are not being allowed to drink as freely as does everybody else. Yet when one examines the cases one finds usually - not always, but usually - that this claim of discrimination has been raised against the publican because he has refused to serve Aborigines who have had perhaps a little too much to drink. As the honourable member will know, it is not always easy to ascertain who has had a little too much and who has not. So I do not think that he is being terribly practical in the remedies he suggests although I think that he is spot on when he talks of the seriousness of the disease. That is all I want to contribute at this time. I go halfway with him. I believe that what he has said is important. I cannot go the full way. 
Transport forms such a large proportion of total Australian costs that I think it is something with which we all should be concerned. Of course, from an economic point of view, it should be one of our principal concerns. There are many phases of transport, but tonight I just want to touch on one of them, and that is related to urban transport. I believe that in the future we should put much more emphasis upon public transport than we have done in the past. It seems to me that some kind of vicious circle is involved here. Losses occur on public transport. Then, in order to make good those losses, fares are put up. Patronage of public transport declines. Fares are put up again. And so the whole grievous process goes on. Public transport has or should have a much greater role to play. 
I believe that if we had the courage to break this vicious circle and to put public transport, perhaps in one area to start with and then in other areas, on a proper basis we would improve the efficiency of our whole cities structure. 
I do not believe that this principle should be carried to extremes. We have the spectacle of one of the Ministers of the present Government denouncing all freeways. I believe that the freeway concept has been carried too far and that not enough emphasis has been placed on public transport, but I do not go to the extreme of saying that all freeways are bad. I am afraid that this kind of thinking has infected a certain section of Government policy. This is particularly so when a freeway serves not to bring people into the city but to take people through the city. This is much more important than might appear at first sight. Most cities have grown because they are placed in a strategic position and they are the natural point through which traffic passes. This natural tendency has of course been exacerbated by the fact that in the past roads have been built towards the city centre, but the pure facts of geography, quite apart from the roads that have been built, sometimes reinforce this. Think, for example, of the positions of our 2 chief cities in Australia, Sydney and Melbourne. Both of them lie on positions where there is a necessity for a through route. Traffic from the northern suburbs of Sydney cannot cross the harbour east of the harbour bridge, and in Melbourne the same kind of position appears with traffic from Port Phillip. Even when the new bridge, the one that collapsed, is finally completed and opened we will still have the position in Melbourne where throughways will be necessary not just to bring traffic into the city but to bring traffic through the city. I take the position of Sydney and Melbourne as typical. The same kind of condition might apply to other Australian cities, including perhaps Brisbane and Perth. I suggest that although more attention should be paid to, and more emphasis should be placed on, public transport in the city this does not absolve us entirely from the necessity to build freeways, particularly when those freeways will be used for traffic which has to go through the city to get to some other destination on the other side of the city. 
Before coming to the particular position of Sydney, let me take up the industrial aspect which the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  raised a few moments ago. One of the points about private transport is that in an emergency it is not so vulnerable to strikes as public transport is. Tonight in Sydney the trains are not running because I believe there is some kind of demarcation dispute. Public transport stops and tangles. Private transport, which is not so vulnerable to this vicious strike action, comes into its own. I know that this is a transitory thing, but when we have a government in Canberra of the type of this Government, strikes occur because the strikers know that they have a great and powerful friend in Canberra. Nothing can be done because the relevant Ministers just have not got the guts to do anything about it and do not dare confront the strikers in the unions. In this situation the strikers become emboldened and more and more strikes occur. It is of course necessary to get rid of this Government if we are to have industrial peace in Australia. I say this in passing because it will only be relevant in this debate to mention it in relation to the fact that although we look to public transport more and more there is this saving grace of private transport that it is less subject to strike action. 
 The Minister asks whether it is not a Liberal Government in New South Wales. It is perfectly true that it is, but when there was a Liberal Government in Canberra also there were fewer strikes in New South Wales because the strikers did not know, as they know now, that in Canberra they have a great and powerful friend who is on the side of industrial disruption. It is this kind of confidence they have which emboldens them, as I have said, to strike and it is because of this that this Government must be thrown out. There will be no industrial peace in Australia until it is thrown out. I have been provoked by the interjection of the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  to make this point, because he himself is one of the guilty men who has failed to do his duty in this matter. 
Let me come back to the transport position in Sydney. It seems to me that in Sydney more attention should be paid to the underground railway. I say this particularly because of the peculiar situation which exists in Sydney. The sandstone on which Sydney is built is emin ently suitable for the use of the new tunnelling methods. I have gone into this in some detail and I am confident of my figures. In Sydney sandstone a 24-foot diameter tunnel sufficient for a single line rail can be built and finished for only $lm a mile. This makes it cheaper than a surface line where heavy resumptions are involved. But, more importantly, it also preserves the amenities and ecology of the area. An underground line does not require immense resumptions nor does it have the noise of passing trains which can disturb the neighbourhood. In Sydney, particularly because of the geological position in which it is situated, there is every reason to get the lines underground and to have more reliance on underground railways as a means of urban transport. 
I wish to direct my remarks to some of the implications of the prices and incomes referenda, but before doing so I would like to take the opportunity of making my own personal position clear in regard to certain matters of wages and hours. For many years I have been an advocate of the highest possible wages that could economically be paid, and for many years I have also been an advocate of the shortest working period that was consonant with the maintenance of our economy. I might recall to the House that some 30 years ago I advocated, and I still advocate, the better use of increased leisure time. I spoke then of the long week-end as an alternative to shortening the daily hours of work, and this is now becoming a possibility with the idea of a 4-day week and changes of that character. I actually appeared before the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in an inquiry into this matter, I think some 25 years ago, advocating that in place of shortening the daily hours of work we should consider giving more holidays, perhaps a 4-day working week, the long week-end and things of that character. 
I place myself on the side of those who take the most liberal view in this matter, but I do not believe that at the present moment we can envisage either shortening hours or increasing wages because of the extreme inflationary situation in which we are placed and which is, I think, one of the most dangerous things that any economy can face. If I might use a simile, it seems to me that the Australian economy is rapidly getting out of control like a car careering down a hill. One certainly would not want to apply the brakes to an extent that a skid would be caused, but on the other hand it would be irresponsible under these circumstances to put one's foot fiat down on the accelerator. At the present moment therefore I feel, and I am sure all people of reasonable responsibility will agree with me, that this is the time for restraint. That is a short term policy. Over a longer term I am in favour of the raising of the real wage and not only decreasing hours of work but - I think this is even more important - also using the increased leisure time coupled together in the form of extra holidays, long week-ends or something of that nature and not dissipated simply in a few minutes off in each day of work. This is something I have consistently advocated for some 30 years. 
I come to something that occurred in the House yesterday. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  in answer to a question, I think behaved in a way which evaded the issue. I want to put it squarely on the line. The Prime Minister at his Press conference the previous day - and I have a verbatim report of that conference - said that if the referenda were carried and if he got new powers over prices and incomes he would apply to non-wage incomes the principles that were already applied to wage incomes, and he spoke of bringing them before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. I quoted his exact words to the House when I asked him the question. There is no point in my repeating them now. They stand as a verbatim report of that conference, and they were not denied. The Prime Minister is perfectly well aware that the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission does not declare maximum wages. It does not put a ceiling on wages; it puts a floor on wages. It declares a minimum, not a maximum wage. It does not say: 'This is a wage which must not be exceeded*. It says: This is a wage which will he maintained. Nobody will pay less than that'. The Arbitration Commission does not say: 'Nobody will pay more'. In point of fact many wage earners have availed themselves of their undoubted right to get over-award payments. This is quite common, and it is certainly within the framework of the law and within the framework of the arrangements of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. Indeed, under the present arrangements I do not think that the Commission has any constitutional power to declare maximum wages. It can declare minimum but not maximum wages. 
If the prices and incomes referenda were carried it would certainly acquire the power, if the Australian Government so directed it, to declare maximum as well as minimum wages. I think this is what the Prime Minister must have intended when he spoke at that Press conference, because otherwise his words are meaningless. Does he mean that for nonwage incomes he will prescribe, as is provided for wage incomes, a floor and not a ceiling so that he will be prescribing for these nonwage incomes a minimum and not a maximum and anybody will be entitled, as a wage earner is now entitled, to get something over the prescribed amount? That would surely be not consonant with any possible effective economic control through the new powers. Or does he mean that he would use the new constitutional powers to direct the Commission to outlaw over-award payments, to put a real ceiling on them? This is the question I asked him and he did not answer it. He spoke of a wage freeze. In the question I did not raise the point of a wage freeze at all. I spoke of over-award payments, and that is something quite different. He evaded that question. He would not answer that question. He turned the whole discussion aside toy bringing in a lot of windy irrelevancies. 
I will put my own position in regard to a wage freeze or a prices freeze and an incomes freeze. I believe - in fact I was the first advocate of the idea - that there is a case to be made out for a short term, and I emphasise short term freeze on wages, incomes and prices. Over the long term it simply will not work because the black market comes in and complexities come in. But in this present system of endemic inflation I believe there is virtue in a short term and temporary freeze, a kind of 90-day halt to stop the momentum forward, but I am not in favour of a long term permanent freeze of this character. Do I make my position clear? The Prime Minister in his irrelevant reply to me said, and I quote from Hansard: 
However, it is clear from looking at the statistics for the last 20 years or so that the amount of the gross domestic product represented by wages and salaries has gone down but other forms of income have gone up. 
I ask leave to have incorporated in Hansard a table prepared by the Commonwealth Parliamentary Library Statistical Service showing the real position. 
In that case I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would preclude me from making a statement for a time not exceeding 5 minutes on the matters raised by the Minister for Labour. 
I am no going to detain the House for long in this regard. Without discussing the substance of this matter, I want to put the point that in all fairness a member in these circumstances should be allowed by the House to reply. During question time today a question was asked of the Minister by a member of his own side. I would not accuse the Minister of having prearranged that question - 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. During question time the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  made a friendly interjection which was, of course, of a sarcastic nature, to say that I had surrendered in regard to the matter of the statistics then before the House. I am sure that my friend the honourable member for Moreton said this to indicate exactly the opposite. The Minister for Labour  (Mr Cameron)  who was at the table, chose to take up the interjection at its face value. I make it quite clear that on this matter I have not surrendered and further, I have only just started to fight. 
I have differed so often from the Prime Minister- 

 - Mr Speaker, I have arranged with the honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson)  to cease speaking at 10.50 p.m., as he has a particular matter to raise. 
1 had hoped that tonight I would have an opportunity to say something about the conduct of the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly).  I am hoping,  Mr Speaker,  that tomorrow night in the adjournment debate you will be kind enough to call me somewhat earlier in the proceedings so that I may have an opportunity to express at greater length my feelings and deductions that have to be put before this House and the country on the way that the Minister has been conducting himself and the proceedings in this House. I will not have an opportunity to do that tonight but I want to draw attention to what he said a few minutes ago. I believe he said that he was going to wear the jackboot. He is doing precisely that. 
The Government makes a great show of the way in which it allows debates in this House, but on every important measure it truncates debate. We had a tremendous example of that today when the Bills relating to the Australian Industry Development Corporation were before the House. They are most important Bills and one would have thought that if the Government really believed in them it would have been glad to have had- 
 Mr Speaker-- 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  proposed: 
That the question be now put. 
I am sorry about this,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I should have liked to speak to this motion. Nothing was heard against the motion except from the honourable member for Bennelong. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The honourable gentleman will resume his seat. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Last night I gave some notice in the House that I was hoping to speak tonight on the motion for the adjournment of the House about the Government's conduct in the House, with particular reference to the conduct of the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly).  I make it clear that at no stage do I reflect on the Chair. I am turning my mind to the action of the Government and particularly the action of the Leader of the House. Today other honourable members have drawn attention to the Government's habit of applying the guillotine so that important measures cannot be debated. I will not go into that matter further because it has already been spoken about in this House. The Government's action has reduced the conduct of this House, in some respects, to a farce on these major matters. 
Tonight I wish to look at the procedures of the House. I speak, for example, of what happened last Monday when the honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Ian Robinson)  was perhaps a little tardy in rising to his feet. A mistake was made. I do not know where the blame lies. But there was confusion. It could easily have been sorted out, with a little goodwill. There was no reason why the honourable member for Cowper should not have had an opportunity to speak. I know that in the past when similar events have occurred the member concerned has been given the right to speak. To insist on meticulous points such as this is not in accordance with the best spirit of the House, nor was it in accordance with the best spirit of the House on Tuesday last to refuse me the opportunity to reply to some of the scurrilous imputations which had been made by the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  at question time. When that kind of thing is done in the House, even if it is in strict conformity with Standing Orders, it does not do the Government any credit. 
What I wish to speak about primarily is something that was not in accordance with Standing Orders. I wish to rehearse to the House what happened some time ago but which, because of the intervention of the recess and the temporary absence overseas of the Leader of the House, has not been brought to the attention of the House as promptly perhaps as one would have wished. On 29 August, the Leader of the House, as reported at page 589 of Hansard, said: 
From memory, not one member of the Country Party has ever won more than SO per cent of the primary votes before being elected to this Parliament. Of course they get more than 50 per cent after the distribution of preferences, but not one Country Party member has ever gained a majority on the first count. The honourable member for Moore  (Mr Maisey)  is a good friend of mine. A couple of years ago he was elected on 27 per cent of the primary vote. I could mention all the members of the Country Party. 
That statement, as honourable members know, was a false statement. It is quite pardonable for a member, having made a false statement and finding his fault, to correct it, to correct it even in Hansard, and to apologise. Nobody would think worse of him for that. Mistakes can be made. But this is not what the Leader of the House did. The following day, as reported at page 677 of Hansard, the falsity of the statement was pointed out. The Leader of the House took a most extraordinary course. I refer tohis speech on page 696 of Hansard. He claimed mispresentation. He came into the House suddenly. I shall quote what he said. The Hansard record states: 
I will certainly not endeavour to attack the Government on the estimates for the Department of the Environment and Conservation. I think the Committee would agree with me that the amount of money allocated is pitifully small. But I would say also in all fairness that it is greater than it has been in the past. I think the Commonwealth Government has perhaps got off to a rather late start in regard to this important matter of conservation. Although it was the previous Government that started to have some Commonwealth conscience in this matter, the present Government has at any rate taken up that initiative and is expanding it. I am not here to attack the Government or even to defend past governments. We are all a little guilty here. In the past this matter has been considered - wrongly, I think - to be peculiarly a State province. Some of the States have done a lot in this regard; we should not ignore what they have done. I hope that I will not be considered parochial if I speak particularly of New South Wales and the great efforts that have been made in that State, particularly in regard to national parks. I hope that they will be further extended. 
I want to speak simply about one facet of conservation. In so speaking I do not want to imply that there are not facets of comparable importance. It seems to me that we should be sponsoring in the eastern States of Australia a project to preserve our heritage in the Great Dividing Range. That is the range that starts in the north in Cape York and runs down, ending in the Grampians in Victoria. It is probably the most important physical feature of our continent and, although it has to some extent been despoiled, it still has a tremendous amount of its original attraction. I do noi know whether many honourable members are familiar with it in its diversity from the big timber in the far north, in parts of Cape York, or beyond in the unique wet lands at the tip of Cape York, down through the rugged ranges - they are rugged; they are not very high but they are rough by any world standards - behind Brisbane, behind Sydney, through Canberra and down behind Melbourne. 
The great point about this range surely is to preserve the remaining timber. I am not suggesting that it should all be forest but I do suggest that the most important single measure of conservation available to Australia is the preservation of the timber and the remaining  rain  forest in the range. I hope that it will be possible for us to have on an Australian scale an authority to look after the range, perhaps with local chapters but certainly utilising the machinery of the State. Of course, it is in the States that the authority over lands particularly resides. In this immense area there are bits that should remain as farmland, as they are now. Diversity has a great attraction, but let us above everything try to preserve the remaining timber and the remaining bushlands. Exploitation of these resources is not so important, I believe, as their preservation for posterity. 
Of course, I am not suggesting for one moment that we should shut up the Australian timber industry. I would try to preserve some sense of proportion here. There are some areas which can be with advantage cut through properly and there are areas, much more significant, which could be afforested or re-afforested and used as commercial timber sources on a rotating basis in perpetuity. But the forests that remain, particularly in those strategic positions, must be preserved. At the present time I do not think they are being entirely preserved. 
The most important parts of the range, of course, are those which are reasonably accessible to our centres of population. Again may I be pardoned for being parochial and speaking of the mountains that lie behind Sydney - that is, perhaps 100 miles north and South of Sydney. These are still to a great extent wild territories and they should remain so. I would hope that a tremendous area could still be dedicated either as a national park or as some kind of reservation. This would not be expensive. I speak particularly of the 2 million acres which lie to the north of the Colo River - a grand area very little known, and perhaps that is a good thing. Perhaps it has been preserved because it is little known. A great deal of it is still Crown land and the protection of the remainder would cost peanuts compared with what we are thinking of spending on other projects in less significant and populous areas. 
A magnificent area is available here and now. I am speaking of the mountains that lie in what I think Cunningham named the King's Range that go out from Coricudgy and Mellongelly and those mountains that come down the Great Dividing Range to the Hunter Valley. As I say, there is an area of 2 million acres of the grandest country near Sydney, not to be developed, I believe, in any intensive way but to be reserved, to be made moderately accessible, not perhaps to vehicles except insofar as vehicles could be used to allow people to go in on horse and on foot. Round Sydney - and again I do not want to be parochial, but I speak of Sydney because that is the country I know best - surely there is more opportunity for developing the use of the horse and to preserve, not necessarily in that mountain country but perhaps in some of the more open country, large areas where the horse can be the normal method of sport and recreation. We are forgetting the horse in Australia. It is funny that this should be so because Australia is one of the countries which made its progress in the back of the horse. 
I know that conservation is far wider than the thing of which I have spoken, but I put up a concrete plan that we should have some kind of authority based partly on State law coordinated with Federal law, with Federal funds available to it, with local chapters to look after their own sectors, to preserve the Great Dividing Range and particularly the timber of the Dividing Range from Cape York down to the Grampians, with special reference to the area-; behind our main cities. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Armitage)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I do not intend to take up the time of the House for long in regard to this measure but there are a couple of propositions which I think should be put. I am not sure that they will be altogether pleasing to either side of the House. 
I think that the Liberal Party might perhaps be considering some of the basic financial propositions which underlie budget control. It seems to me that it is time we acknowledged some of our past errors and looked forward to some kind of new policy because, after all, I am sure that when we get back into power, which will not be long, it will be necessary for us to have a different kind of financial policy in some, though not all, respects. 
The legislation that is before the House relates to capital advances and in order to put this into perspective I should like to say something about the Federal Budget and the capital advance content of the Federal Budget. I believe this is quite crucial because it embodies an error which has been intensified by the present Government but which was I think inherent in the financial policies which have been developed over the years. It was said in this House earlier that when the Government spent, it was different from private capital spending because if the Government created a deficit it would be adding to the inflationary fires in that it would be adding to the amount of money in circulation. This is an obvious truism. But what is not realised is that if the Government raises a loan it reduces the money in circulation in exactly the same way as if it imposes and collects a tax. In relation to the amount of money in circulation, the raising of a loan is equally efficacious to the collection of a tax in reducing the total quantum of money supply. Therefore, if the Federal Government raises a loan it reduces the money supply in exactly the same way as if it collects a tax. 
What has happened over past years has been that Federal governments have been paying for capital works out of taxation. They have been collecting taxation and using that money to pay for capital works, very largely through advances to the States. This has meant that in order to maintain financial equilibrium, the Federal governments have either to raise loans, which they have not done, or to impose extra taxation. I put it as a major proposition that the incidence of taxation in Australia very largely has been determined by the failure of governments to raise adequate loans to cover the capital works program. 
The extent of this is not always realised but it is easy to make a first approximation of this from the figures which are published in the Budget papers. I think that the amount of revenue which has been used for capital works can be reasonably ascertained in the following way: Firstly, we add together the capital works in the Federal Budget as shown in the Budget; secondly, we add to that the grants to the States for specified capital purposes as shown in the Budget papers; and, thirdly, we add the net capital advances to States and other bodies as shown in the Budget papers, all coming from Federal revenue. We take from that I think we should the Budget deficit as shown in the Budget papers. This will give us the amount of taxation which is allocated to capital purposes. It is an approximation because the result probably understates the position due firstly to the excess provision of sinking fund and, secondly, to the lack of allowance for capital appreciation of Commonwealth assets. There are also a number of minor adjustments but 
I do not think they would affect the general picture. 
Using the official figures as I have pointed out, I have compiled from the Budget papers a table showing the development of this practice in the last 20 years and particularly the very big advance which was made in the amount of the allocation for capital works in the last year, as shown in the Budget papers. It is not usually realised that the net amount allocated in the Budget papers of this year for capital works is $2,062m - a very big proportion of our income tax. In other words, if we reverted to the normal principles of finance which we should be following we could reduce income tax very significantly or, alternatively, we could reduce excise or one of the other taxes, if and only if we could raise this additional amount by loan and thus reduce taxation without adding to the net monetary supply. I should like permission to incorporate in Hansard a table showing these details. 
Not much time will be available for me this evening to develop what I would like to say in this debate, so I will introduce my topic with a few words now. I agree that we must look always to Australia's interests first in regard to foreign policy. But there are certain matters in respect of which Australia's interests are inextricably bound up with the interests of all mankind. I am afraid that we overlook the fact that, when we are speaking of power in the world now, foreign policy comes down still to nuclear policy and to the possession of the weapons which dictate the power balance and which allow the possessors of those weapons to stand in a situation quite different from that of the rest of the world and of those which do not possess those weapons. When this debate is resumed I shall draw attention to what has been said by  Sir Philip  Baxter in this regard, when he pointed out that at the present moment there is a great deal of- 
Progress reported. 
I wish to take this opportunity to make a constructive suggestion to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  who, I understand, is to go abroad shortly to represent Australia in various countries and particularly in Communist China. As he says that he is a friend of all oppressed people, I suggest to him that he ask his good and trusted friend, the  Chairman  of the People's Republic of China, to arrange for a deputation from this Parliament to visit Tibet.  Mr Speaker,  as you know, a great many stories are current about what has happened in Tibet. Some people say that there has been genocide on a grand scale, if 'grand' be the right word. Some people say that the Chinese communists have obliterated the Tibetan culture. There is some evidence for that in the fact that the Dalai Lama has had to flee his country and take refuge overseas. The stories we hear are shocking beyond belief, but we cannot verify them because nobody is allowed to go to Tibet. 
I suggest that, if the Chinese communists want to clear their name, if they want to put an end to these stories if they be untrue, they have a very simple remedy. They should allow a deputation of members from both sides of this House to visit Tibet, with the necessary interpreters, and to see for themselves what has been happening there. If a communist country, or indeed any other country, holds incommunicado for many years a large section of the territory which it claims - as far as Tibet is concerned there is some reason to think that the claim is not a justified claim but in point of fact is a claim of aggression - that country leaves itself open to all sorts of suspicious if it refuses to allow objective observers to visit and to report at first hand. The Prime Minister considers the  Chairman  of the People's Republic of China his friend. He has spoken of him in the highest and warmest terms. If this friendship is really as deep as the Prime Minister has suggested and if the distinguished  chairman  of the People's Republic of China has nothing to hide, it will be a simple matter for the Prime Minister to ask him whether he would allow a deputation of members from this Houst to visit Tibet and, with the proper facilities for seeing affairs there, to observe for themselves what the conditions are. 
If it be true, as some people in China say, that the stories relating to Tibet are utterly unfounded, it would be good for everybody, including the People's Republic of China, for the truth to be reported. A visit by a deputation comprising members from both sides of this House would be a good way of establishing the truth. I know that many of the members of this House who are associated with Left wing movements and have participated in communist led agitation have professed that they are in favour of all sorts of freedoms, that they are - against all sorts of oppression and that they do not believe in genocide and murder. I am all with them on this. 
 Mr Speaker,  am I to get no protection from the Chair when these kinds of remarks are made? I can understand how certain of the Left wing members of the Labor Party, who themselves have been associated with communist demonstrations, may feel a little tender on a matter like this. But if they are honest, if they really believe, as they say, that they are against all genocide and not just against the things which they profess to abhor in other countries which are not communist, they will come behind the suggestion that I have made and they, in their Caucus, will be asking the Prime Minister to allow a deputation to Tibet to take place. 
If the communists have nothing to hide they will welcome a deputation from a body as objective and as well thought of as this House. If, on the other hand, they are unwilling to allow a deputation to see what is happening in Tibet, that of itself, to some extent, will substantiate the horror stories which we hear. Although these stories are not necessarily established because first-hand observers have not been allowed into Tibet, there is a great prima facie case for accepting the truth of these stories. We know that Tibetan refugees, including the most eminent Tibetan refugees - and I have spoken of the Dalai Lama - accuse the Chinese Communists - whether rightly or wrongly we do not know, but the accusation stands - of conducting a systematic assassination of the Tibetan people and of their culture. Charges of physical genocide and cultural genocide are made, and with some evidence. 
If there is nothing to hide, I would think that the  Chairman  of the People's Republic of China would welcome a visit from members of this House who would be able to assure themselves and the world that all is sweetness and light in Tibet. By the way, this is not my opinion but, as I have said, one has these opinions and they are based on fairly good evidence. But I suppose that they are not conclusive opinions until objective observers have been to Tibet and have been able to see for themselves what has been happening. I make this very constructive suggestion to the Prime Minister. I hope that when he visits the distinguished  Chairman  of the People's Republic of China he will ask permission from him for a delegation from this House to visit Tibet so that the members of that delegation can see for themselves what is happening there and can make a report to the people of Australia and to the people of the world, because the people of the world surely should be interested in what is happening to a few million people on the roof of Asia. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Services and Property and relates specifically to the administration of his portfolio. My question is based on the book 'Labor to Power' which reveals that the somewhat narrow Australian Labor Party electoral victory of 2 December last was due largely to a lavishly financed, skilfully contrived and quite unscrupulous public relations campaign directed by an agency, Hansen Rubensohn-McCann Erickson Pty Ltd, which is a multi-national corporation 100 per cent owned from New York and which, incidentally, still acts for the Australian Labor Party and is privy to its plans. I ask: In drafting the legislation which he has forecast to this House will he include a provision prohibiting the participation of multi-national corporations in Commonwealth politics either as agents for political parties in election campaigns or as agents for underground public relations activities between such campaigns? 
In the brief time available to me, may I recall to the House in summary what I said previously. I believe that something should be done immediately. Honourable members are entitled to separate rooms. Let Austin have his swink to him reserved. We should do something immediately about the kitchens and provide better dining facilities, particularly for the staff and the Press. Some additional space is needed for the Library. But these are things that can be done now without any great changes to the existing structure and they should be done now. I believe that if they are done now there is no great urgency for a massive new Parliament House. This chamber has historical associations; it should be preserved. But if the urgency to do something commends itself to the House. I would prefer the plan that we proceed in stages and in that case, of course, the only possible site would be Camp Hill. But I believe that the site we presently occupy is the best site in Canberra and the best site for this House. I suggest to honourable members that we look to these immediate improvements which should be made, particularly the improvement of allowing each member to have a separate room. The kitchen should be modernised and the Library should get some - not many, but some - new facilities and space. I thank the House. 
I will not detain the Committee for long, although I believe that what I am to say is, if not in itself tremendously important, at least deals with the most important subject before this Parliament, namely, the security of the Australian people. I do not believe that this security can in the long run be differentiated entirely from the security of the other peoples of the world. We like to pretend that foreign affairs is no longer a matter of force. This unhappily is not true. Foreign affairs is now unhappily, as I have said before, a question of nuclear politics. This has been so since the end of the last War. 
Let me rehearse to honourable members some considerations which were brought out recently by  Sir Philip  Baxter in an article in the Press. At the end of the last War, the United States had a nuclear monopoly. The United .States proposed to turn over that monopoly power to the United Nations. This would have meant that the United Nations would have had real force because it would have been able to impose on any recalcitrant nation the will of the whole. That proposal was rejected. Its rejection was due almost entirely to the machinations of the Soviet bloc which pretended to be affronted and to be in favour of nuclear disarmament but which actually achieved a position where the nuclear threat continued to hang over the world. That is still the position. Unhappily, it has been complicated by the advances of nuclear science. 
In 1945 and 1946, the nuclear bomb- the fission bomb - was, I think, decisive in terms of power, but not decisive in terms of necessary annihilation. That situation changed when more than one country obtained the necessary nuclear know-how and completed the necessary nuclear preparations. It changed because the communist world, having rejected world disarmament for its own devious purposes, now held the balance of terror with the countries of the West. At the present moment nuclear arms are held by the United States, by Soviet Russia, in a small way by the United Kingdom and France, certainly by China and probably by other countries as well but those other countries have not yet revealed in full what they possess. We do not know the full extent of the possession of nuclear arms by those countries. 
When, in the early 1950s, the fusion bomb superseded the old fission bomb, the power of the nuclear weapon became immensely extended. Furthermore, as knowledge became more disseminated and science found new ways of doing things, the power to make these bombs got into more and more hands. That will extend, if it has not already extended. I have named some countries. It is almost certain now that Israel has some kind of nuclear capacity. It is not quite certain; it is not officially verified. It is very likely that India either has that capacity or is very near to acquiring it. Others in that league include Japan, Germany, Italy, a number of South American countries and certainly Canada. That is not to say that all of those countries necessarily have nuclear weapons, but they have nuclear weapons within their short term grasp. 
It is no good saying that they will not use those weapons or that we have nothing to fear. The bomb is proliferating. Nothing effective is being done to control that proliferation. The so called Treaty on the Non-proliferation of Nuclear Weapons is a pure sham. If one is climbing, for example, there is one thing worse than having no rope; it is to have a rotten rope on which one places reliance. That is the position of the world today. I am in favour of watertight nuclear control. I believe that we should work towards it. But I am not in favour of the sham kind of control on which we are placing reliance at present. This is the most dangerous of all situations. Perhaps it will not eventuate into disaster in the course of the next year or even of the next decade. But it is clear that unless there is some kind of effective nuclear disarmament, we and the world are set for destruction. 
What are we to do? Are we to just sit here and wring our hands as most of us have been doing? Will we move in the United Nations for something effective? Are we to reveal the kind of sham - the rotten rope - on which the world at present seems to depend? Would we not be carrying out our duties as members of the Australian Parliament and as members of one of the parliaments of mankind - as members of the parliament of mankind, if honourable members like to put it that way - and would we not be doing better if, in the United Nations and elsewhere, we were to reject this kind of sham nuclear disarmament as pure piffle, absolutely unreliable, and work as we should be working for something effective and secure? 
Earlier today the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  drew attention to the fact that today is United Nations Day. I think we should give some consideration to what that implies. I am one who believes that we need a strong international organisation. I am not one who believes that we should denigrate the concept of international order in this world - very much the opposite. But I note with regret, as indeed the honourable member for Boothby noted with regret, that the United Nations does not, as at present, perform that function. To some extent that is due to the structural weaknesses in the United Nations setup. When its charter was formulated, provision was incorporated in it for a revision in the light of experience. That revision has never taken place. Indeed, I do not think it likely that it can take place because no resolution for a revision can be put forward without the approval of the Security Council, and in the Security Council the veto of one permanent member is sufficient to abort any such resolution. Three of the permanent members of the Security 
Council are China, Russia and the United States. Is it likely that they will find themselves in agreement on any vital matter? I think not. Therefore the ramshackle United Nations proceeds on. 
I believe that the existence of the United Nations is, in a sense, doing a disservice to world order, not because I believe that there is no need for a strong international organisation - very much the contrary - but because the United Nations in its present sham form occupies the ground and prevents the coming into existence of any effective guardian and guarantor of world order. This can be seen today, I fear, in respect of the conflict which is occurring in the Middle East. The United Nations was able, because the two super powers of Russia and the United States did come together on this matter, to persuade the belligerents to accept a ceasefire. But, unhappily, it was not able to police that ceasefire. None of us can say from this distance whether the violations came from the Arab side or the Israeli side. But we know that both sides have accused the other of violating the truce. So far as I know - one never knows quite how accurate international reporting is - the conflict is still raging at the present moment. 
The same was true and is true, unhappily, with respect to South East Asia. We have had a settlement and ceasefire in Vietnam. But that ceasefire - in this case we do know from first hand information - has been violated consistently by the communists. Aggression is occuring in South East Asia on a massive scale against South Vietnam and Cambodia, and we still stand powerless. We have the ceasefire, yes; but a ceasefire is meaningless when communists are capable of consistently violating it. One of the saddest things is that although this open aggression is occurring - and it is occurring - the Australian Govern ment and the United Nations have shut their eyes to it. Earlier this evening the honourable member for Boothby cited several - not several, many - instances in which the United Nations has shut its eyes to uncomfortable reality. 
I have been a delegate to the United Nations on more than one occasion and I have seen the apparatus in action. I have seen the way in which the communists inside the United Nations manipulate its decisions and abort its actions. That is regrettable in every way. What I have to say is, I think, even more regrettable. I believe that the communist manipulations in the United Nations have been possible only because of reprehensible weakness from the side of the democracies. The United States - I say this with regret and with some first hand experience - has not discharged its responsibility of giving a firm lead to the democracies in the United Nations. Other democracies also, I fear, have failed in their duty. Because they have been unable to stand up to communist abuse and because they have been consumed as perhaps we are here to our shame, with petty maneouvering, the communists, who are implacably going forward, have been able to take position after position. That is our weakness. It is a very regrettable and terrible thing. I say from some first hand experience that our side will not back up those who take a stand against the communist infiltration forward, which is happening now. It is happening on an international scale. It is happening on a national and internal scale here in Australia. Those who have the responsibility of taking a firm stand, unfortunately, are unable or unwilling to do so. 
Mouse adjourned at 11 p.m. 
ANSWERS TO QUESTIONS UPON NOTICE The following answers to questions upon notice were circulated: 
 Mr 
Speaker, I give notice that at the next sitting of the House I shall move: 
That a Select Committee of this House be appointed to inquire into: 
the reasons why the raft with the survivors of the 'Blythe Star' was not located more promptly, and 
possible measures to facilitate the prompt location of boats or rafts in difficulties at sea. 
That the Committee consist of the mover and seconder, together with 3 members to be nominated by the Prime Minister and to be notified in writing to the  Speaker. 
That the Committee have power to send for persons, papers and records, to move from place to place and to sit during any recess or adjournment of the Parliament. 
That the Committee report to this House not later than 30 November 1973. 
The Government is subservient to or is part of what it chooses to call the Australian Labor Party. I think that it should be named the un-Australian Labor Party because if there was ever a party that has betrayed Australia and Australian ideals, it is the Party which controls the Government. I say this because the Government is a socialist government and it has obtained power under pretences. It has obtained power as the agent of the international socialist movement. The international communist movement seems to be the dominant partner in that affair. It is controlled 
Order! I think we have had consistent rulings from the past and the present Speakers that general comments of this nature are not to be taken as personal reflections on individual members. 
Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I point out to honourable members the close connection between various Government supporters and various sections of the ALP with the World Federation of Trade Unions - a communist international show which seems to control policy. I want again to put on record the performance of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in June 1972 when he went to communist organisations in order to obtain money to finance his election campaign. The Prime Minister knowingly gave to those communist organisations pledges to follow their policy if they would pay money to the ALP. This is what happens when multinational international communist controlled organisations pay the election expenses of this Government. 
I want to have incorporated in Hansard pages 34 to 38 of the minutes of 2 June 1972 of the Commonwealth Council of Amalgamated Organisations, which consists of the Amalgamated Engineering Union, the blacksmiths, boilermakers and sheet metal workers, which records the visit by the Prime Minister to that organisation, the taking of the $25,000 and the pledges which he gave to the communists at that time. I ask permission to incorporate these pages in Hansard. 
I showed the document to the Postmaster-General  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  when he was at the table. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Berinson)Order! I have been asked whether leave is granted. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Berinson)Leave is not granted. 
I put on record that I showed the document to the PostmasterGeneral when he was at the table earlier in this debate and I understood that he was going to give permission. I appreciate that the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  who is now at the table may not know that. But I ask him again now whether he will grant leave. It is quite proper that these pages be incorporated in Hansard. They are a record of what the Prime Minister did. If he is ashamed of what the Prime Minister did, let him say so now. Is the Minister for Immigration prepared to go along with the permission which the Minister who was at the table a moment ago granted? 
Order! For the moment leave is not granted. 
Well,  Sir, we  shall see. If leave is not granted I shall take the opportunity on the adjournment debate to read the whole of this document into Hansard because I think that it is important that the country should know exactly how the Prime Minister is betraying it to the communists and how the Prime Minister has knowingly taken money from the communists and given them pledges. (Quorum formed.)  Mr Deputy Speaker,  thank you very much. It is significant that the Labor Party- 
May I make it quite dear that I did not mean for one moment that the Prime Minister personally took the money for his own good. What I say is that the Prime Minister took the money on behalf of his Party. 
Yes, most certainly. I am trying to put on record what actually happened. It is for that reason, instead of trying to summarise the document myself, that I asked for the permission of the House to incorporate in Hansard the trade union minutes which record what actually happened. I will let those minutes stand for themselves. I do not wish to make any comment on them. I certainly cannot withdraw the trade union minutes; I did not write them. 
Yes. 
That grievances be noted. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I should like to underline the point which was made earlier that the so-called Australian Labor Party is really an un-Australian Party because of its affiliations with the international socialist movement and the left wing of that movement, which is sometimes called the communist movement. I should like to recall to honourable members some remarks which were made by  Senator Gietzelt  on a program called, I think, "This Day Tonight' as recently as 12 October. I saw this program myself. In order to refresh my memory I have a transcript of it which was prepared by the Parliamentary Library. Therefore, the quotation that I make will not be just from my memory but from the transcript that the Library has made. 
It will be remembered that when the communist Government in Chile was overthrown a great deal of indignation was expressed by certain members of the Government. This was in curious contrast to the lack of indignation expressed when governments which are either anti-communist or non-communist are overthrown. For example, one remembers the involvement of the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  in the attempted overthrow of anti-communist governments in South-East Asia. Indeed, the Party of which he is such a conspicuous ornament was involved as a party in activity against those governments, activity which was carried on by violence, by murder and by aggression. It is unfortunate that the Party which controls the Government has associated itself with this campaign of murder and aggression. 
But I digress. Let me come back to Chile. In this case I understand from the remarks of  Senator Gietzelt  that 57 members of the Labor Caucus - I think there are 95 members altogether, so 57 is a considerable majority, and I understand that those 57 included 12 Ministers - signed a petition requiring the Government not to recognise the new anticommunist Government of Chile. However, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  did recognise that Government, and this was indicated to the House. On the program 'This Day Tonight*  Senator Gietzelt  said that he proposed to get the Labor Caucus, with these 57 signatures, to reverse this decision. When asked for his reason he said of the communist Chilean Government: 'It's a brother party, it's a party affiliated to the socialist international, and I think we have some obligations to give them moral support in their hours of trial.' There we see a complete link-up. Fifty-seven members out of 95 of this un-Australian Labor Party - a good majority - signed this petition because, they say this is a socialist brother party, a party affiliated to the socialist international. 
The Labor Party talks about foreign control. Its heart and soul are sold to foreigners. Its ideology is a foreign ideology, and it openly boasts that it will be influenced and will take its direction from the needs of this socialist international. It is perfectly true that when this matter came before the Labor Caucus the 57 crayfished. They would not follow  Senator Gietzelt.  In the interview  Senator Gietzelt  had made quite specific threats to the decision of the Prime Minister. I wonder why they went back. I am told that they got a clearance from the Communist Party before they changed their minds. I am told that they got a clearance from the left wing and that that is why these 57 people, although they had signed a petition, failed to get behind  Senator Gietzelt.  This is, of course, one of the rare occasions on which there has been a difference ' of opinion between the Prime Minister and  Senator Gietzelt.  It is worth recalling to the House that in a sense the Prime Minister is  Senator Gietzelt's  protege, because  Senator Gietzelt  ran his election campaigns for him and in fact - this happened a long time ago - master-minded and organised his pre-selection in Werriwa when  Mr Lazzarini,  the previous member died and the seat of Werriwa became vacant. It stands on the record, I think, that at that stage the Prime Minister took his preselection at the hands of what was, if not the Communist Party, something very near it - because in this interview  Senator Gietzelt  practically admits his close association with the left wing. 
I do not know whether  Senator Gietzelt  always maintains this hold over the Prime Minister but at any rate, although he failed on this occasion, it is pretty clear that the Prime Minister is vastly beholden to him. I think it will be found on examination that the Prime Minister intervened when  Senator Gietzelt  was expelled, whether rightly or wrongly I do not know, from a certain organisation because of his pro-communist sympathies. The Prime Minister, I believe, personally intervened to have him taken back into the good graces of that organisation. So this association between the Prime Minister and the left wing in his Party is very well documented and I think we can understand what is happening behind the scenes in the Labor Party. I do not for one moment accuse the Prime Minister of being a communist; I make it quite clear that I am not saying that. I do say that he is beholden to people who have been closely associated with communism and with the communist machinations, and that when  Mr Lazzarini  died the Prime Minister took his pre-selection at their hands and communists worked on his booths at the poll. That is a little bit of history that the Communist Party might well remember. 
I thank the House and I will not detain it for long. I was most interested to hear the remarks of the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  in regard to the Aboriginal interest and involvement at Ayers Rock or as it is more properly called, Uluru. I have had an opportunity only in the last few minutes to see this report. Therefore, I am not in a position to say anything definite in regard to it. But I make the point - I think that this was implicit in what the honourable member for Scullin said - that the interests of the Aborigines in this area should be preserved at all costs. As far as I am aware - I speak after having talked to people who have some knowledge of the Ayers Rock situation - the significance of Ayers Rock itself to the Aborigines was very great, particularly to the western desert people, but is now much less important because of its desecration. But the areas around Ayers Rock, including some not very far from it, still retain their significance. 
It is very difficult and it will be very difficult to reconcile the interest of tourism so-called with those of the Aboriginal involvement and the significance to the Aborigines of this area. I noted with interest that one of the witnesses mentioned in the report went by the name of Uluru which, of course, is the proper Aboriginal name that the Pitjantjatjara people used for Ayers Rock itself. I am afraid that there will be some conflict here. It may be that the Ayers Rock area itself which has become so well known and which is so much a focus of tourism may retain its significance not just for Aboriginal ceremonial purposes but also as an indication to all Australians of the significance that we other Australians attach to the Aboriginal heritage. As such, it is possible at Ayers Rock to combine the Aboriginal interest and the tourist interest. But I would stress that those sites which still retain their full significance for Aboriginal people should be maintained and retained for the Aboriginal people and that the tourist interest should come second. As I have said, I have not had a chance of reading the report in whole but I think that this is implicit in what the honourable member for Scullin said and, if so, I certainly would commend it. We may have gone too far in desecrating Ayers 
Rock or parts of it ourselves. But the areas around the Olgas and some of the other areas, particularly to the south of Ayers Rock, should be preserved in the Aboriginal interests and those interests should override the interests of tourism. I thank the House for the opportunity to make this short statement. 

 - Mr Speaker, from earliest times, men have produced in order to live and, in later history, men have produced more in order to live better. Increased productivity - and there has throughout recorded history been increased productivity - has enabled real incomes to be increased and shorter hours to be worked or, alternatively, more holidays to be given. One wonders why this process is not possible at this moment in Australia. The answer is a very simple one: Our industrial potential has been frustrated by industrial troubles. At present, when inflation is pending over the community, this is of particular relevance. It would be irresponsible at this moment to decrease hours of work or significantly to increase real wages because such action would add to the cost of production and, if not accompanied by any increase in productivity, would result in higher prices. 
Unfortunately, strikes have been widespread. The indirect effect of strikes has been compounded by the complexity of the industrial machine. As many people are dependent for their livelihood on some type of production. The cessation of work in even a small area can bring about large losses. So, the present wave of strikes and industrial disruption has been counter productive. Even from the point of view of the workers, it has made impossible the continuation of our advance towards higher real incomes and shorter hours of work, an advance which we would want to resume as soon as possible, that is, as soon as productivity makes it possible for us to do so without increasing prices. 
Counter productive activity has come about not by chance. It has come about very largely because the trade union movement has fallen, in some regards, into extremist hands. I know that many members, even of the Government, are today worried at the extent of the advances of extremism in the trade union movement. These leftist leaders are not really trying to help members of their unions. They are trying to create misery. They are deliberately planning to lower living standards because they believe that by so doing they can produce a revolutionary situation, and they have decided to occupy sensitive pressure points in power generation and other places. Because they have worked in accordance with this plan they have been poisonously effective. 
Why are the leftist leaders more effective now than they were last year? The answer unfortunately is a clear one. They are more effective now because they have great and powerful friends here in Canberra. Disrupters are emboldened because they know that they have nothing to fear from the present Government. I recall, for example, the statements made even this morning by the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  who showed himself sympathetic to the disrupters. He encouraged them and emboldened them to go further forward. 
I think of the quite numerous statements that have been made by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren).  I know that some members of the Government are very leftist. I think that some others are just weak. This is reprehensible on menpart because they now know that they are wrong. But although they know that they are wrong, these weak people in the Australian Labor Party are unwilling or unable to withstand trade union pressures, and they go along with the Left. 
This is how revolutions can be made. This is how a country can be betrayed by its own government. What is happening should be brought to the attention of every Australian. The present wave of strikes is gathering because behind it there is the wind of Government approval - sometimes tacit, sometimes explicit, but always there, compounded partly by the leftists in die Government and partly by the weak men in the Government who should know better and dare not stand up against what they know is wrong. 
There can be no cessation of industrial troubles in Australia while the present Government remains in power. Things will get worse because of its weakness. We on this side do desire to resume the Australian national progress towards higher living standards, towards either the shortening of die working day or what I, for my part, consider far more desirable, namely an increase in the number of holidays. Surely these should be the objectives of everybody. But these objectives are now out of our reach because of what this Government has done or has failed to do. 
While we have this ideology occupying one part of the Treasury bench and weakness occupying the other part, this process must continue. I invite the House, I invite the country, to consider the way in which responsible Ministers of me Government - I have named two but if one looked at the files one would find it possible to name a great many more than two - have given encouragement to the disrupters, have shown that they are on side with them and by so doing have betrayed the real interests of the people in the trade unions. I know that trade unionists are getting sick of this Government because it is handing them over to the disrupters and the extremists. They do not want this kind of thing to occur, and that is why the Government is losing so much support in so many places. 
I believe that we should and will resume our Australian progress towards these higher living standards, towards these shorter hours of work, and we will be able to do it eventually without incurring - as we would if we did it now - the terrors of inflation. We will be able to do it because there will be a change of government which the country and the workers now need. There are from this side constructive alternatives. I do not have time to go into them now. I hope that perhaps very soon I will have an opportunity in this House of bringing forward some of the positive things which I believe can, should and will be done on the industrial front when we can get rid of the people who are at present pretending to be the friends of the workers and siding with their enemies. 
I am impressed by what the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Cooke)  has just said. It seems to me that we might go a little further because the title does not correctly describe what is in the Bill. In order to discuss the appropriateness of the title, one must look at the Bill- 
Of course. I am discussing the title of this Bill, and whether it is an appropriate title depends upon whether it correctly describes the Bill. Surely that is elementary chairmanship. I am turning my mind exactly to the point. We are discussing the title. Does the title describe the Bill appropriately? We have to consider this, and in order to consider it we must look not at the detail of the Bill, for that would be out of order, but at the general purpose and tenor of the Bill and we might look appropriately at the circumstances in which the Bill was drafted and its title was selected. I would like to move a small amendment. I move: 
Omit the word 'Trade' and insert in its place the word 'Fascist*. 
That would much more appropriately- 
Yes. 
I have done so already. It is in front of you. 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  proposed: 
That the question be now put. 
 Mr Chairman,  I have an amendment before the Chair and I ask you to- 
Will you read it please? 
 Mr Chairman,  I rise to order. It appears to me that, when I have moved an amendment for it to be formally before the Committee, under our Standing  Orders  until the question has been proposed from the Chair- 
 I am quite clear about this,  Sir. Under  our Standing Orders, until the question has been proposed from the Chair, the motion moved by the Minister is not in order. 
 I am sorry,  Sir. In  Committee no seconder is necessary. Do learn your rules,  Sir. When  you are in the Chair do learn your rules. 
 No seconder is needed in Committee. 
MrKillen - I am delighted,  Mr Chairman,  to get your confirmation that you do not dispute it. I therefore invite you to observe the contents of standing order 93 which indicates that the question put by the honourable member for Mackellar should be heard before the motion moved by the Leader of the House. It is as simple as that and I hope that discourtesy will not fly from this Parliament, no matter how much those may be encouraged to believe it should. 
 Mr Chairman,  I ask for some kind of equity in this matter. 
I am speaking to a point of order. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Clause agreed to. 
Declaration off Urgency 

 Mr DALY (Grayndler - Leader of the 
House) - I declare that the Trade Practices Bill is an urgent Bill. 
Question put - 
That the Trade Practices Bill 1973 be considered an urgent Bill. 
Last night I spoke on certain industrial matters in the debate on the motion for the adjournment of the House. The honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Riordan)  was good enough to reply to some of the things I said. I think I should place on record my views of what the honourable member said. The honourable member claimed that he had been an effective anti-communist. As to the past, let me admit quite frankly that claim. I do believe that he has in the past opposed communists. I believe, in particular, that he has opposed communists in the Federated Clerks Union of Australia. There was a very great need for him to do so because the Clerks Union's ballot machinery was corrupted by communists. A man called Hughes - a communist - was in charge of that ballot machinery. There were all sorts of malpractices going on which were difficult to disentangle. 
I wonder how the honourable member feels now when he knows that the close associate - the paid associate - of  Mr Hughes  at that time now sits on the front bench of this Parliament and is one of his leaders. I wonder how he feels when he remembers that another member of the present Labor front bench stood against the nominated Labor candidate at that time as a nominee of the Hughes-Evans communist group. Let me say in all fairness - I want to be fair in this - that I do not have evidence that the man to whom I have referred as having stood as a Hughes-Evans candidate has maintained those communist sympathies. 
I am trying to be fair. I am saying that there was a need to clean them out. I did not say that all supporters of the Government were communists or procommunist. What I did say was that some of them were pro-communist and that others - I am afraid I must include the honourable member for Phillip in this category - were weak, believing themselves, perhaps sincerely, still to be anti-communists. They are still covering up for the communists for Party purposes. I wish to quote what was said by the honourable member for Phillip last night. He referred to my statement that the communist leaders in some of these trade unions were not out to help their men get better conditions and that they were deliberately trying to destroy the conditions of their men in order to produce a revolutionary situation. Speaking of me he said: 
He sees this problem as being designed, as he puts it, to get to a revolutionary situation. That is a whole lot of eyewash. It is a load of garbage to talk in this way. It is as far from the truth as one could possibly imagine. 
I put it to the House that the honourable member for Phillip knows better; if he does not know better he should. Does he think, for example, that the builders labourers are being led by mild non-communists in Mundey and Owens? Does he not know that those men are out, in accordance with the communist textbooks, to produce a revolutionary situation by means of worker control and things of that character. 
Does the honourable member for Phillip not know that it is his duty to try to do something against them; that it is his duty to cooperate with those who are trying to do something against them, from whatever side of the House they come? Surely he knows that the communists are enemies of us all. He has a past of which he might well be proud. I hope he will have a future of which he may be equally proud in this matter. Last night - I have quoted the relevant passage - the honourable member tried to cover up for the communists. For party political purposes he was trying to whitewash what they were doing. He knows that what I said was correct. He has had experience in the trade union movement. Let him come out like a man and maintain his anti-communist stance instead of this deferment of his real feelings for party political purposes. It was not just that be used this one sentence which I have quoted. If honourable members look at his whole speech they will see that most of it is this kind of cover-up. 
The honourable member for Phillip said that the industrial trouble did not start on 2 December. That is true, but it got much worse as from 2 December. He quoted figures of days lost. Does the honourable member not know - he does know because he is in the movement - that for every day officially lost through strikes there are many other days lost through people whose work and efficiency of work is impeded because of strikes in key places organised by the left wing for exactly this purpose? Let the honourable member tell the people who have had to walk to work, the people who have suffered from blackouts, whose machines have stood idle, that all that counts is the number of days lost. Let him tell the people who know that the black market is developing because of socialist engineered shortages. They cannot get nails; they cannot get building materials; the workers stand aside because production cannot be organised. This is happening in accordance with a set plan and every Australian should be working against the people who are trying to disrupt our economy and reduce our living standards in accordance with that plan. 
I will not have time to quote or analyse the remainder of the honourable member's speech. I invite honourable members to read the speech, evaluate and assess its value as it appears in print. Surely we must find a way of getting our arbitration system accepted. It is not helped by statements such as we heard from the Minister for Housing  (Mr Les Johnson)  today in which he showed himself to be on side with the strikers, on side with the disrupters. Do you wonder that industrial ferment boils up while the disrupters know they have this kind of friend in the Government in Canberra? It is not obvious that while this kind of attitude is prevalent here in the ranks of the Commonwealth Government these will be an increase in industrial turmoil? Surely honourable members and the country know this fact and they know, perhaps, what is to be done about it. One would hope that the anti-communists on the Government side - there are such people on the Government side - will show some courage and will denounce the left wing members of their party, including their own left wing Ministers who are coming out in favour of this workers' control which the communists want. 

 - Mr 

Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I listened with some attention to what the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  said and I must say that I was not particularly impressed. This may be a weakness in my character, I do not know. I think that he is right when he points out that in the Act which this Bill supersedes - and I refer of course to the Restrictive Trade Practices Act of 1971 and particularly to sections 7 and 8 - there is a certain looseness. I think that there is in that Act the possibility of a government misusing its powers. I think this is right but in point of fact the past Government did not misuse those powers. This stands on the record and the Minister admitted it a moment ago. The Minister said a moment ago that the people we had appointed and whom he proposed to continue in office are - I think he said - fit and proper persons, and so they are. The past Government did not abuse its powers but I think it was loose and lax in leaving loopholes in the law. Those loopholes have been adopted by the present Government. The present Government cannot be trusted. Let us be quite clear about it. I go back and take up what the Minister was saying. The present Government is at the behest of a corrupt organisation, namely the Australian Labor Party Federal Conference and Executive. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  standing at the table in this place admitted that he took his riding instructions from the corrupt objectives of the- 
I have made no reflection on honourable members. I have quoted what the Prime Minister has said. I have made reflections on people outside this chamber. 
I did not say that. I suggest that you,  Mr Chairman,  have a look at Hansard. I said that the Prime Minister had agreed that he took his riding instructions from an outside body. 
I am coming back exactly to the point that the Minister at the table made. 
The Minister for Services and Property, who is at the table, said that this Government will not appoint corrupt people. I am saying that it is not for the Minister at the table to say that because his Leader, the Prime Minister, has said that he took his riding instructions from an outside body. That is not Parliament. I know it is a corrupt body. The Australian Labor Party Conference and Executive are corrupt. 
I make no reflections on honourable members. 
Apparently the Prime Minister is that naive because he himself has said at the table - I heard him myself and it is in Hansard- 
All I am saying is that the Minister for Services and Property did not impress me very much because what he said cannot be substantiated. It is directly contrary to the observed facts and as evidence for that I cite the words of the Prime Minister. Surely I am not liable to be sat down if I cite the words of the Prime Minister. 
I go back to the loopholes. I agree that the old Act did have within it certain loopholes. They were not abused and this is admitted. 
We do not trust this mob, that is right, and the country does not trust them. The country has every reason to distrust them. I have seen the police reports of what has gone on inside the ALP - and by the way- 
I quite understand the sensitivity and I will therefore- 
Thank you. This Tribunal will have very wide powers. It is not, of course, within my power to discuss those powers in relation to the set of clauses under discussion because you,  Mr Chairman,  would very properly rule me out of order if I were to do that. But I make the passing observation that the Tribunal will have very wide powers. I therefore say that in the present context it would be much better if a limit were set on the number of possible appointees. I look, for example, at clause 30 of the Bill. The number of people who can be appointed to the Tribunal is unlimited. This seems to me to be wrong. Let me agree with the Government that this laxity was in the previous Act but that Act was drafted by an honest government and it was not abused. During the whole of its operations that Government did not abuse the powers. We were wrong to leave this loophole. I do not think we should readopt it now that we have sitting on the Treasury bench a government of a less trustworthy kind. 
I think I should reply to some of the matters raised by the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Riordan).  I have never made any criti cism of a judge, nor indeed can I make any criticism of somebody by. name who may be appointed in the future, because that would be entirely unfair, not knowing who will be appointed. To be asked to do this is quite monstrous. But I do know from first hand what happens inside certain parts of the Labor Party. I remind the honourable member of something in which I was personally concerned. It was I who took the action which initiated the Doyle Commission. The terms of reference of the Doyle Commission were artfully drawn to prevent the real truth from being known. I make no criticism of the judge, but I do say that Joe Arthur carried the can-- 
 . . . for a large number of his colleagues. 
The honourable member for Phillip- Hansard will show this - put out a challenge to me. I was taking up and answering that challenge. He now takes a point of order to prevent my doing so. So I will not proceed. I was answering directly the challenge which he gave. I have an answer to it. But if he takes points of order he stands condemned himself. He should know this. However, I say something to his credit. I know that in the past he has been instrumental against Communist corruption in trade unions. I give him credit for this. I ask him to remember his own past. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Yes, I second the motion. I endorse the remarks of my friend the honourable member for Moreton (Mt Killen). I feel as he does, that this is a complete disgrace and an abuse of the parliamentary forms and practices. We had completed consideration only up to clause 44 of the Bill. Clauses 45 to 51 were under discussion when time ran out. I remind you,  Mr Speaker,  that at the time the guillotine came down the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Viner)  had asked a question and the Minister for Secondary Industry  (Mr Enderby)  had not replied. This perhaps may not be considered altogether significant because nearly all the questions that have been asked from this side of the House, many of them technical questions, have not been replied to. The most important parts of the Bill are those parts which have not been debated. 
If you will look at the Green Paper which was presented to this House yesterady,  Sir, you  will see that it was the Government's original intention to complete consideration of the Bill yesterday, almost without debate. The third reading was put down. When we started to bring up matters in regard to this Bill the guillotine was applied. This did not give us time to speak about the really relevant matters. I mentioned that at the time the guillotine came down we were considering clauses 45 to 51. Related to these clauses is a drafting provision which may well exercise the attention of the Government. I was hopeful of bringing forward this matter, but I was not allowed to do so. It would appear that an error has been made because these clauses which impose liabilities, the neglect of which constitute offences, have been drawn in such a way that in the Territories - I speak only of the Territories - the trade unions will be brought within the ambit of these clauses. I think that this was not the intention of the Government. I do not think that the Government meant to do this. But as I have said there has been a drafting error. These clauses apply to corporations. 
If honourable members look at the Bill they will see that the definition of 'corporation* includes a body corporate that is incorporated in a Territory. Outside the Territories it applies only to financial and trading corporations. But in a Territory it applies to all the bodies corporate. That would include for certain the North Australian Workers Union and it may well include the branches of other unions which are operated inside the Territories. I do not think that the Government meant to do this. I think it is just a drafting error. But because we- have not had time to debate the Bill, because I did not get a chance to raise this matter and ask the Minister a question in regard to it, it would appear that this Bill as it is going through this House does not even carry out the intentions of the Government. Many honourable members have drawn attention to the slipshod and ambiguous terms in which this Bill is drafted. For example - here I have to say something which, I am afraid, is of some significance - the Industrial Court can apply penalties up to $250,000 for very ill-defined actions. 
Yes, that is what I am saying. 
Yes,  Sir. I  am endeavouring to do that. What I am saying is that there are matters which have not been considered in Committee. The matter to which 1 referred was never considered in Committee because it was never reached in Committee. Because this matter is of such importance and has not been discussed in Committee the Bill should be re-committed. That is one of the reasons why the Bill should be re-committed. This very important matter was not reached in Committee and has never been debated in this House. 
Under the provisions of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act which established the Court there is no provision for appeal from the Court. It is a fair and a good Court as it stands today. But I find that yesterday an amendment to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act was passed by the Senate, and it empowers the Government to destroy this Court because it removes the limit on the number of judges that can be appointed. Now we can have a kangaroo court which the Government can- 
This is the reason,  Sir. I  am saying that these are matters which have not been debated in Committee and for that reason the Bill should be re-committed. Surely I am within the bounds of Standing Orders in saying this. I am not trying to deal with the details of the Bill. I am pointing out that there are major matters in the Bill which require consideration in Committee and that these matters have never been reached in Committee and they have not been discussed by the Committee. This is a reason for re-committing the Bill. 
I want to reiterate what has been said by my friends on this side of the House that the Opposition is not opposed to the principle of this Bill. In many ways we think it an ineffectual Bill but we think also that the real purpose of it has not been revealed as yet. It seems to us that the real purpose of the Bill goes far beyond what its sponsors put forward. We want to control abuses in business and the abuses of monopolies. These are cries which find an echo on this side of the House. We started the process when we were in government. It is quite right and proper that we should help the process to proceed. But we are very dubious as to the methods by which this Government proposed to proceed. We are very dubious indeed as to the bona fides of the Government. It seems to some of us that the Government is lying low. It has its plans of socialisation. This Bill is part of them. This little quirk about the Industrial 
Court dovetails in with the contents of this Bill. 
We have not had a chance to discuss this. We have not had a chance to look at it. It is very easy for the Government to come forward and say that it is in favour of open Government and of telling the people everything. The Government says that it is in favour of letting the House debate these matters. But the House has not had an opportunity of debating them. We loked at the blue business sheet when this matter was first brought forward by the Government and we saw that it proposed to proceed to the third reading stage on that same night. This Bill is perhaps one of the most far-reaching that has ever been brought into the Parliament. 
The real reason why it should be re-committed it that this is a most important Bill with very far-reaching consequences - a Bill of which the Opposition has the very gravest suspiscions, although it supports the professed intention of the Bill. While these things are true, we have not as yet had an opportunity to debate those matters. This basically is the reason for the recommittal proposal. There are 2 sides to the argument. The first side is that we have not had a chance to debate the Bill in detail. As I said, of the 169 clauses, including the most important clauses, debate was concluded on only the first 44 clauses. Debate on clauses 45 to 51 was part heard. But the clauses after clause 51 had not been considered at all. 
This is disgraceful. It is quite clear that much more time should have been available for the consideration of this measure before it came into the House and for the debate on this measure in the House. I am not saying for one moment that there need to be indefinite delay or an indefinite deferment of the legislation, but we were faced from the start with evidence of Government bad faith in the handling of this Bill. The Government has to be thoroughly ashamed of itself and it has to take to odium and the blame for what it is doing in this Parliament with this Bill, as in other matters. Time and time again important 
Bills have been brought into this Parliament by this Government and steam-rolled through at the last moment. 
 Except that it shows the pattern,  Mr Speaker. 
Let me join up the argument for you,  Sir, if  I may. I am saying that this Bill should be recommitted because there is bad faith on the part of the Government behind it, and as evidence of that bad faith I am showing what the Government has done in other cases to show pattern - to show system, I think is the lawyers' phrase - in regard to these matters. This is part of a pattern and the Opposition has the gravest suspicions. That could be argued by the Government but what could not be argued by the Government is that the questions asked in Committee on the earlier clauses of this Bill have not been answered by the Minister. The Minister from time to time evaded not all but I think 95 per cent of the questions that have been asked on technical grounds by honourable members on this side of the House. The drawing of the Bill is sloppy. The definitions are very ambiguous. Nobody will know where they stand. It has a horrid arbitrariness about it, and this is something which opens 'the way to all sorts of fear and malpractice. To some extent, this Bill will be ineffectual in repressing those evils which we on both sides of the House agree should be repressed. The Bill in some respects should be strengthened and made better. I hope I have made a case to the House. I am sorry that I have from time to time offended you,  Mr Speaker,  and that you have had to call my mind to some technical transgressions. I think I have been within my proper terms of reference throughout. I have given to the House sound and solid reasons why this Bill should now be recommitted and should not be steamrollered through as the Government is trying to do. 
I will not delay the House very long but there are a few important things that must be said. I listened with attention to the Minister for Housing  (Mr Les Johnson),  who rightly said that more houses were needed, and one of the reasons he gave was that there had not been enough planning in the past. That may be true, but the primary reason why there are not more houses now is the unrest and industrial disturbance that is taking place in the building industry. This is not just a matter of strikes; this is also a matter of shortages, with men working inefficiently because they cannot get material and because they cannot get things delivered on time. Young couples are being deprived of houses because of the planned chaos in the industry. 
Apparently the Minister did not want to say anything about that. However, unfortunately for him, he has said something about it, and I wish to draw the attention of the House to a pamphlet called 'Shelter' which apparently is put out by the Minister and which is paid for out of public funds. Most of this pamphlet consists of pro-communist propaganda. There is an article in it called 'Switched On' by the Sydney Residents Action Group, and we. all know for whom they are a front. Then we have an article entitled 'Those Green Bans' by a man named Thomas and finally an article entitled 'Strangling the Unemployment Ghost' by a man named Jack Mundey, a communist, who is leading the disruptive tactics in the building industry and who is in cahoots with the Minister. It is true that at the end of the pamphlet 'Shelter' there is a note to this effect: 
The views expressed by contributors to 'Shelter' do not necessarily represent Government policy, the personal attitudes of the Minister for Housing,  Mr Les  Johnson, nor official views of the Department. 
Fair enough, but if one wants to know what the views of the Minister are, one goes first to Hansard and looks at an answer that he gave to a question on 7 November last in which he showed himself completely on side with the strikers. Next one goes to a Press release by the Minister on the same date, in which again he puts himself completely on side with the strikers. He talks about an illegal lockout of unionists. That was his phrase. It was not an illegal lockout; there was nothing illegal about it. 
Furthermore, the Minister did nothing while the building workers organised strike after strike and brought the industry to chaos in accordance with a plan. Yet the Minister sat silent because he is on side with them. That is one of the reasons why there has been this upsurge of industrial strife. The strikers know that they have a great and powerful friend here in Canberra, and that is why there can never be industrial peace in Australia while this Government remains in office, and this Government is run by the left wing on these industrial matters. 
Now I come to an interview on, I think, This Day Tonight', again on 7 November, given by the Minister. It is still in the same vein, still in complete accord with the strikers. If permission were given me, I should like to have the text of that interview incorporated in Hansard. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)Is  leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 
Richard Carlton -  Mr Johnson,  can I put to you the proposition that you are adopting in essence a double standard; financial penalties on builders who engage in lockouts, on penal clauses, no financial penalties on unions who engage in strikes. 

 Mr Johnson Well, I'm responsible for building Government works throughout Australia, Australian Government works, the fact of the matter is, those works were just standing there, not involved with the green bans dispute in any way, I've had no trouble from trade unionists, all that's occurred is that  Mr Martin,  in a very aggressive and belligerant and an unjustifiable way in my view, has decided to lock out the workers. So there's twenty four million dollars worth of project's come to a standstill. 
Richard Carlton- But surely  Sir, I  mean, that is a double standard though, you want to impose penalties on the builders for engaging in lockouts, but no penalties on the unions for engaging in strikes. 

 Mr Johnson No I'm not handling the unionists on the job at all, if there's any action, and there hasn't been any action taken by the trade union members in respect of Government contractors, or contracts, if there had been, it would be the job of the contractors, to take the unions through the arbitration system. 
Richard Carlton -  But it is the Government's position though, that there shall be no penal clauses on unions, so, I mean, if you're proposing that penal clauses on employers will solve industrial disputes that involve lockouts, why can't the same standard be applied, penal clauses and penalties on unionists for engaging in strikes? 

 Mr Johnson Well, first you've got to observe the fact that to move into Government projects has got nothing to do with industrial disputes, which is about green bans. We're simply saying that we have the obligation and the contractors have the obligation to get the work done in terms of the contract, here seems to be no justification for locking people out. Now if it's going to cost the Government money, it's obvious that we should be looking at ways and means of putting into the contract provision which will enable us to recoup the additional expense. 
Richard  Carlton- Penalties. 

 Mr Johnson Penalties, yes. 
Richard Carlton - So  this is a delicate industrial situation and the terms of  Mr Martin,  that I quoted a moment ago, that er - aren't you just being as tough as he is, though, in this occasion, is there no room for a little delicacy on your part as well? 

 Mr Johnson Well, I don't think so, look I have very good relationships with the Master Builders Association, I get commendatory remarks from many of their executive officers from all over Australia, it seems to me that since  Mr Martin  has arrived on the scene we've had nothing but trouble, and now it seems that there is a tie-up between  Mr Martin  and the Government in the State elections situation in New South Wales. I can't see why the taxpayer should have to bear the brunt of  Mr Martin's  political prejudices. 
Richard Carlton -  Well, could you elaborate on that  Sir, what  do you mean by that, it's put rather abstrusely 

 Mr Johnson Well, it just seems to me that  Mr Martin  is involved in the business of setting the stage for a police confrontation with Trade Unionists, now so far as I'm concerned, I'm not going to allow this to cause the projects, very big projects too,  to increase  in price or to have them delayed in such a way that the community will suffer. These jobs involve telephone exchanges, defence projects, many great projects that concern public welfare. 
Richard  Carlton -  That's a serious charge you've made against  Mr Martin,  he'll most certainly have yet another opportunity  to  appear on the program, but let me just conclude with another point. Which is more serious in this situation, these odd lockouts that are occurring in Sydney in just  a  few contracts, or beit, 24 or 30 million, or what ever, which is more serious, those few lockouts, or the great spate of industrial unrest that is causing disruption is just so many areas of activity. 

 Mr Johnson Well, the lockouts are important, I look after my own affairs, arid it's only the lockouts which are disrupting the Government building program  in  Sydney. 
I think it will be interesting for the readers of Hansard to know just how far the Minister has gone in his sympathies with the building workers, and in expressing those sympathies in a television interview. It is interesting also to note that the Minister said in the interview, and he said in the House a moment ago, that he was concerned only with getting government projects going. That is strange, is it not? When government projects were held up - for example the Mail Exchange at South Sydney - by building union extremists, the Minister did nothing. Indeed, if I may quote from the transcript of the interview on This Day Tonight' with  Mr Richard  Carlton the Minister said: 'It is only the lockouts which are disrupting the Government building program in Sydney'. The Minister knows perfectly well that that is not true. He knows how the building workers walked off the South Sydney project while the cement was still wet and half poured. Of course the Minister knows it, and he did nothing about it. This double standard, to which the interviewer on "This Day Tonight' drew attention, is evident in the actions of the Minister and in the actions of the Government on the industrial front. 
Not only the Minister for Housing is involved. I think,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  you would properly call me to order if I mentioned what other Ministers were doing on this same plan. I make passing reference to the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  and to the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  who have been cooperating in this plan to incite the strikers to defy authority. I am not trying to condemn the building labourers and workers themselves. 1 am talking of their leaders who are misleading them and who are not really endeavouring to obtain good conditions for them. 
What their leaders are doing is trying to bring about what they call a revolutionary situation. We have already had a minor revolutionary situation. They succeeded in doing this. This is a rehearsal for revolution. They think that perhaps it will take them 6 years, 7 years or 8 years to foment these incidents so that each one leads to something more significant and more important. But all the time they can only go ahead because they have the sympathy of Ministers here in Canberra. 
The Minister for Housing, who is at the table, should know very well what the Communists are up to. Before he was elected to this chamber he was a paid official of a communist union which was run by Jackie Hughes. I  do not know how close to Jackie Hughes he was. Perhaps he will tell us. But because of his association with activities in those days he must be perfectly well aware of what the Communists are up to. That being so, why does he co-operate with them now? People who are duped in this manner can be excused. They do not know what the left wing is up to. There are plenty of people of good intention who co-operate without knowing what it is all about. But one cannot expect a Minister of the Crown to be as innocent as that. One certainly cannot expect a person who, in his past, has been associated with this kind of organisation and disruption to be as innocent as that. I am not trying to denigrate the Minister' e past. I am simply saying that, because he has had that kind of past, he must know what is being done now with respect to these so-called green bans. 
There is nothing so treacherous as a badintentioned person with a good cause. Some of these causes were initially good. But they were not adopted by the Communists for any good purpose. They were adopted in order to suck in innocent people. For example, I know plenty of socialites in Sydney who have been sucked in. They have not realised what they were being used for. But surely that kind of excuse cannot be applied in respect of Ministers in Canberra. They must know what it is all about. When they make statements such as the Press statement which was issued by the Minister for Housing on  7  November, or even the passage that I have quoted from Hansard or, equally, the interview on 'This Day Tonight', surely they know what it is all about. The same kind of excuse cannot be given for these Ministers as one would afford other people who have not had experience in this type of game. I do not wish to overstress this matter. 
I do not wish to overstress it. I do not wish to make out that the plans for revolution have gone any further than in point of fact they have. I think that the common sense of the Australian people will assert itself and that even the workers in the building industry will see that the union leaders have been misleading them and organising them to operate against their own real interests. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
The Minister for Works  (Mr Les Johnson)  has made some remarks which I think should be answered briefly, and I shall not take more than 5 minutes to do so. He has shown his sympathy-- 
Motion (by  Mr  Daly) agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Proposed expenditures agreed to. 
Department of  Health 
Proposed expenditure, $65,797,000. 
Repatriation Department 
Proposed expenditure, $507,387,000. 
Department of Social Security 
Proposed expenditure, $86,084,000. 
There are many things about the Government's social security program with which, naturally, I find myself in great sympathy for the simple reason that they represent a continuance  of  the activities and the attitudes which were initiated under a previous government. I would be the last person to criticise many of the things that have been done. I would rather talk about some of the things which have not been done and which I hope will be done in the very near future. The Government introduced a proposal - which I certainly commend - to pay special allowances for what are called double orphans. It is a peculiar phrase. I do not suppose any orphan is anything but a double orphan. It was a good proposal. However, in my view, it did not go far enough and it did not touch the main heart of the problem. In saying this, I speak with disappointment because I hoped that the previous Government would do something more in this regard. It is a good thing that the Government is doing something for children who have lost both their parents. In the past this responsibility has fallen within the provision of the States and their child welfare departments. Perhaps the States have done as much as they could in this field, but because they have been short of money they have not done as much as they should have done. So I commend this proposal. 
Another related group that should be helped are widowers with dependent children. I suppose that one has to extend the definition of widower to include deserted husbands and divorced men whose children are still dependent upon them. But I speak primarily of those who have lost their wives through death. It is an appalling situation that nothing has been done for these people. We have nothing equivalent to a widow's pension. I wonder whether the women's liberation group might think of doing something along these lines. If one talks about equality of the sexes, something has to be done for those men, whose wives have died, have dependent children and find it difficult to carry on. 
Then we have not a new class but a class which is unhappily becoming much more common, and I speak statistically, not morally, of the deserted father. Not very long ago it was fairly uncommon for a woman to leave her husband and abandon him with the children. This, unhappily, is now becoming much more common, and something should be done for men placed in that situation. The proposal that I make is quite a simple one. We should start by paying what I would call a motherless child's allowance. It would be paid to children who have lost both parents. Sure, they are motherless. This proposal to some extent, has been covered by the Government's scheme. 
A motherless child's allowance could also be paid in respect of children who are in the custody of their father either because their mother is dead or because she has deserted the family home and has left the children uncared for. This would be a matter of some consequence. If my memory is correct, this proposal would cost up to $15m a year. It is not entirely a trivial matter, although it is not a very great one in terms of government expenditure. In my view, this is about the worst gap in the whole of our social service structure. There are other gaps, and some things are more massive, but let us do something for these people. I am ashamed to think that we have done nothing for them yet. I am not trying to score a point off the present Government because I am afraid I would be scoring a point off previous governments in this regard. It is an appalling gap in our whole social service setructure 
I do not think that it is appropriate just to pay a widow's pension to widowers. It is true that with the existing tapered means test and the increase in the 'free area' to $20 it is still possible for a man to earn something. A man traditionally is the breadwinner. I do not think it is right to put him in the position of having to stay at home in order to receive the widow's pension or whatever one likes to call it. Perhaps some kind of housekeepers' allowance could be paid or some help could be given to board out the children so that they could come home at weekends. People will want different things. I do not think that the Government would want to impose a set pattern on all these men, but I suggest to the Government that this is an area in which we could be moving and in which we could be investigating. I hope that it will be more than an investigation. I hope at least that a motherless child's allowance will be introduced in the near future and that later it will be supplemented by a housekeepers' allowance or something like the mother's allowance that is given. This allowance could be given, in my view, free of means test because the widower, as distinct from the widow, would not be receiving the normal widow's pension. It is a terrible hardship for a man who has lost his wife - even by desertion and much worse if he has lost her by death - to find that he is placed in a financial position in which he has to break up his young family and perhaps lose contact with his dependent children. If he is lucky he may have a mother,- a sister, or a relative who will come to his rescue, but even in that case some kind of extra financial assistance should be available. If there is to be a breakup during the week days at least there should be provision whereby under such circumstances the family could be reunited at the weekend. I commend this suggestion to the Government. 
I would have liked to have spoken at much greater length on some other matters but time does not permit. I reiterate what I said before and that is that the most massive problem that lies in front of us - not the most acute but the most massive - in the field of social services is, I think, help for the young couple with a forming family. I refer to the position of a couple starting a marriage with 2 incomes coming into the family. They have no children. There is a change in that position when the first child arrives. The wife stops working, or should stop work. She should be in a position to choose to live at home. At that time, when their income diminishes, the needs of the family increase. We have not in the past, I think, had sufficient vision to see that something must be done about this situation. If our social structure is to become secure we must think not only of the young people but also primarily of the young people with a forming family. Other people are perhaps not so badly off. But young people with a forming family are a class of people who are due for real assistance when the social security program is expanded, as I believe it will be. I do not believe, of course, in the welfare state as such. The welfare state has - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Sitting suspended from 6.13 to 8 p.m. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Tourism and Recreation. Does he agree that Australians have a long tradition of horsemanship, running from the stockman to 'The man from Snowy River', the Light Horse and beyond? Does he realise that, while the racing tradition is still vigorous, the majority of urban Australians have lost touch with the remainder of this tradition so that many city children have not even had the opportunity to touch a horse, much less ride one? Does he agree that it would be desirable if these older Australian associations with the horse were maintained and made more readily available, especially to city children from less affluent families? Will he also agree that the maintenance of this Australian tradition would add significantly to recreation opportunities for people of all ages and that it would be a significant tourist attraction? Finally, as a worthwhile gesture to mark the wedding of the Princess Anne, will the Minister support a proposal for the immediate setting up of a small committee of this House to devise and recommend means of achieving these objectives? 
I seek leave to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. Earlier this morning the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  said that members sitting behind the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden),  who includes myself, were hoping that the conference which he was calling on labour relations would fail. I have never criticised the calling of this conference. I have only criticised the proposals which the Minister has said he was going to put before the conference, which if pressed unfortunately would mean the failure of the conference. I make it clear that I hope that any conference called will succeed. 
I cannot hope to match the eloquence and oratory of the honourable member for Banks  (Mr Martin),  who has just sat down. I am afraid that I cannot even meet him on untriteness and untruisms, which he so rightly deprecates. I was a little distressed by what the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  said about the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson).  One knows that the Minister has had his disappointments and that his ineffectuality has rather soured him. But I do not think that it is altogether cricket to lay into him as the Leader of the Country Party laid into him a few minutes ago. Rather let us extend him a little sympathy. This question of northern development is always bedevilled by a number of difficulties. One thinks, of course, of the interests of our Aboriginal people in the north, and one hopes that the policy which the former Government implemented of involving Aborigines in the advantages of development will be continued and maintained. 
But I want to mention one or two specific matters. The first is this: The world food shortage it seems, is now becoming endemic since population apparently has overtaken the margin that was afforded us by the impact of the green revolution. If this is so, food production in the north may become more important than we have been inclined to think. Meat, of course, is the primary food product of the north. I do not know that it will always remain so. Rice cultivation may still come into the north. With areas in the north being suitable for the long-grained rice and with an assured water supply, the north may turn out to be the main rice bowl of Australia. 
The honourable member for Banks remarked that this northern country was dry and arid. Of course, he could not have been more wrong. The north of Australia has not only the highest rainfall in Australia but also it has the most regular rainfall. It is true that it is concentrated over a few months of the year with the monsoon, but it is .till a high and regular rainfall and it can be utilised for production. I say, therefore, that in the future the top of Australia may well be one of our most important food producing areas. I well remember going to Alice Springs - I think it was in 1950 but certainly it was many years ago- and speaking to people who alleged they were experts in pastoral and agricultural projects in the Northern Territory. In referring to the Top End- that is, the Arnhem Land and Daly River areas - .they said: 'There is only one thing to do with it and that is to get a bulldozer and push it into the sea'. They could not have been more wrong, because that high rainfall area will turn out to be the food production area, in the major sense of the term, for the Northern Territory. 
Cape York Peninsula as well as the Northern Territory has immense possibilities, both in its eastern and western falls. In parts of Western Australia - although the land is not as promising as that in Arnhem Land or Cape York; the surface is not as good - in some of the valleys, particularly in the Ord River valley, there is a chance for major development. But overshadowing food production is the possibility of mineral development. I believe that we have not yet been paying sufficient attention to the possibility of phosphate development from the southern tip of the Gulf of Carpentaria. This is an area north of Mount Isa. Its possibilities have not yet been sufficiently evaluated. 
I know that there is always difficulty about a port on the Gulf of Carpentaria because nearly all the water around its shores is shallow. In the past there was a tendency to believe that the deep water port would be to the west of the Gulf by Borroloola at the Pellow Islands there. This was thought to be where at would go. But with the possible development of high volume phosphate exports from the eastern side it may well be that the deep water port will have to be established in the Burketown area. Wherever and whenever it is established, there is a large hinterland which, not only from the agricultural point of view but even more from the mineral point of view, will be susceptible to major development. 
I wanted to draw the Government's attention to the need to develop a deep water port on the Gulf of Carpentaria and to the possibilities of mineral exports from it, particularly the large volume phosphate exports from the very considerable phosphate rock resources which lie in that whole area. That area is one of the most highly mineralised areas of the world. Mount Isa has been found, but I believe that there is every reason to expect that other Mount Isas will be found in this area. We have here a mineral treasure which I consider to be one of the great assets of Australia. 
Finally may I say something about the roads and communications to the north. At present there is a good railway to Marree and a rickety railway from Marree to Alice Springs. The past Government decided, and I believe the present Government will continue with the plans, to abandon that rickety railway from Alice Springs and put a line up from the Kingoonya area, from the transcontinental railway, along higher ground, passing to the west of Oodnadatta and going up into the Alice Springs area. I think that this is probably a good decision. But when it is made and when the old rickety line is abandoned, as it will be, the road should go up from Marree roughly via the line of the old railway line, because the old communities cannot be left stranded without communication. 
I had an opportunity only recently of travelling along this road. I believe that there is some misapprehension about the difficulties of the area and the way in which they can be met. The area is, for a large part, swampy, low-lying, muddy and difficult to get through. But with modern earth-moving machinery it is possible to bank up the road. What would have been expensive before we had this modern earth-moving machinery is now a comparatively cheap method of building an all-weather road. The clayey loam in the area, if heaped up and allowed to consolidate, will be a solid and permanent base. Not much water runs through it, and the major streams that do run through it can be met effectively with concrete dish drains or later on with larger permanent bridges. There are not many of them, and the engineering difficulties are much less than were previously supposed. 
I suggest that when the correct decision is made and the railway goes up to the west, the road from Adelaide, Melbourne and Sydney should be taken up through the Marree area. This would be the proper line for a road into the Northern Territory. I will not go into the details of it. I can only tell honourable members that I have been over the area. I happen to know the area personally and I am quite certain that this is the correct thing to do. 

Last week I spoke about some of the defects in the workings of our arbitration system. Tonight I wish to complete my remarks by making one or two concrete and definite suggestions for its improvement, I believe it is a good thing that in the case of any pending industrial dispute there should be a conference and that every effort should be made to settle the dispute on that level. But that type of system is not workable unless, if the conference breaks down, there is some kind of umpire who will be accepted by both parties. The umpire must be the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. So what we have to do is get the situation where the Arbitration Commission is accepted by both sides. For this to occur there has to be no sense of grievance on either side and, in particular, there must be no opportunity for a just grievance to be exacerbated into further trouble. 
When I look at the operation of the system I see two kinds of grievances which may lead to employees not accepting the verdict of the umpire. The first of these grievances is the more important. It is the delay in getting a verdict in getting a new award or some kind of new determination. I know that in recent years these delays have been cut down very much, but they still exist, and I think that there is still a justified resentment at too much legalism in the arbitration system itself. I know that legalism cannot be eliminated entirely, but I have one suggestion which I think it is a fair suggestion. Where there is a delay there should be some kind of arrangement whereby awards should automatically be retrospective to, say, four or five weeks after the lodging of the original application. I think that this is a reasonable thing. It hasto be worked out. It is not something which can be taken and left at that. It should be worked out with some safeguards. 
For example, I suggest that this privilege would not operate if, in the course of a hearing, there were strikes or other violations of an impending award of the Commission or even of an existing award. Therefore I suggest that, subject to such kinds of safeguards, which would have to be worked out in detail, it is a fair thing that awards should contain a retrospective content when they operate in order to increase wages or in other ways to improve conditions. I think that is something which needs to be worked out in detail, but it is a principle which I think we should consider. 
The other matter is something which, to some extent, has been met by the amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act which the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  has introduced. I certainly commend his proposal in this respect The other matter which can cause an industrial disturbance pending a determination is a safety issue. One could well imagine that where there is a genuine safety issue there could be a disturbance or even a strike. What we want to do is to reduce and get rid of the genuine safety issues. This can be done by attaching to the Commission officers who can be skilled in particular industries and who will be available as. officers of the Commission to go and make some kind of interim determination on a safety issue. As I have said, I believe that the legislation introduced by the Minister has, to some extent, achieved this, but I think that we could enlarge upon his principles even further by attaching these safety officers to the Commission. Where these conditions are satisfied and where there are no delays or justified safety disputes, there is no reason why there should be a strike pending the determination of the Commission. I suggest that where these conditions are satisfied strikes should not occur. 
Let us look at the general principles. A man has, and subject to the requirements of public safety should always maintain, the freedom to withdraw his own labour. This is a human freedom which I think honourable members on both sides of the House would support. He even should have freedom to organise in a union, subject, of course, to not violating a determination of the umpire, the Commission. I am not suggesting that there should never be a strike. I am not going as far as that. What I am saying is that in a proper system there should never be a strike against the decision of the umpire because the decision of the umpire should have this retrospective clause in it. I suggest that there should be this freedom to organise in unions and it should be maintained, subject to the arbitration authority and, of course, to emergencies which could be created by sudden withdrawal of labour in an organised fashion where the government must intervene. 
Where there is an industrial dispute in contravention of either an arbitration decision or justified government intervention, the people on strike should not be considered to have rights maintained in respect of their employment; nor should they have any approval or support when they prevent other people from taking their jobs in such unjustified strikes. If we were to adopt principles of this character I believe that most workers and most employers would accept them, then I think we could get rid of the kind of industrial strife which is now marring our industrial output and preventing the attainment of higher living standards by all Australians. This, of course, would be subject to the good will of both sides, and that good will cannot be guaranteed if on the trade union side there are officials who are not trying to help their men, such as by getting them better conditions, but are trying to organise disruption as a plan for some kind of incipient revolution. 
Therefore, I make this final suggestion: Where there has been a strike in contravention of the industrial arbitration authority or in contravention of government intervention, a small percentage of the members of the union concerned should be entitled to call for a ballot for the election of the officers of their union. There should be the right of recall when union officials have engaged in an unnecessary and illegal strike. That right of recall does not mean that the union would not have the opportunity to re-elect whatever officer it thought fit; but it would serve as a salutary brake on the excesses of certain union officers. I believe that this right of recall in the hands of trade unionists- 
This may well be so and it may well be that we might think of it along those lines too. But I am not directing my mind to that at the moment. What I am saying is that the right of recall in the hands of members of the union, where there has been an industrial disturbance and a loss of wages might operate to alleviate industrial disputes. 

 - Mr Speaker, I was misrepresented by the honour.oble member for Phillip  (Mr Riordan)  a few moments ago. I thank him for his complimentary reference to me; but he spoke about a vote which I cast in this chamber. If he recalls the circumstances to his mind, he will remember that the clauses concerned did not come up in this chamber because the Bill was guillotined; so we did not have a vote on them. Therefore, he might withdraw the false things that he said about me, if he would not mind. 
I second the motion. The point that the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  made is an important and a serious one. The requirements of section 128 of the Constitution are that in certain cases Bills for alteration of the Constitution be carried by an absolute majority. It says: 'If either House passes any such proposed law by an absolute majority'. The Constitution requires the House to pass such a Bill by an absolute majority. The House cannot pass the Bill unless the Standing Orders of the House are obeyed. If this matter went to the High Court on the question of fact I think it would be at least likely that the High Court would rule that since the House had not obeyed its own Standing Orders, the absolute majority had not been obtained. 

 Mr Speaker, we are trying to help you in this because we do not want the position to arise, as it may well arise from tonight's proceedings, that the High Court would be held to rule on a question of fact as to what happened in this House. There are precedents in May and other places, I understand, for legal rulings of that character, especially on a constitutional point. I know,  Sir, that  you were in difficulties because there was no call from this side. You may even have been in difficulties because no tellers were appointed from this side. I recognise these difficulties, but under the Standing Orders of the House there is a proper way to get over them. I am trying to be helpful, and I am prepared to tell you the proper procedure which would put this matter beyond doubt. I warn you and I warn the House that the proceedings that we have just been through do not conform to the Standing Orders of the House, and since they do not conform to the Standing Orders of the House it cannot be said that the House has passed this Bill by an absolute majority. If that cannot be said, certain legal consequences follow from the terms of the Constitution. Those legal consequences would have to be tested as a matter of fact in the High Court. 
I appeal to you,  Sir, to  put this matter beyond doubt, to go through the proper procedures, because proper procedures are available to the Government on which I will be willing to instruct the Government if necessary. I think that the Government probably knows what they are. There are proper procedures to go through if a matter of constitutional law is involved. The matter of the alteration of the Constitution is a most delicate point. It is provided for under section 128 of the Constitution. Where the High Court has as its supreme function the interpretation of the Australian Constitution I submit to you,  Sir, that  this House and you should play safe, that we should go through the proper procedures and that we should deal with this Bill in accordance with the proper procedures of this House as laid down in the Standing Orders. 
The honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  has drawn your attention to a matter in which the Standing Orders have been violated. The honourable member for Moreton has drawn your attention to another matter in which the Standing Orders have been violated, ft may be that the Standing Orders are wrong; it may be that they should be changed; I do not know. But while the Standing Orders are in print this House has to observe them and you,  Sir, are  not in a position to rule in absolute defiance of the Standing Orders. I am not a lawyer but I put it as a point of substantial law, I appeal to you even at this stage and I appeal to the Government to get on the right foot, to do this thing in the right way and to see that the legal forms of the Standing Orders are observed so that the requirements of the Constitution can be properly met without challenge in the High Court. 
I think that earlier today I made a slip of the tongue. I understand it has been corrected in Hansard but I thought I should properly report this to the House. It was the Leader of the House whose condition I thought was partly responsible for the confusion last night. 
I have to bring before the House a somewhat serious matter which may make it necessary later for a motion to be moved against a Minister for having culpably misled this House. In order to make the position clear I shall rehearse the relevant sequence of events. On 10 October the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  made statements in this House and outside it which he said were crucial to his case on the incomes referendum - statements to the effect that the share of the national income of wage earners had fallen. This statement was patently false. It was denied by, among other people, the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  as the previous Minister for Secondary Industry. On 2 October, just a little over a week previously, the Minister issued a Press statement which I read. It states:  . . . wages and salaries before tax as a proportion of gross domestic product have remained pretty stable, hovering between 58.1 per cent in 1960-61 and 61.5 per cent in 1972-73. 
On 11 October in this House I exposed the falsity of the Prime Minister's statement and I laid on the table of the House figures compiled by the research section of the Parliamentary Library, which showed the true position. I may have expressed myself somewhat forcibly. Perhaps you would recall,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that because of the vigour of my expression I was suspended from the House for 24 hours on that occasion. But I thought that it was important to draw attention to the culpable falsity of what the Prime Minister had been saying. Therefore, in the next few days I caused to be inserted in certain Sydney newspapers, advertisements setting out the factual position. Then, on 16 October, in answer to a question from his own side of the House - this is important and the significant thing that I have to say; the rest has been prologue - the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  made a statement in this House purporting to give different figures and stating as his authority for those figures a certain  Mr Tilling,  an officer of his Department who, apparently, was writing a master's thesis. 
The Minister laid on the table of the House a document from  Mr Tilling's  work. He made certain statements about what  Mr Tilling  had said and  Mr Tilling's  views. The document itself was interesting because it was difficult to be certain of its origin. It was said to be a report of a seminar lecture given by John Tilling at the Monash University on 24 July 1972  -  over a year ago. That is significant. But I do not know who wrote the report. It was apparently a summary by someone who had heard the statement because I see at the foot of page 1 the commentary in brackets: I can't claim to understand the Phelps-Brown technique', to which  Mr Tilling  had been referring. So I do not know who made this summary, but it was what the Minister was relying on. But the Minister did not tell the House that a report had been made to his Department by  Mr Tilling  in conjunction with a  Mr Lampe.  The Minister did not say that. 
A certain  Mr James,  from the Australian National University, who might for all I know be supervising  Mr Tilling's  work on his master's thesis, has recently published a critique of the situation. I quote exactly from his report. He states: 
In Federal Parliament,  Mr Cameron,  the Minister for Labour, claimed that their evidence stemmed from work on the wage share by  Mr Tilling.  This would appear to be a very loose interpretation of  Mr Tilling's  carefully calculated figures. 
That is a moderate statement. But  Mr James  later goes on to say that this report has been presented to the Department of Labour. Again I quote exactly and ask the House to take note of this quote. He states: 
I feel that Tilling and Lampe probably would object to the interpretation that the unions have given to their figures. In the conclusion of their Departmental Report they state: 
I now quote the departmental report which the Minister had available to him. I cannot for certain say that he knew about it, but he certainly had it available in his Department. This is the relevant passage and it is what Tilling and Lampe actually said. It reads: 
The evidence appears generally to support the hypothesis of long run stability in distributive share. The gross functional distribution of the national product has not changed significantly in favour of either  labour or capital since 1953-54. This conclusion is not without importance from an industrial relations viewpoint. Recently many trade union leaders have expressed the view that labour's share has fallen over the past quarter of a century. This attitude may have had a not insignificant effect as the level of industrial disputation in recent years. It is hoped that the evidence submitted in this study will enable a better appreciation of the facts on this question. 
In fact the Minister had reported to his Department in exactly the opposite terms to what he told the House. I cannot say that the Minister lied to the House, partly because that would be unparliamentary and partly because the Minister may conceivably - although it would be culpable - have been ignorant of what his Department was telling him. The Minister came into this House and gave an account of the advice from his Department which was factually the opposite of the truth. Let us be clear about this. This is something that perhaps could prejudice  Mr Tilling  personally, who is working for his Master's thesis, because he has been misinterpreted in this House by the Minister. I suppose that although that is an important human question, it is not the question before us. The question before us is to what extent the Minister has been culpable in giving to this House a false account of the advice he has received from his Department. We cannot go into the Department's files, of course. We in this Parliament cannot know, in general, what a department advises its Minister, but when a Minister comes into this House and quotes as justification for his attitude the advice that the Department has given him, this House has a right and a duty to see that that Minister is truthful. 
In this case, as I have said, a departmental report was quoted, and the relevant section of that report is now in print in a pamphlet issued by the Australian National University. That departmental report exists and this quoted passage shows that its import is quite different from what the Minister quoted. The Minister cleverly, I think, evaded some of the points at issue and gave the impression - though he did not actually state it - that he was giving an up-to-date version of what  Mr Tilling  had said. As a matter of fact, what he was giving was a version compiled by some unauthorised person who did not really understand what  Mr Tilling  was saying, and  Mr Tilling's  remarks were made, not currently, but 15 months ago. This is the man whom the Minister said has been working in the Department. 
Under the provisions of standing order 399, I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders and Sessional Orders be suspended as would prevent the immediate recommittal of the Bill. 

 Mr Speaker, I have very good reasons for moving this motion. I think that they can be summarised by the remarks made by my friend the honourable member for Moreton. The honourable member for Moreton- 
 Mr Speaker,  I draw your attention to standing order 236, which reads: 
On report from the committee or on the motion for the adoption of the report the bill may, on motion by any Member, be recommitted . . . 
I am entirely and completely in accordance with Standing Orders. 
The matter that I wish to raise has very little political significance, but I hope that what I say might commend itself to the Government. It is, I am afraid, only a minor matter. One of the things that always strikes me about the work of the Department of Science is that it is not always focused or available to the public. Let me deal first with the second point. It seems to me that a great deal of confusion exists in our primary industries as to the correct nomenclature for plants, particularly pest plants, for insects, particularly pest insects, and even for a variety of trees. In different parts of Australia the same tree can be called by a different name and the same pest can be called by a different name, so there is not much chance of an Australian policy taking account of this circumstance. 
Would it not be possible for the Department to standardise nomenclature and to put out information in a readily available form? For this purpose I suggest that we use coloured slides and tapes to go with the slides. For example, for the Australian locust, we could have slides showing its development and the way in which it causes damage. We could have slides showing any other pests or the useful grasses which, I assure honourable members, have different names in different parts of Australia. We could have a series of slides which could be produced by the Department and which could carry the necessary information. 
As I said, this matter has no political implications. It is something to which I think the Department might turn its mind and I will be quite happy to put before the Minister for Science  (Mr Morrison)  a detailed proposal in this regard. I think this would be of special interest to my friends in the Australian Country Party because they know the difficulty in dealing with some of these pests and the opportunities which are lost through not appreciating the properties of useful plants. Very often it turns upon the fact that they do not know what to call the damn things. They are called one thing in Western Australia and another thing on the Riverina. This is a very simple and practical proposal which I hope will be implemented by the Department. As I said, I will be happy to put before the Minister a detailed plan of how this should be done. This proposal could even apply to things which are not of productive significance, such as the recognition of Australian birds and wildflowers. It is very difficult to get any kind of coherent pattern in regard to the recognition of these things. 
Secondly - and I am dealing with something entirely different - I believe there are things which could be done in Australia that are not being done. I refer particularly to a study which I think should be made of the behaviour in Australia of ferral domestic animals, that is, domestic animals that have gone wild. I say this not because I believe it has any immediate practical importance but because I believe that it would have great theoretical importance. We may be able to look at the position of the wild horses, the wild cattle or the wild pigs in Australia. These are animals which have had no experience handed down to them for their wild lives, yet they have established communities with rules of behaviour which are quite complicated and quite set. If we looked at these animals in the Australian environment we might be able to clear up some of the fundamental problems of behaviour and ecology, and some of the fundamental problems of how much is inherited and how much is not. These are absolutely basic problems in science. We have in Australia the opportunity, through a proper study, of solving some of these problems which have bedevilled science as a whole throughout the world. 
I am not suggesting that we spend any great amount of money. I would have thought that even a few tens of thousands of dollars properly applied would be able to produce in Australia something which is of world importance. I discussed this with  Sir Macfarlane  Burnet and he agrees that this is of prime importance and should be done in Australia. I discussed with him this particular proposition, and I put it to the Government that it is one of the things which we might be doing. I am not asking for anything of any great significance financially. I am simply saying that the attention of the Department might be focused here, and we could get with a comparatively small expenditure in Australia something which could be theoretically of world significance. 
I put to the Government 2 unrelated propositions. The first is the popularisation of knowledge by the use of such things as colour slides and tapes to make available to Australian farmers, to Australian children, to Australian researchers - to the people who are interested - the correct nomenclature not only of Australian plants an animals but also those that have been introduced into Australia. Secondly, I ask whether it would be possible to have an ecology study done here relating to the behaviour in Australia of domestic animals which have gone wild and established their communities with their own pattern of behaviour. This second matter is of no practical productive consequence but I think it could be of considerable theoretical consequence and might perhaps bring a great deal of credit to Australia if this were undertaken. I do not want to take up the time of the House further. In relation to both these matters I would be very glad to put a detailed program before the Government and to participate, myself, in the guidance and development of that program. I thank the Committee. 
I agree that the statement that the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  has put before us is in most respects moderate and restrained. To that extent I think that it is a withdrawal from the somewhat extravagant statements which he put out earlier. I can only hope that the damage which, perhaps unconsciously, he has done by those previous extravagant statements will to some extent be undone by this one. There are one or two points I should remark upon besides those made by the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  who preceded me. I refer particularly to the aside of the Minister, which was not contained in his roneoed speech, when he referred to the 'evil practices' of the past Government. This was not only unfair but also out of line with what the Minister had said. Nothing has been done in the past that is not in conformity with the practices inherited from a previous Labor government and from previous governments before that. 
As the Minister has pointed out, it is true that there have been changes in services. I think that he was fair in that regard. It is perhaps extraordinary how little complaint has been made in the past - certainly very little justified complaint. In the whole of my  4i  years as Minister for Social Services I cannot remember any complaint being voiced in this House on this matter. It is important to remember that by far the greater part of the giving of information by the Department is either for the benefit of the pensioner or with the pensioner's explicit or implied consent. I deal now with that second point of which honourable members will all be aware. Probably hundreds of times in a year every one of us gets a request to look at the circumstances of some pensioner in our electorate. There is an implied consent from that pensioner that his affairs should be known to the honourable member who is trying to help him. Although the files of pensioners are not usually made available there have been occasions when a complaint has been made that a Minister - I, and I think other Ministers, have done this - has discussed the file with the member of Parliament who has brought this matter before his attention and who is acting on 'behalf of the pensioner. I know that I have treated honourable members on both sides of the House in exactly the same way in this regard. I do not recall an instance where, after discussion with the honourable member concerned and the adjustment of what had to be adjusted, there has ever been a matter which has had to be raised subsequently in the House while I was Minister. 
The other point is that most of the disclosures are for the benefit of the pensioner. This is necessary when he is a claimant for some kind of concession available to pensioners from a State authority, a local government authority, a charitable authority or, indeed, from one of the Commonwealth departments. In these cases a file is not made available in total or anything like that. The impression given by the Minister's previous statements was quite false in this regard. Only information which is necessary for the settlement of the pensioner's claims is given. They may be just claims and it is important for the pensioner that they should be settled with the least possible delay. I know that some of these practices grew up in the days before there was what is known as a pensioner medical service card used as a method of identification. In those days a pensioner's form was 'available only to those pensioners who had their pensions paid through post offices and not through banks. They, of course, are by no means the whole body of pensioners. But in some cases there was not a ready means of identification. Even today many pensioners are not entitled to PMS cards. 
For all these reasons I think it was unfortunate that the Minister should refer, as he did, to debt collecting agencies using the Department's files because the bodies to which he referred, such as the housing commissions, were bodies whose main reason, not sole reason, for getting information was to do something for the benefit of the pensioner. It was necessary for them to verify not details about the pensioner in almost all cases, but the fact that he was a pensioner. I shall not go into the details of this. I promised the Minister that I would speak for only a few minutes and I will keep ito that promise. But I regretted what the Minister said about Professor Pollard. If my memory is correct I think that, in principle, the disclosure to Professor Pollard was authorised while I was Minister for Social Services. The actual disclosure was done while the present Minister was in office, so I suppose that it is reasonable for both of us to bear the responsibility. 
That may well be, but I would say that in this case nothing wrong was done. Old files were involved on which there was nothing that could have been of significance. The extracts were for statistical purposes only. I do not blame the Minister for what he did. Although I cannot recall it, I believe that permission in principle was given during the time I was Minister and I have nothing to retract from that at all. I do not blame the Minister for what was done. It may be necessary for academic reasons - 'for such things as, for example, Professor Henderson's inquiry on poverty, which was instituted by the previous Government when I was Minister, or the inquiry on repatriation by  Mr Justice  Toose, or something like that - for some academic or judicial authority to get statistical information, not personal information, from files. But in general the files are not let out of the possession of the Department. In this case, as I have said, although I do not blame the Minister for what was done I think it was perhaps a little irregular for Professor 'Pollard to have access to the files, although no harm was done. It is purely whipping up hysteria - that is the Minister's phrase - to consider that any harm was done. 
I come now to the 2 main points I want to emphasise. 'Firstly, it is possible that there can be human error in such cases. No department is invulnerable to misbehaviour by its officers. The Minister cited a case - I think it was before my time as Minister - of a police officer who got information from the Department and used it for personal purposes to trace the address of his erring wife. That was a misuse of departmental information. It happened not through an officer of the Department of Social Services but through an officer of a police department. It was misconduct. It was misconduct, but there is no system in which misconduct of that character is impossible. This has become much more important because of the use of computers and the greater availability of accessibility of information. It is true that a computer can go wrong, but a computer can also be subjected to misuse by misconduct or by human error. Because of the greater volume of information now being collated it is important that we should have some control over the new facilities. Therefore I think the Minister is right in doing the same thing as the New South Wales Government has recently announced that it will do, that is, to have an inquiry into the better protection of privacy. The Minister's guidelines as set out on page 16 of the reneoed statement may prove impractical. The information will be restricted to cases. 
where there is explicit authorisation or verifiable authorisation by the client concerned, or 
in extreme cases where there exist grave reasons of public interest. 
How are we to deal with inquiries by members about pensioners in their constituencies? Many of these inquiries are made by telephone and it is important for the pensioner concerned that they be resolved with the least possible delay. Second, how are we to deal with the position of voluntary organisations which need information about whether an applicant for relief from them is in point of fact a pensioner? How are we to deal with those inquiries that must be made by State welfare organisations if they are to give relief? Those organisations want to know the facts quickly. An inquiry may come in on Wednesday night and it is desired to extend relief to the person concerned on Wednesday night or Thursday morning. There is not sufficient time to go through all the departmental procedure. 
Though the Minister's guidelines are well meant, and I can understand the motive behind them, I am afraid that in practice they will act to the prejudice of a great number of pensioners and will make conditions worse for the pensioners. They will impede the operations of State welfare departments. They may well make very difficult the position of those excellent organisations like the Red Cross or St Vincent de Paul or other relief organisations that exist and require quick knowledge - not details - of whether or not a person is a pensioner before they are able to give assistance or assess the relief that should be given. 
I move: 
In paragraph (a), omit all words after "by", substitute the words "inserting after the words 'in each State' (twice occurring) the words 'and Territory' ". 
My amendment has been circulated or is in the course of being circulated. It may seem to be only a drafting amendment but it has a little bit of constitutional force behind it and I think the Government might seriously consider it. My amendment seeks to alter section 128 of the Constitution. Clause 2 of the Government's Bill reads: 
By omitting the words "in each State" (twice occurring); 
What I suggest is that instead of deleting the words "in each State" (twice occurring) there be substituted the words "inserting after the words 'in each State' (twice occurring)" the words 'and Territory'. Section 128 of the Constitution would then read - 
The proposed law . . . shall be submitted in each State and Territory to the electors qualified to vote for the election of members of the House of Representatives. 
Then at the foot of the next paragraph, the section would read:  . . either with or without any amendments subsequently agreed to by both Houses, to the electors in each State and Territory qualified to vote 
The proposed amendment does not alter the impact of what the Government says it wants to do; it simply puts it in better drafting form, and I think it improves the Bill. I suggest to the Government that it might accept this amendment which, I repeat, would put in better drafting form what the Government says it wants to do. 
The Government's Bill seeks to omit the words, 'in each State', in the Constitution. If we accept that amendment the section would read: 
The proposed law .... shall be submitted to the electors qualified to vote .... 
It is part of the federal compact that the States be preserved. If one looks at the foot of section 128 of the Constitution one sees a requirement that an amendment of the Constitution must 'be approved by the majority of the electors in each State. That being so, the Constitution should provide also that a referendum is put to the electors in each State. I do not dispute - indeed I support it - the contention that we should also allow the electors in the Territories to vote and that their vote should be counted in determining the overall majority. I and the Government are at one on this. We are both trying to do the same thing. But I would suggest to the Government that it would be better drafting to keep the words as they appear in the section. One is always a little worried about omitting from the Constitution words which protect the States. 
To retain the words 'in each State' and simply add the words 'and Territory' would mean that the Bill would be submitted to the electors in each State and Territory separately. This is necessary, of course, if one is to satisfy the requirements of a majority in the majority of the States. I am not suggesting that we should do anything to impair the position of the States - very much the contrary. I think that when we are drafting an amendment to the Constitution, we should endeavour to preserve the proper functions and rights of the States. But at the same time I agree with the Government that the votes of those in the Territories should be counted in the general total which is required of all electors to carry a referendum. I agree with the Government that the electors in the Territories should have that right, but I do not think that since the Constitution is a federal compact we should, in any way, impair the rights of the electors in the States. 
I know that with this Government - and I must say, with respect, it was with past governments also - it is a matter of pride not to accept an amendment even though it may result in an improvement to the Bill. Maybe that same kind of foolish wide actuates even the Prime Minister, although we know that the Prime Minister, of all the people, is a modest man and is quite devoid of any feelings of pride. I suggest to the Prime Minister that in this matter of drafting, he should swallow not his pride but the pride of his Party, and accept my amendment, which is reasonable and one that improves the drafting and makes clear the residual rights of the States in the federal compact. I ask the Government not to take out, even from this section, the phrase 'in each State' but to prefer the machinery whereby the referendum is submitted to the electors in each State and the Territories. 
Let me again make clear my amendment which has now been circulated. I suggest that we should not take out the words 'in each State' twice occurring; but instead that we should leave in those words and add after them the words 'and Territory'. This would make clearer to the people in the Territories what we are doing for them. Moreover, it would preserve, as it should preserve, the position of the States explicitly in this section of the Commonwealth Constitution which is part of the federal compact and is drafted around the residual rights of the States in that compact. 
I ask the Government to reconsider this matter. My amendment would make no substantial difference to what the Government says it wants to do, but I think it represents an improvement in drafting. It would better preserve the federal nature of the Constitution, and it is one which I hope the Government will be inclined to accept. If the Government has some kind of hidden meaning in what it is doing, if it wants really to make a first move towards the assassination of the States by leaving out these words, if there is bad faith in the Bill, the Government will not accept my amendment. But I would prefer to believe that in this instance, and only in this instance, the Government means what it says and will, therefore, be inclined to accept my amendment which clarifies the position and does not derogate from what the Government says it wants to do. If on the other hand this whole proposal is meant as a first step to the eventual assassination of the States, of course, the Government will reject my amendment. I am not saying that the Government wants to do this at present. Let us consider this amendment on its merits. I believe that there are very great merits in making an amendment along the lines I have suggested. 
It is perfectly true that the Opposition as a whole has not had an opportunity to consider my amendment because it was submitted by me only a few moments ago. Of course the Opposition in the Senate may have an opportunity to consider it at greater length as more time will be available to it. I can understand the dilemma of the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  who just has not had time to think about it and realise what it is all about. I can understand and appreciate his position. I do not want to press it any further than that. 
However I address myself to the remarks which the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  was good enough to let fall from his lips in this chamber.  His  observations do not seem to me to be terribly logical. I would be quite happy to accept as an amendment to my amendment the inclusion of the words 'and any Territory'. I do not think it is necessary but if he would like it I would be very happy to meet the honourable gentleman in that way. It does not seem to me to add to or detract from the thought that was in my mind when I moved my amendment. Of course one has to look to the future. I do not think it likely that the Australian Capital Territory will be erected into a State. If it were, quite extensive alterations would be necessary to the Constitution. If the Australian Capital Territory became a State I suppose it is possible that there would be no Territories but if this were so the Constitution, not only in this respect but in other clauses, would require significant alterations. So I do not think that this is a contingency which we need to consider. But even if we were to consider it, let us look at the position. Suppose the Prime Minister is right in forecasting that at some date he will make further States, perhaps of the Northern Territory and perhaps even of the Australian Capital Territory so that they would cease to be Territories and become States. If this were so and there were no Territories my amendment would still stand. The wording would be 'should be submitted in each State and Territory' and if there were no Territories there would be no Territory to which to submit a question. But if the Prime Minister wants to put in 'and any Territory' that is fine. If there is no Territory the clause still stands even though its operation becomes nugatory. It may be at some later date .that there shall be no Territories as there are at present. 
We cannot forsee history. There still might be some part of Australia which could become an Australian Territory. For example, at present the Northern Territory is a Territory but when the Constitution was drafted the Northern Territory was part of the State of South Australia. So, in point of fact, a new Territory was created in the past. It may be that this will not occur again. I cannot foresee it occurring again, but even if the possibility remains at least the drafting that I have suggested would be better than that proposed by the Government. I ask the Government not to press this matter of foolish pride. If we can improve the wording, let us improve it. If the Prime Minister wants to say 'and any Territory' let him say that. That would be no skin off my nose. I should be perfectly happy if he were to take that course and to accept the amendment which would read 'and any Territory'. It is not often it occurs but the honourable gentleman and myself would be ad idem on the matter. Our minds could work together. Surely the Prime Minister is not going to stand fast on a drafting matter when obviously what he is putting forward is less intelligible to the public. It means less. It is perhaps capable of being twisted. 
As I listened to the honourable gentleman I was wondering what was going through his mind. I know that he talks about creating more States but the policy of his Party, in the background, is to abolish the States. That policy is first to abolish the Senate which is the States Mouse. That is written into their platform and constitution. The Australian Labor Party wants to abolish the Senate - the House of the States. It wants to centralise all power in Canberra. That is not only contained in the Party's constitution; it is shown in practice. It is what the Government has been doing in the past few months. If it wants to abolish the States perhaps it will stick to its drafting. If that is so it will take the States out of the Constitution everywhere it can. It will omit the words 'in each State'. This may be just a little straw in the wind - it may not mean very much - but if the Government has nothing to lose by making itself plain and by retaining the words 'in each State' and putting after them, if it likes, 'and any Territory' that would surely satisfy the quite chimerical fears expressed by the Prime Minister in this House a few moments ago. Surely there should be some reason in this. Surely the Government is not so proud that it will not look at an amendment on its merits. My Party- 
Will you be quiet? I know that you are Leader of the House but will you let somebody else talk for a moment? 

 - Mr Chairman- 

Motion (by  Mr Daly)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
Thank you,  Mr Speaker.  I was caught once tonight. It is good of you,  Mr Speaker.  You were not in the House- 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
I move: 
That a Select Committee of this House be appointed to inquire into: 
the reasons why the raft with the survivors of the 'Blythe Star' was not located more promptly, and 
possible measures to facilitate the prompt location of boats or rafts in difficulties at sea. 
That the Committee consist of the mover and seconder, together with 3 members to be nominated by the Prime Minister and to be notified in writing to the  Speaker. 
That the Committee have power to send for persons, papers and records, to move from place to place and to sit during any recess or adjournment of the Parliament. 
That the Committee report to this House not later than 30 November 1973. 
I think it was on 25 October last that the survivors from the 'Blythe Star' were located and rescued even though the ship had sunk some 12 days previously. As soon as the news of that came, I gave notice in the House that I would move a motion in the above terms. I think it is almost a month since I moved that motion. Obviously 2 questions which exercise the minds of the public should exercise the minds of honourable members of this House in regard to this incident. The first is: Why did the 'Blythe Star' sink? The second is: Why were the survivors not found and what can be done to help in such other cases in the future? 
The first of those questions is not included in the terms of my motion. I am not offering any opinion as to why the 'Blythe Star' sank. That is a matter on which I have no views except that it is inexplicable on our present knowledge. It was a tragic event and it is important that that question should be resolved. But my mind is not directed to that aspect in the slightest. I am asking why the raft was not found and what can be done to facilitate the search for such rafts in the future. Although we all hope that such sinkings will not occur in the future we know that in the nature of things they may. 
I briefly recall to the minds of honourable members - although they might not require such recalling - that the men on board the Blythe Star' launched from the vessel one of the survival rafts which I think was 12 foot in diameter with a fluorescent orange canopy. It was safely launched and it drifted from the position where the vessel should have been at the time it sank, past a lighthouse on Moat.suyker Island, across the mouth of the Derwent River, .past fishing boats, within a stone's throw of a lighthouse on the south of the Tamanian peninsula and, finally, after passing within the sight of a tourist hotel, was beached in an inhospitable cove where there was further loss and tragedy because of the difficulty of making contact with civilisation even after the raft had come ashore. This is an incredible story because there was mounted a large and expensive search with all the technical facilities at our command. Yet this raft, starting from the most probable point where the vessel would have sunk, passing by lighthouses and coast watchers, through fishing vessels, near other vessels, across the mouth of the Derwent River that runs into Hobart, past another lighthouse within a few hundred yards, and within sighting distance of a tourist hotel, still was not located and was given up for lost. I think the House will agree with me that this is a most extraordinary chain of events. 
The honourable member says 'incredible'. I find it almost impossible to believe what has occurred, yet it did occur. The questions we have to ask ourselves are, first, why there was no better information as to the location of the vessel at the time it sank. There is some unsatisfactory evidence - I do not regard it as conclusive - that a 'May Day' distress signal was sent out from the vessel before it sank. I do not know whether that is true or not. It has been reported and it should be investigated. Why was the raft not seen by the lighthouses? Why were the vessels through which it drifted not alerted? Why did they not give it assistance? Apparently some of them were Japanese fishing vessels. Apparently one of them was the 'Mary Holyman', an Australian vessel that passed between the raft and a lighthouse. Although apparently some kind of a flare was sent up, nothing was seen. Most incredible of all, why was the raft not found when the defence forces mounted this very large operation? It was a large operation with 14 planes involved at one time. It cost, I am told, over $250,000 and the equipment involved must have cost very many tens of millions of dollars. As the honourable member for Hunter has said, it is almost incredible. 
When questions of that kind are asked surely we should be taking some kind of special measures to find the answers. The questions occur in this order: First, why was there not more notice given and more vigilance from the lighthouses, the vessels and the people in the area? I know that it is hard to spot an object at sea. The raft was 12 feet in diameter and had an orange fluorescent canopy over it - not altogether an inconspicuous object, though the sea is a big .place. Then, how many vessels were round about? There has been talk of fishing vessels. They were not the only vessels. Why, why, why were the defence authorities incapable of finding it? That last question is one that should concern the House because the whole of our defence appreciation is based upon our ability to find objects at sea. If one cancels from the defence appreciation the possibility of finding objects at sea, then the defence plans for Australia might have to be quite significantly revised. This is a question of almost transcending importance. We have been told that a submarine cannot stick up a periscope within 300 miles of Australia without somebody being able to spot it, that radar will find everything. Well, radar did not find this, and we have been told that it could not find it because it was not composed of metal. If this House were to pass a law that every one of our enemies should always use metal in everything it puts up from a submarine I am afraid we could not enforce that law. 
If there is that kind of unreality at the base of our defence appreciation, this complete unreality which has been shown up by our enemies or potential enemies, it should be taken notice of by our authorities. The exercise - if one can call it an exercise - is an exercise in reality. When it comes to reality the exercise falls down. This is of tremendous importance and significance. I am not trying to make a case against the Government. I am not even trying to defend what the Opposition may have done when it was in Government. What I am doing is saying that this House has to take some notice of defence realities, irrespective of Party. This aspect does seem to me of tremendous importance. 
Leaving that, a side issue perhaps as far as the motion is concerned but perhaps the most important aspect of the whole thing, let me come to practical things. What can we do to prevent a repetition of this incredible series of events? It seems to me that there are 3 things we can consider. The first is better reporting and better vigilance. This concerns the network of radio stations, the possibility of using local fishing boats, even local pleasure boats, as some kind of coast guard. All those kind of things can be considered. Was there sufficient vigilance? Was there slackness and a breakdown on the part of watchers on the ships and of watchers at the lighthouses? We should like to know the answers to those questions. 
The second matter is obviously a simple one: A survival raft should have a radar reflector on it. From the accounts we have been told that the crew on this raft used food containers, their tins, and tried to make radar reflectors from them. Obviously if they did that - and I believe they did - those efforts were ineffectual. I have seen statements from responsible officers to the effect that a little bit of tin foil that could have been put over the orange canopy on the raft would have made the raft a radar reflector. That would be a very simple thing. I do not suppose we would be thinking in terms of more than a couple of dollars a raft in regard to that aspect. If there is to be a radar search why not make rafts amenable to radar location? That could be done practically costlessly. It may be that we should be having on rafts heat sensors and infra-red sensors which are available, and perhaps this is some kind of reflection on the technical ability of the defence forces that were doing the search. This was not the kind of thing for which they were searching. The enemy is not incapable of looking for ways and means of outwitting your defence. 
Finally, let me say something about a very simple little device called a survival beacon which, I believe, it is obligatory to fit to most aircraft and which, when it is activated, will send out a sound known as a bleep which can be located quite accurately by the radar in a commercial plane from a distance of perhaps more than 100 miles. That bleeper will operate even in bad weather; cloud will not affect it. If a raft were equipped with a survival beacon or bleeper - call it what you like - there would be no difficulty whatsoever in finding a raft. I happen to know something about this device because when I was in Central Australia I was considering carrying a survival beacon myself in case I became lost in the desert. It is quite a simple device and there is no reason at all why every life raft should not, as a matter of course, be equipped with a proper survival beacon. There is no difficulty about it; it is not terribly expensive. 
I was thinking of, perhaps, a couple of thousand of them. The honourable member for Hunter suggests $100 a pop and he might not be far wrong. They would be cheaper if they were bought in bulk and, for the $250,000 which was spent on the fruitless search, the Government could have made certain that no such search in the future would be fruitless. I gave notice of this motion immediately I heard of the incredible series of events. I gave notice of it before the Government appointed its own committee of inquiry. I believe it is a good committee of inquiry headed by  Mr Taylor.  I have no complaint to make about what the Government has done in that regard. At the time I think there was a good case for the Parliament to hold an inquiry while the evidence was still hot, while all the information could be obtained. 
The Press has made that inquiry. It has published the results of the inquiry, and I congratulate it on the work it has done. But its work will be backed up, I am sure, by the inquiry which the Government has instituted, and I do not cavil either at the nature of the inquiry or the personnel appointed to conduct it. I thought that the time when this notice of motion expired was 30 November. Obviously, the motion is out of court now, and I do not intend to press it. What I want to do is to draw the attention of the House to some of the salient points I have raised. I hope that my friend, the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen),  who is to second this motion, will agree that the motion should not be pressed. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! Is the motion seconded? 
In view of what the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  has said, I will ask for leave to withdraw the motion. There are 2 important points. Firstly, everything should be done to prevent a repetition of this kind of incident, and secondly, we should look at the possible defence deficiencies to which the Minister has referred. Here is equipment that the defence people should have but did not have. I ask for leave to withdraw my motion. 
Motion - by leave - withdrawn. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker- 

I am afraid that the honourable member for Moreton has taken the words out of my mouth. This will not be quite so friendly. I move: 
That this House requires an explanation and apology from the Minister for Labour for his conduct in misleading it on 16 October as recorded in Hansard at pages 2134-2135, in that he falsely reported the advice tendered by an officer of his Department. 
This is a serious matter because the veracity of a Minister is the cornerstone of the credibility of the Government. If the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  is misleading the House then the Government's credibility is, to that extent, reduced. I want to be definite about this. The most despicable thing that a Minister can do is to give a misleading account of the advice that the officers of his Department tender to him. I cannot say at the moment that the Minister has been guilty of that offence because he may be able to plead that he was ignorant of what went on in his Department. If his explanation is his own ignorance, then this House must accept it. If the Minister did not know what his departmental officers were saying in the advice that they were tendering to him and if he misquoted them, not through malice but through inadvertence, he owes the House an explanation and an apology. The House should, and I am sure will, accept that explanation and apology. If, on the other hand, he did know what was happening in his Department, the matter becomes much more serious. It becomes, as it were, a political hanging offence because a Minister who lies in the House as to what his Department has told him is not fitted to retain his portfolio or, indeed, his seat in the House. 
I am quite happy if the Minister is able to convince the House that he did not know what the facts were. I would be quite happy about that. He can offer his explanation and apology, and that will be the end of the matter. If he does not and if he says 'I knew about it', he has misled the House and, in point of fact, not putting too fine a point on it, he has lied to the House. I am not accusing the Minister of that. He will perhaps have an opportunity to offer some explanation of his conduct. But let me place the facts before the House. 
I think that I mentioned them in the House on 15 November. I will not reiterate entirely what I said then, but I will have to recall the sequence of events because they relate to something which is politically very important, namely, the foundation for the Government's case in the forthcoming referendum on 8 December. The House will recall that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  said in the House and also outside it that it would be unfair to think of his control measures as relating to wages because over the last 15 or 20 years, I think he said, the share of wages in the gross national product had consistently declined. This was crucial to his case. But it was a false statement. I pointed out to the House the falsity of that statement. I quoted the authentic figures prepared by the Legislative Research Service of the Parliamentary Library from the figures which the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  presented in his Budget statement and which were available in official publications. 
I quoted those figures. I was most emphatic in this matter. Because of the emphasis that I placed on it, I found myself suspended for 24 hours from the service of this House. It was necessary that the public should know the figures. Those figures had been quoted in this House and were in Hansard. But they had not been widely published. So, within the limits of my resources, I arranged for an advertisement to be placed in the Sydney Press setting out simply the figures as compiled by the Parliamentary Library, which gave the lie to the Prime Minister's assertions. That happened. 
On 16 October, that is, the next meeting of the House immediately after my suspension, a question was asked - I imagine that it was a pre-arranged question, but I could not prove that of course - by the honourable member for Bonython  (Mr Nicholls)  of the Minister for Labour. It is the reply by the Minister to that question of which I complain as the Minister gave the House a false impression of the real view of one of the officers of his Department. It was a  Mr Tilling  who was named by the Minister. It is rather important that this should be stated because  Mr Tilling,  among other things, is submitting a thesis for a master's degree. One would not want his academic prospects to be distorted or prejudiced by any misdescription of them by the Minister for Labour. 
The facts stand out like a sore thumb, if I may use an expurgated expression. They stand out as reported at pages 2134 and 2135 of Hansard of 16 October 1973. I invite the House to look at those pages which record the Minister's answer. The Minister commenced: 
I did see the advertisement this morning. I thought that it was a despicable twisting of statistics to try to cast aspersions on a man whose integrity in this place is without parallel. 
I do not think that the Minister was right in using these ironic and sarcastic expressions about the Prime Minister. But let that pass. The Minister, who is at the table, can barely stop laughing even now as he thinks of how he twisted the Prime Minister's tail with that expression: 
. a man whose integrity in this place is without parallel. 
Really! I let that pass. I do not wish to tread on these little infidelities inside the Labor Party. Let me not be distracted from the more important aspect of my case. The Minister goes on to show why he alleges my figures are twisted. He states: 
My Department informs me that a  Mr John  Tilling of the Department has been working on these statistics for some time now for a master's thesis. This work has now reached the point where we are able to make some observations. I would like the House to bear with me while I make them.  Mr Tilling  worked through a wide range of possible methods. . . 
The Minister goes on to show that  Mr Tilling  found on a 95 per cent probability, according to the Minister, that my figures were a distortion and my statement that the Prime Minister was wrong when he, the Prime Minister stated that the wage share was falling was, and I quote the Minister again: 'a despicable twisting of statistics'. The Minister has represented  Mr Tilling  as having worked on these statistics, being still working on them, and having come to a conclusion that the Prime Minister was right. Thas is what he said in the House. I invite honourable members to look at pages 2134 and 2135 of Hansard where the Minister stands on record as saying that. 
He went further. Asked by the Opposition, he tabled the paper from which he was reading containing  Mr Tilling's  continuing work in the 
Department up to date. It has now reached the point where we can say something about it. He tabled the paper. What he tabled was a very curious document because it was not  Mr Tilling's  document at all. It was an account by some layman of a lecture given by  Mr Tilling  in June 1972 in the Australian National University.  Mr Tilling  has been working on the figures since then, has he not? As he has been working on them, we are entitled to get his up-to-date views. Well, his up-to-date views are contained in a departmental thesis written by  Mr Tilling  and a  Mr Lampe  which was circulated for criticism in the Australian National University on 13 April 1973. That I have verified from direct contact with the authorities in the University who were asked to circulate it. The date is important. It is the up to date version. 

 Mr Tilling has been working continuously, as the Minister for Labour said.  Mr Tilling's  work has now reached the point where something can be said about his conclusions. What were his conclusions? They are quoted by  Mr Denis  James, a Master of Economics on the staff of the Australian National University, who recently published a paper and quoted from the Tilling and Lampe report. I shall read the passage of the report which he quoted, and I am sure he quoted it correctly. He said: 
In Federal Parliament,  Mr Cameron,  the Minister for Labour, claimed that their evidence stemmed from work on the wage share by  Mr Tilling.  This would appear to be a very loose interpretation of  Mr Tilling's  carefully calculated figures. 
He went on to quote the departmental report, and I now quote from the Minister's own departmental report circulated in the Australian National University on 13 April last. It stated: 
The evidence appears generally to support the hypothesis of long run stability in distributive share. The gross functional distribution of the national product has not changed significantly in favour of either labour or capital since 19S3-S4. This conclusion is not without importance from an industrial relations viewpoint. Recently many trade union leaders have expressed the view that labour's share has fallen over the past quarter' of a century. This attitude may have had a not insignificant effect on the level of industrial disputation in recent years. It is hoped that the evidence submitted in this study will enable a better appreciation of the facts on this question. 
The report goes on to give the lie to the figures which  Mr Hawke  has been quoting up and down the country and which the Minister for Secondary Industry  (Mr Enderby)  tabled on behalf of the Australian Council of Trade 
Unions in this Parliament and which the Prime Minister has apparently adopted. 
Those figures are disowned by the technical officers of the Minister's own Department. That is important, but it is much more important that the Minister gives to this House a quite fallacious version of what his Department has said. As I have said, the Minister may be ignorant of what is happening in his own Department. He may have erred through mistake and ignorance. If so, let him apologise and explain. Let him explain 'his statement that they have been working on these figures and that they have now reached the point where you can make some observations upon them. They are 'his words. Let him explain them now. I will say no more. It is up to the Minister now to say that he did not know what was happening in his Department, that what he said was wrong and that the opinion of his Department is different from what he represented it to be because he did not know what was happening in his Department. Let him explain that away or else let him be convicted by this House as a downright and damnable liar. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Is the motion seconded? 
Nobody can say that the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  is not a fast talker when he is desperate; but it was not quite good enough tonight. 
I am told that the Government intends to force this Bill through this chamber without adequate discussion, as it has done with so many others. Therefore I must be very brief. 
This is an ill-advised and inequitable Bill. I will not have time to say why it is so illadvised in all respects; but I would have thought that in the present situation of inflation, when more production is needed, a Bill which is aimed at the roots of production is ill-advised. I would have thought also that in the present situation of world instability in economies and prices a drastic Bill of this character is illadvised. However, I will not have time to develop this. I know that some kind of fiscal action is necessary, but I do not think that this is. the correct kind of action at all. There are other means of controlling the excess supply of money. There are other means of meeting the additions to that excess supply caused by the Government's Budget policy in other directions. Those are major matters. 
I will deal with only one specific matter; that is, the proposals made in this Bill for the taxing of aged people. They are disgraceful, although they are not as disgraceful as the proposals which the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  originally made. When the Treasurer brought down his Budget and, following that, when he issued a statement from his office it was obvious that he was proposing a major assault upon pensioners.  His  initial proposals were quite disgraceful. When I learnt of these proposals, when the Social Services Bill was under discussion I criticised them in this House. I drew the attention of the country and of the House to some of the gross fallacies in the Treasurer's policy. Subsequently, as a result of that, the Labor Caucus forced the rather reluctant Treasurer to change his proposals and to make them far less inequitable. 
Well, of course, in this case the Treasurer was in a corner because owing to his ill faith in regard to the means test he was proposing in his Budget to take from aged people by way of taxation far more than he was going to give them by any partial relaxation of the means test. It was a swindle. He was found out and, to some extent, he has corrected his course. The change of the base for the rebate from, I think, $2,322 to $3,224 did correct much, not all, of the inequity. I think the Treasurer's original proposals would have taken something like $3 5m or $40m a year from these aged pensioners. I estimate his present proposals will take only another $8m. So at least three-quarters of the iniquity and the inequity has been resolved. But there is still something wrong in the Treasurer's present proposals as they are before the House in this Bill. 
I am not opposed in principle to the granting of a rebate as a mechanism for adjusting the aged person's allowance, but I am opposed to what the Treasurer is doing. What he has put in this Bill will hurt certain groups of aged pensioners quite appallingly. Let me first look at the single person who has a taxable income, apart from pension, in the range of, say, $800 a year to $2,000 a year. There will be substantial loss to him, going to about $60 a year. That is not the main facet of the Treasurers proposition. The main inequity will fall on the married pensioner. This comes about because traditionally the married pensioner has had his pension rights adjusted in relation to half the income of the married couple. This does not apply to income tax. It is for this reason that major anomalies arise. Many married aged pensioners whose combined taxable income is in the range of $1,000 to $4,000 a year will lose substantially. Those who will lose most will be those whose combined income is in the range of $2,400 a year, which is not a great amount. Of course it depends on how the income is divided between husband and wife. But in most of these cases the income belongs to the husband because the modest income of aged people is generally superannuation. It is in one pair of hands and taxed in those hands. Some of these people will lose up to $250 a year. It is quite appalling that a married couple will be losing $250 a year by reason of this new tax. 
But worse than that, there will be complications in regard to provisional tax. These complications are of such a nature that even the 
Taxation Office at the present moment does not quite know how it is going to deal with them. I can say that because I have been in consultation with tax officers in relation to these complications. I am afraid that not only this year but also next year - perhaps next year more than this year - certain pensioners will find themselves in very deep water because of the operations of provisional tax. 
It will be said that, after all, the means test is being taken away for people over 75 years of age and that they will get a means-test-free pension. I am not complaining on behalf of people over 75 years of age. I am complaining on behalf of those pensioners under the age of 75 who do not get anything from this Budget and who will have to pay, particularly if married, this large additional tax. It is difficult in this short time to explain these details to the House; I will not attempt to do so. All I say is that these married people, particularly if the income is in one pair of hands, will get slugged this year. When the operation of provisional tax comes upon them - I am not quite certain because the Taxation Office does not quite know how it will deal with this - they will find themselves in very hot water in many respects. 
As I have said, I am not talking just for the people over 75 years of age. They do get the advantage of having a means-test-free pension. They get something. But in this Budget the great bulk of pensioners, those under 75, do not get the means-test-free pension. It is an absolute swindle on the part of the Treasurer in this Budget to load these additional burdens on to those of pensionable age below 75 when he is not taking off the means test. Even at this late stage I ask the Treasurer to reconsider and to see whether he might not show a little humanity and equity for a change. 
I ask the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  to reconsider the matter of the aged persons tax allowance. The $35m that he proposed initially to take away from these people has been reduced by, I think, $27m. Following upon my initial protest, Caucus made him make that reduction. I askhim now whether he will go the last bit of the way. Only $8m is involved. It would not affect the Budget as a whole. Will the Minister do the fair thing by these old people? I make this plea to the Minister to change his line of approach even at this late stage. 
I join with my colleague, the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair),  in supporting the High Commissioner (United Kingdom) Act Repeal Bill but there are one or two remarks I would like to make. Firstly, I agree with what has been said in regard to the technical aspects of the Service and the way in which this Bill can make improvements. I regard this as a good thing. But I would regard it as a bad thing if this Bill were to mark any further diminution of the special relationship between Australia and the United Kingdom. I say this with full consciousness of the need for furthering our Australian identity and for creating in Australia a nation of independent outlook. I think nobody in this House more than I would be able to say that. 
I remember moving, I think in 1952, in this House a motion regarding the takeover of a large section of the Australian broadcasting network by British Press interests. The Labor Party supported that foreign takeover at that time. I moved, and was successful in getting through this House, a motion regarding that action. 
Although I am not opposed to all foreign investment by any means, I have always stood opposed to the excesses of foreign investment in Australia. I would have, I think, in this regard, a longer and more consistent history than probably anybody on either side of this House. 
I return to the special relationship between Australia and Britain. Let me come back to taws in this respect and put things squarely on the line. It is customary for us to say that Australia is safe, that we have no enemies, that no one will attack for 15 years and that physical violence against us is unthinkable. I wish that this were true but I do not necessarily believe it to be true. With New Zealand, we could be isolated in this region of this hemisphere. It will be well for the existence and continued identity of Australia if the special relationship with the United Kingdom were continued and, indeed, intensified. 
The British Commonwealth has now become so diluted as to be devoid of its old meaning. 'Almost meaningless' would perhaps be too hard a term but the British Commonwealth is not what it was. But between the 
United Kingdom, Australia, New Zealand and Canada there may still be - I hope there still is - a special and inner link. Canada does not need for its defence a special relationship with the United Kingdom, because geographically it shelters under the umbrella of the United States. Australia does not. It is regrettable, I think, that many forces in Australia have been urging, through their propaganda, isolationism on the United States and have been saying to the United States: 'You are not to intervene on this side of the Pacific' These are voices from people who might well need that intervention. 
British intervention on our behalf might be surer if we kept this special relationship. 
It may be that British power is not so great east of Suez as once it was but at least there is still - let me say the brutal truth again - a British nuclear capacity which might be essential at some stage for the survival of Australia. I would hope that both the United States and Britain would give us that ultimate protection if ever we needed it. But I would place more reliance on Britain than I would on the United States if that final showdown should ever come. I do not mean that the nuclear weapon would be used. What I suggest is that the capacity to call on the nuclear weapon would mean that it would not be used and it would mean that the identity and security of Australia could still be maintained. 
Thus, while this is a trivial Bill and it can be supported for trivial reasons - and it will be supported for those trivial reasons - I hope that we do not at the same time tear up a much more vital and special relationship. I hope and trust that the passing of this Bill will be consonant with the maintenance to the full degree of that special relationship with the United Kingdom and with the Crown which we hold in common with the United Kingdom. I hope that people will realise that the security of Australia and New Zealand may still in the last ultimate horrible reality depend upon the maintenance of that special relationship. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
I am sure that in this House there is complete unanimity in our goodwill toward the Aboriginal people and that honourable members on both sides of the House would wish that everything that can be done for them should be done. From time to time there may be differences of opinion as to whether or not this or that may be the correct thing. However, these are minor matters to my way of thinking when compared to the bipartisan goodwill that we have. I am sure that the remarks of the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross)  embody that goodwill and that the Opposition would attribute to him a full measure of goodwill in this matter and would not differ from him in respect of those sentiments. 
In a way, this is a transition Bill. It relates to advances to the States for Aboriginal purposes but at the same time the Bill is brought in under circumstances where the Commonwealth's relationship with the States in this field is changing because the Commonwealth is engaged in a process of taking over from the States all their responsibilities in Aboriginal affairs and relegating the Aboriginals, at most, to the status of Asians. I am not certain that this is a good thing but I certainly would not say it is bad. I think it is something which has to be worked out and we will see the results. 
I am a little worried that there will be too much centralisation and that there will be too much of a tendency to regard all Aboriginal people as being the same. This, of course, is not so. This is the prime error made, I think. in approaching this problem. Not only are Aboriginal people different in that some are full bloods and some are not but also they are different in that some have tribal orientation and some have not. Even in different parts of Australia there are differences. Those Aboriginals fully tribalised in the Leopolds might be different from those fully tribalised in Arnhem Land and Cape York. Those in the centre of Australia might be more different still. We make an error if we try to impose on this situation a uniformity which is not in accordance with the facts. 
This is a big program. I refer the House to the sixth statement which the Minister brought down. It shows that the Commonwealth alone, apart from the States, spent in 1971-72 $30m on this objective. In 1972-73, $61m was spent. The sum of $117m is proposed to be spent in 1973-74. This is a tremendous expansion. The amount doubled in one year and is doubling again. In this kind of explosive expansion it is inevitable that there should be some loose edges, some waste and some difficulties in administration. The Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant),  the former Minister for Aboriginal Affairs is sitting at the table and I certainly have some sympathy for the difficulties which he faced. I know of his own personal goodwill in this matter and I do not think that the House or the country would want to be too hard on him for errors which are inevitable in this kind of program. 
It is, as I have said, a big program. If we add on to the amount to be spent by the Commonwealth the amount which the States are spending the total expenditure is probably nearly $1,000 per year per head for every Aboriginal man, woman and child in Australia. In view of the fact that many Aboriginals do not participate in the program at all, the average for those who do participate would be much higher. I am not saying that this figure is too high because anything that can properly and reasonably be spent should be spent. I draw the attention of the House and of the country to the fact that this is almost certainly the most generous program that any country has ever given to its Aboriginal people. 
I know there are people in our community who go around saying how terrible we all are and how we all should be ashamed. Well, I am ashamed of the past as every Australian should be ashamed of our Aboriginal past to some extent. But in the present Australia is doing for its Aboriginal people per head more than any country has ever done. If we are criticised as our enemies would criticise us outside Australia this is at least a reasonable reply. All help should be given that can profitably be given. I do not complain for one moment about the amount of money. I know that in this kind of situation there are difficuties of administration. As I have said, I was the Minister concerned when the program was very much smaller and when the difficulties were very much less and I would certainly sympathise with those difficulties faced by any Minister in this regard. But I believe there is reason to think that in some respects this program may be too lavish. It may be that it is too lavish for the proper advantage of the Aboriginal people, and that must be the only criteria. We have talked of the mentality of the handout. This is perhaps the most dangerous tendency - the greatest danger which faces our Aboriginal population. We want to help the Aboriginals but they must learn to help themselves because otherwise our proper help in the end will only harm them. 
As honourable members have mentioned in the House today there can be some white backlash. We have seen it in the Northern Territory. We saw on television some people who have had first hand experience of the white backlash in Katherine. Nearer home, if one goes to the electorate which the  Speaker  represents which covers the suburb of Redfern in Sydney - not a wealthy area and an area which is predominantly Labor - he will find a white backlash against the Aborigines. I very much regret that this backlash exists. But I would be foolish if I did not admit that a white backlash existed in that area. It can be seen in the resolutions of the local council. 
It is important that this large sum of money should not only be spent for the benefit of Aboriginals but also that as much as possible of it should be spent through Aboriginals to give them employment. I certainly support the special work projects which have been instituted and which are being now carried on by this Government. I certainly support anything which gives employment to Aboriginals in their own localities and does not force them to go out of their localities in order to find employment. It may be that we are not spending enough of this money through Aboriginals. It is difficult, of course, always to do this at the start, but I am sure that as the program develops that will more and more be its character. 
Let me speak specifically about housing. A great deal of this money which we are now voting is to be directed towards Aboriginal housing. Housing is important. I think the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  had a point when he spoke of community housing. This is something which the Aboriginals should determine, I feel, for themselves, on their own preferences. Some Aboriginals do want this and for those it is best. Some do not and for those it is perhaps best to let them follow their bent and integrate either in single families or in small groups of families into the normal Australian community. I do not think that we should seek to impose our feelings and our faults on them in either direction. But in areas outside our cities I think that we should be spending more effort than we have in the design of housing and, in particular, we should be allowing Aboriginals to take control of the design and to build the type of accommodation that they require. 
I spoke earlier today to the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross)  on this aspect. I feel that probably the views of the honourable member for Brisbane on this matter are the same as my own, or at any rate closely parallel. We should be giving to the Aboriginals more right to decide the kind of house that they wish to build. We should let them build their houses as much as possible by their own labour. Honourable members have referred in this debate to training Aboriginal building teams. I wonder perhaps whether we have been giving enough attention to this matter. In country districts, whether in the outback of New South Wales, the Northern Territory or Western Australia, a great need exists for Aboriginal housing and this could provide employment for Aboriginals in their own locality. I should not like to say that they should not leave their locality and come to the cities. Aboriginals, like every free Australian must have their choice. We should not be taking the effective choice away from them by saying: 'You cannot get employment unless you come to the city'. For that reason, I think that the offering of jobs to Aboriginals in the construction of Aboriginal houses in their own locality might be one of the most important things that we could do for them, particularly, if this activity could be developed in conjunction with farming and community enterprises in their own districts. I am afraid that, very often, it is the ruin of Aboriginals to be brought to the city before they are ready. I do not think that we should endeavour to force that decision on them. 
Let me briefly say something about, the health of Aborigines and mention 2 matters which may seem peripheral and trivial but which I think are important. I am disappointed that the work of  Dr Kalokerinos  has not been followed up more intensively. Honourable members will recall that  Dr Kalokerinos  working, I think, in Collarenebri, came up with the idea that much Aboriginal illhealth - particularly a great deal of Aboriginal infant mortality - was due to a deficiency in vitamin C, which is ascorbic acid. He put forward the theory that the Aboriginal, because of genetic factors, did not absorb this vitamin to the degree that other people do and that, as a result there was a chronic deficiency which led to illhealth.  Dr Kalokerinos  corrected this deficiency by administering quite massive doses of this vitamin to Aborigines. 
Following his action, a dramatic improvement in Aboriginal health occurred and a reduction in Aboriginal infant mortality. I know that people may say that this was post hoc and not ergo propter hoc, that is, that this followed on but was not because of it. Perhaps that is the case. But at least all medical authorities are agreed that with vitamin C, unlike other vitamins, an excessive dose cannot do any harm to a human being because it is excreted most readily. Because of this, if he was wrong no harm would be done and if he was right great benefit would follow. Since the cost of administering vitamin C is negligible, why do we not do it? I know that medical authorities describe this as non-proven. They may be right; but, if so, so what? Why do we not do it? 
Incidentally, if one goes to the area in western New South Wales where much of this vitamin deficiency is said to occur amongst the Aborigines, one finds, along the Darling River, the capacity to grow citrus fruits of the very highest quality. As citrus fruits are one of the best natural sources of vitamin C, why are citrus fruits not grown in this area? The Aboriginals could benefit, through their own work, in providing something for their own health. In the meantime an experiment could be carried out with respect to the administering of massive doses of vitamin C to see what results can be achieved. At any rate, it would not cost much. Medical authorities have agreed that no harm can be done, although some people think that no great benefit will follow. 
I should like to raise another matter. I noticed in a newspaper article recently that Australia is exporting to the famine areas of Africa - as indeed we well might - some quantities of a protein-enriched biscuit. This is a matter which, when I was MinisterinCharge of Aboriginal Affairs, I regarded as important for Aboriginals. I have spoken of the possible inability of Aboriginals to absorb vitamin C. Many Aboriginals have a grave genetic difficulty in absorbing milk sugars. Therefore, protein-enriched biscuits, which are made in a special way and which do not contain milk sugars, would be of particular help to Aboriginal nutrition. It is another matter which, again, I think might be followed up. I said earlier that it is a small, peripheral and trivial matter in a way, yet I am not certain that it will not be of considerable consequence. I have tried to be practical in discussing one or two of these smaller matters. When honourable members examine the program which the Minister has to carry out it consists, in this field, of so many small and different tasks that one surely does not envy the Minister his task. He is bound to make errors. These cannot be helped. The honourable member for Brisbane referred to risk ventures and risk capital. He was, I think, right. 
Finally, as the time available to me in this debate has nearly expired, I make 2 points again. Firstly, Aboriginals are not all the same. They are not all uniform. They deserve to be treated in accordance with their normal human differences. Secondly, we should be endeavouring, so far as possible, to transfer to them authority over their own life, whatever they choose it to be. 
During October there were numerous reports in the newspapers of locust depredations. Those reports seem to have tailed off because the depredations, although still continuing, are in a phase of lull. 
I do not believe that this is anything more than a temporary respite. I think the position is likely to become a good deal more serious next month. This is not inevitable; it depends upon the weather. But if the weather pursues its likely course, as far as one can foresee the locust plague which we will have next month and during the autumn will be the worst ever experienced in Australia. This has come about because of the quite unusual weather pattern - the succession of cold fronts which have come over from the west and which have brought to the centre of Australia and the western part of Queensland and New South Wales quite unaccustomed rain. 
The potential seriousness of this situation should be realised. I know that the Government has done something in this regard. I acknowledge that it has made available, I think, defence auxiliaries costing about $60,000 and that it has offered, I think, $500,000 as a dollar for dollar subsidy to the States. But I am afraid that what the Government has done has been too late and will be too little in view of the quite extraordinary weather patterns which have established themselves during this year. The New South Wales Government, I think, has requested the establishment of an anti-locust commission, and I am hoping that this proposal will receive more sympathetic and energetic action from the Government than it has to date. 
The position of the Commonwealth has been complicated by a tragic event, namely, the recent death of  Dr Clark,  who was the key man in the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation in the locust campaign. I can realise, and we all would realise, that an event of that character must throw things out of gear to some extent. The Commonwealth, I think as long ago as 1964, embarked on an anti-locust investigation in the CSIRO and brought in advice from overseas, where for many years there has been an anti-locust establishment which more recently has been taken over by the United Nations. 
Let me deal with the nature of the locusts. Our Australian plague locust, the Chortoicetes terminifera, is not the same as the plague locust of the Middle East, the Schistocerca gregaria; but it is a cousin and in many respects it behaves in a similar way. It is a little smaller, but it shares the peculiar manifestation of the phase change and it has the same capacity to migrate. The other locust in Australia, the Austracris guttulosa, what is known as the spur throated locust, is more likely to give trouble in the north, but it can still make some incursion at least into the northern part of New South Wales. 
The important point to remember about our plague locusts is what is known as the phase change. In the solitary phase these insects do not breed very extensively, but when their concentration gets to a certain level a population explosion occurs and the solitary locust undergoes morphological and other changes and becomes the plague locust operating in bands and behaving in quite a different way. This apparently is a behaviour common to all related locusts in various parts of the world. This phase change, which was not recognised by scientists, I think, until as late as 1920 or thereabouts, is the specific thing which makes the locust so dangerous. As honourable members know the locust breeds in this manner: The eggs are laid, the hoppers emerge and then they become winged. It is only in the gregarious state after the phase change that they form the locust bands. The cycle from egg laying to egg laying can be as short as 10 weeks, but it can be as long as 6 months or even 9 months, depending upon the weather. 
Our locust migrates. The low flying swarms which we see seldom travel more than 10 miles in a day; but night flights, which recently have been tracked by radar and other means, are possible, and a night flight of a swarm can be as long as 250 miles in a single night. So the fact that they are distant is not always a protection. Much depends on the wind, and the breeding depends on the temperature and the rainfall. The meteorological conditions are controlling it. For example, the locusts which presently are operating in the Murray Valley and thereabouts are believed to have originated in a swarm at Blackall in Queensland and to have come south over approximately 9 months, with 3 generations breeding on the way and, of course, with an increase in each generation. Normally, the chief breeding grounds on the western plains of New South Wales and the Darling Downs spill their locusts westward with the wind, and the locusts die out in the western area because the ground is too dry and the conditions necessary for their multiplication do not exist. But this year the swarms, instead of dying out, are likely to have laid their eggs. The cold fronts which have come through precipitate the egg laying phase. This is why the danger of a further outbreak is now so near to us. 
Let me mention the chief things that are threatened. The wheat probably will be in before any big plague develops. The plague is not inevitable, but it is highly likely. It depends on the weather. The chief victim would be the cotton in the Narrabri-Wee Waa area. Already the locusts are eating the cotton in the St George area in Queensland. Also threatened would be the fruit and vegetables in the Riverina and all coarse grains and vegetable crops which might be out at the time. We need more resources to combat the locusts. The cotton crop alone, which could be wiped out entirely, would be worth $25m or $30m in the Wee Waa area. I emphasise to the House that, although the danger is not inevitable, the potential danger exists at the moment and we should be doing much more about it. More resources are needed. Control cannot be exercised locally. We need to know more about what is happening. This morning I received a letter from the CSIRO which states that it has received no reports about the Birdsville area since last May. That letter states: 
A high density locust population occurred at Birdsville, but no actual swarm developed. However, single swarms were reported from Glengyle and Monkira Stations, and a hopper band was located 40 miles north of Birdsville itself. 
The letter further states: 
No information is available on whether these locusts produced extensive egg beds. 
It is not only this year about which we should be concerned. If the weather continues in its present cycle, the position might be even worse next year. We should do much more about it, particularly about surveys at the present moment. I believe that this is something which both sides of the House will support. I am not trying excessively to blame the Government. I think it could have done more, in view of the developing weather and the developing pattern. It has been slow to react. In the interests of the whole agricultural community of Australia, I think we should be devoting many more resources, both in the CSIRO and in other places, to this potential, not actual, menace which could be one of the worst disasters that Australian agriculture has yet experienced. 
My question is directed to you,  Mr Speaker.  I ask: Do you agree that the aesthetic impact of a work of art is increased by the contemplation of it in the circumstances in which it was created? When that bargain-priced masterpiece 'Blue Poles' reaches its fortunate purchasers in Australia, will you discuss with the  President  of the Senate the possibility of having the painting laid out on the floor of Kings Hall so that honourable members and senators can view it from the viewpoint of its inspired creator? Will you further arrange for free drinks to be served in Kings Hall so that honourable members and senators can share to the full in the inspiration of the artist or artists? If the painting is so exhibited, will you ensure that it is securely fenced off in order to shield us from the temptation to take off our shoes and affix addendums to it in the same manner in which the basic painting was allegedly done? 
I do not altogether disagree with the conclusion of the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  although I do not agree with his reasoning. I think this legislation should be continued, and I agree that it is interim legislation which may not yet go far enough. It is legislation which was founded, I think, on the principles enunciated by the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton),  when he was Prime Minister, and I think the actual Bill was brought in by the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon).  It was in line with the policy of the past Government and not in line with the policy of the present Government, then the Labor Opposition, which has been entirely opportunist in this matter. Let me remind the House that when this matter came up - and I put the exact date - in November 1951, when there was a takeover proposed of an Australian broadcasting network by foreign interests - this was the worst kind, the most obnoxious kind, of takeover - the Labor Party in this House supported it and voted for it to a man, because they had a dirty, underground arrangement that the London 'Daily Mirror' would take over the Macquarie broadcasting system in Australia and it would become a media propagandist for the Labor Party. Now,  Sir- 
No,  Sir. 
I am showing how, in relation to this legislation, circumstances have changed. I am entitled to do that. Because those circumstances have changed, I claim that perhaps this interim measure does not now go far enough. This change has occurred. It is not due to the actions of this Government. It is just one of those things that have happened through circumstances outside the control of the Government. It flows mainly from the policy of the past Liberal Government. Because that policy succeeded, our balance on current account which used to be$700m or $800m a year in debit is now a corresponding sum in credit. 
Now,  Sir- 
But,  Sir- 
I am only being consistent with the practices of this House. If you have made a mistake in ruling in the past,  Sir, that  is no reason why you should make a mistake in ruling now. 
I am being entirely consistent- 
I am proposing only to continue to speak in accordance with the practices of this House. I do not intend to go beyond the practices of this House in speaking to a Bill of this character. When talking about an extension of a power, one is entitled to discuss whether that power is adequate - of course. It would be entirely at variance with the practices of this House, established in the last 30 years or 40 years, for you to rule otherwise. 
I am not reflecting on the Chair. 
I am simply discussing whether the amending Bill is adequate. It would be outrageous for you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  to rule that I could not discuss that. I do not think that you would so violate- 
I am sure you would not make a mistake. 
So far as those conditions are relevant to the legislation, of course I may refer to them in accordance with the practices of the House. I know that you are new in the chair,  Sir, and  new in the House, but I- 
I am not reflecting on the Chair - anything but,  Sir. 
What I am saying is that circumstances have changed in regard to this Bill. We must consider whether the present legislation is adequate or not. I do not know whether I shall be moving an amendment in the Committee stages of the Bill. At present I do not know. But at least I am entitled to canvass the adequacy of the legislation for the purpose of carrying out its prospective objectives. In the past, capital inflow was necessary and the foreign takeovers which came from that capital inflow were inevitable. Now, circumstances have changed. It may be that we should be regarding capital inflows and takeovers in a more severe light than we were entitled to do in the past because of the changed economic circumstances. I agree - I think all honourable members will agree with me - that the condition of the world is unstable by reason of the oil embargo. We cannot tell quite what effect the oil embargo will have on our terms of trade. In considering the terms of the proposal before us, we must have due regard to that instability, the consequences of which none of us at present can adequately forecast. 
I do not think the inflow of foreign capital is always unwelcome. It is certainly welcome when there is an endemic debit in Australia's balance on current account, as we had. Sure, it is welcome in those circumstances. It is not only welcome; it is essential. But at present it is not essential. Let us consider this question of takeovers and where, and to what extent, they can be welcomed. Certainly a takeover can be welcomed when it brings into Australia a technique which is not available from local sources. It may bring with it from abroad some kind of skill which would not be available from any locally based industry. In those circumstances some kind of takeover might well be welcomed. It could be welcomed perhaps when it represents some participation in foreign markets which would enable us to make export sales which otherwise we would not have achieved. For example, in regard to some of our mineral exports it may well be - in fact I know it is - that some degree of foreign participation - not control - may be necessary in order to achieve a market for Australia for some ores, a market which, if we did not allow that, would be satisfied from Russian, Canadian or Brazilian sources. These are elements and it may be that because of some defence requirements a takeover should be welcomed because we do need- 
Surely I can debate whether or not the amendment goes far enough. 
Perhaps an amendment to the principal Act is involved, but I am debating whether or not the amendment is adequate. 
But,  Sir- 
I am debating whether the amendment is adequate to carry out the purposes of the long title of the Bill and whether we should amend section 2 of the Act in this way or in another way. I am entitled to debate that under the normal practices of the House. 
It has in the past. 

 - Sir, piffle. 

Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In general, I think the Extradition (Foreign States) Bill should be supported. But there is one important feature of it which 1 would call into question and in relation to which perhaps the Government will accept an amendment. In introducing this Bill the Minister for Secondary Industry and the Minister for Supply  (Mr Enderby)  said: 
The purpose of the Extradition (Foreign States) Bill before the House is to give effect in Australian law to a number of new extradition treaties negotiated with foreign countries during the term of office of the former Government. 
The Minister went on to specify those countries as being the Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, Israel, Austria, Sweden and the United States of America. Insofar as treaties with those countries are concerned there can be no question. Indeed with many of the provisions of this Bill there can be no question. But I do draw the attention of the House to the provisions of clause 9 of the Bill and ask that it be examined in some detail because I think there is good reason for my moving in the Committee stage of the debate that clause 9 of the Bill be rejected. 
I will be asking the Government to accept an amendment to this clause for the reasons I will give. There is no point in suggesting that the Government could be forced to accept such an amendment because, as I understand it, the Bill already has been passed by the Senate. The Government has an unquestioned majority in this House. Therefore the Opposition cannot force the Government in any way to accept any such amendment. But I do appeal to the Government to have another look at clause 9 and to reconsider it. Perhaps second thoughts should be given to it. 
I want to base my remarks purely on clause 9 of the Extradition (Foreign States) Bill and to point out what it seeks to do and what its effect will be on the existing legislation. Clause 9 seeks to omit sub-section (2) of section 13 of the principal Act and to put a new subsection in its place. The proposed sub-section is in many respects identical with the subsection which it seeks to replace. But there are 3 significant differences. The provision relates to the right of the Government to grant extradition in respect of a person where a foreign state requests that extradition. I do call this into question because I believe that the amending sub-section could be used in relation to what we know as political crimes and could be a weapon of terror to be held over a large number of people who have come to Australia as refugees from communist countries and who are very frightened of being sent back. 
I want to examine the 3 vital differences between the existing provision and clause 9. I want the House to compare sub-section (2) of section 13 of the principal Act with proposed sub-section (2) of section 13 as contained in clause 9 of the Bill. The differences are as follows: Under the existing Act extradition is not to be granted unless certain provisions are complied with. Perhaps I had better read the relevant part of the Act. Sub-section (2) of section 13 states: 
A person is not liable to be surrendered to a foreign state unless provision is made by a law of that state, or by a treaty in force between the Commonwealth and that state, by virtue of which the person will not, unless . . . 
Clause 9, which is the provision which seeks to replace sub-section (2) of section 13, states: 
A person is not liable to be surrendered to a foreign state unless provision is made by a law of that state, or by a treaty in force between Australia and that state, or that state has given an undertaking, by virtue of which the person will not . . . 
The operative words are the insertion 'that state has given an undertaking'. In the existing Act that state either has to have this in its law or alternatively to have this in an extradition treaty. That is fair enough. Those words have been left in. But added to them are the sinister words 'or that state has given an undertaking'. Which of us WOUld rely on an undertaking given by a communist government and which of us would ask an Australian refugee from Russia, the Balkans or any other communist state to rely on an undertaking of a communist government? It is an outrage. I do not know why this clause has been included in the Bill. It is quite unnecessary. If a country wants to do so it can put such a provision in its treaty or make such provision in its law. That is provided for in the existing legislation. Surely it is good enough. Why do we want to change the existing Act? Perhaps this is something which has slipped through, perhaps nobody realised its implications, perhaps it is a sinister move; I do not know. This is something which, when its implications are known, will not be welcomed by a number of our citizens who have come from overseas. A large section of the migrant community will not like that provision. That is the first point. I have said that there are three. 
I come now to the second point of vital change. The old Act says that an undertaking has to be given that certain things will not happen unless the person has been returned or has had the opportunity of returning to Australia. This Bill substitutes the words: 'Unless he has left, or had an opportunity of leaving that state' - that is the communist state to which he has been extradited. Under the old Act he had the protection of being sent back to Australia but under the Bill he will not have that protection at all. All that the communist state will have to do is to give an undertaking - not to send him back to Australia before trying him for a political offence but to send him to another state. A man could be extradited to Russia on some kind of trumped up extraditable crime and then he could be sent to Bulgaria and tried for a political crime in Bulgaria. That would be absolutely in accordance with the terms of this Bill. Surely the Government does not intend to do this. Surely the Government does not intend to open loopholes for communist states to abuse or hold in terrorem our new citizens who have come as refugees to Australia believing that they will be safe from the tentacles of communist extradition. Under this Bill it would be possible for somebody to be extradited to Russia on a trumped up extradition charge, and then be sent to Bulgaria for trial for a political crime in Bulgaria. There will not be any violation of the Australian law if this Bill were passed. Surely that would be a shame. Surely the Government does not intend to allow this kind of abuse to occur. 
I have mentioned 2 things, and now for the third. At present, according to the existing Act a person cannot be extradited unless the undertaking has been given 'that he has the opportunity of returning to Australia, that he will not be detained or tried in that foreign state for any offence that is alleged to have been committed, or was committed, before his surrender other than the offence to which the requisition for his surrender relates or any other offence of which he could be convicted upon proof of the facts on which that requisition was based'. The new Bill is more or less the same but it adds the sinister clause: 
. any other extradition crime in respect of which the Attorney-General consents to his being so detained or tried, as the case may be. 
The man has gone abroad. He is out of the jurisdiction of the Australian courts. The power of the Australian courts to restrain the Attorney-General from deportation - that is a very real power, as the Government knows - has been lost because he is outside Australia. Now the Attorney-General can consent to his being tried for any other extradition crime - something which was never before the court in Australia when the mechanics of his extradition were being discussed. 
I will be told that an extradition crime is a pretty serious crime; and so, in theory, it is. But if honourable members look at the First Schedule to the Bill, which relates to extradition crimes, they will see that they include, for example, No. 8 which is 'Assaulting a police officer'. A mere scuffle in the streets at a demonstration or the allegation of a scuffle in the streets at a demonstration - assaulting the police. This is the kind of charge that is either dismissed by a magistrate or perhaps attracts a very small fine in Australia. But that is an extradition crime. It is No. 8 in the First Schedule. We would not consider this a serious crime and yet it is the kind of crime for which the Attorney-General can now consent to a man being tried and convicted, really on political grounds, by some communist court. There are other crimes which we would perhaps consider of a tendentious or not a serious nature. Number 27 is 'an offence against the law relating to companies'. It could be a quite technical offence. It might not mean anything. But it is still an extraditable crime. There are offences against the laws of companies which are punished in our courts - some by only a small fine, if at all. It is true that some of them are serious, but there are also trivial and technical offences, yet they are extraditable crimes under the First Schedule to the Bill. 
I put it to honourable members that the Attorney-General should not be placed in the position whereby pressure can be brought to bear upon him by a foreign country, nor should he be put in the position whereby he himself can abuse his office. Either of these would be undesirable. The Attorney-General of this country should not be put in a position whereby a foreign country, having got its hands on somebody for extradition under some kind of pretence, can obtain the AttorneyGeneral's consent. Imagine the kind of pressure that could be brought to bear. I know that in respect of communist countries we have a lickspittle government at present. We have seen the present Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  terrorising a number of immigrants to Australia by threatening them with deportation for actions which probably were not crimes at all and telling the communist country that he would see that they were deported. He did not deport them because public opinion stopped him from doing so. But he went on public record and threatened them with deportation. Smooging up to the communist country, he said: 'We will see that they are deported'. Are we to put this kind of power into the hands of any Attorney-General, let alone the present Attorney-General? 
Should we not take another look at clause 9 of the Bill? Clause 9 is quite unnecessary. All it does is to amend sub-section (2) of section 13 of the existing Act. Sub-section (2) is quite good enough. It is not subject to these abuses. It is workable, and it should remain. Why does the Government want to put loopholes in this section? Why should it be doing so when there is this obvious possibility of abuse? 
I have mentioned 3 things. Each one of them is bad, but when put together they are very bad indeed. The 3 things are these: Firstly, as well as the arrangements which may be made by a treaty or by the law of the country, we add this terrible phrase - let me read it exactly from the Bill in front of us - or that state has given an undertaking, by virtue of which that person will not' etc. To the treaty and to the law one adds the power to satisfy this simply by giving an undertaking. It is not good enough to do this and I dare say that our Australian citizens who have come from overseas will agree with me that this is not good enough and that this kind of loophole should not be open. 
The second thing is much worse: Under the present law an extraditing country must give an understanding that if extradited persons are not convicted they will be returned to Australia. But under the Bill before the House all it has to do is to give an undertaking that they will be sent to another state - and we know what is the relationship between a Communist country and one of its satellites. Certainly Russia can send them to Bulgaria and so satisfy the letter of the new Bill, which I hope will not be passed. A man sent to Bulgaria could be tried and convicted for a political offence - and wc know the kind of political offences which arc capital or near capital offences under the laws of Communist countries. Among those offences, of course, is the offence of escaping, the offence of illegal emigration. While the shame of the Berlin Wall exists and while we conveniently ignore that shame- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER  (Mr  Scholes)Order! I would have thought that the honourable gentleman was speaking fairly closely to the contents of the Bill. It is an extradition Bill. 
I will- 
I am a little puzzled about this, perhaps because I am not as familiar with all the details as I should be. Clause 7 of the Bill states: 
Section  8  of the Principal Act is repealed. 
Clause 3 states: 
Section 8 of the Extradition (Foreign States) Act 1968 is repealed. 
As the principal Act is the Extradition (Foreign States) Act 1966-1972, perhaps the Minister would explain to me the reference to the Extradition (Foreign States) Act 1968. Is this just the saving of warrants? What is the real purpose of the clause? It may well have quite a good purpose in law, but I do not have all the documents in front of me. I would like the Minister to explain to me why the reference to section 8 appears twice. 
The Committee should not be required to pass a Bill when it does not really know what the Bill is all about. There is probably a perfectly good explanation for this. I am not saying that this is sinister or bad. There seems to be a little double talk here. There may be a very good reason for it. 
I am perfectly happy to believe that there really is a good reason for it. Would the Minister be so kind as to oblige me by telling me what the reason is? Surely this is not an unreasonable request. The Minister must be familiar with every detail of the Bill; otherwise he would not be in charge of it. I am not trying to say that there is anything wrong with this. I would just like to know what it is all about. 
 Mr Chairman- 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  proposed: 
That the question be now put. 
No! 
No! 
Yes. 
A division was called for. 
A division has been called. 
Yes. 
 Mr Chairman,  on clause 8- 
Clause agreed to. 
No, a division is called for. 
It is the clause to which I will endeavour to address my remarks at this stage. 
That the question be now put. 
Government supporters - Aye! 
No! 
 Mr Chairman,  I have a friend. 
Clause 9 agreed to. 
Progress reported. 
I have not had an opportunity to read these reports. I therefore make no comment at all upon them. The turtle project was started, as an experimental project only, when I was the Ministerincharge of Aboriginal Affairs. Ibelieve at the moment that it is a sound project. I shall read the. reports presented today and perhaps modify my views in the light of them. The only point I want to make is that in this discussion the main consideration is the interests of the Torres Strait Islanders who have committed themselves to this project on the advice and encouragement of the Government. I hope that any decision that is made will have regard particularly to the interests and morale of the Torres Strait Islanders who have cooperated, I think, in circumstances of great difficulty, in the development of this project. I agree that it seems at first glance that things have not gone right as it has expanded into a commercial project. As an experimental project it was fully justified and, as far as I know at present, it should be continued as such. I shall read the reports with the very greatest of interest. 
I am sorry indeed that the honourable Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  is not in the House. I gave him notice that I intended to raise a matter which concerned him. Perhaps he will be in the House before I have concluded by remarks. It is not very often that I bring into this House a particular matter affecting a constituent of mine but I think that I should put the record straight and say exactly what it concerns. It concerns the Minister for Immigration quite vitally. At the beginning of May of this year a certain person in my constituency to whom I refer as  Mr X  - the name and the papers are known to the Minister - came to me. He was an immigrant; he was a refugee from a Communist controlled economy. He was qualified as a pharmaceutical chemist but was unable for some technical reason to have his qualifications recognised so that he could practice as such in Australia and indeed in New South Wales. It was important for certain reasons that he should have some support. 
I am glad the Minister is now here. Perhaps I will start again. A certain person to whom I shall refer as  Mr X  came to me. The name is known to the Minister and the file is in the Minister's hands but I do not want to mention the personal affairs of a constitutent by name. He was a qualified pharmaceutical chemist but he was unable to have his qualifications recognised as such in New South Wales and he was asking for the Minister's help in certain ways. I wrote to the Minister on 9 May asking could he please give me some advice as to how best I could assist  Mr X  to qualify. On 16 May the Minister very promptly replied to me by telegram, as follows: 
Have received your representation on behalf of  Mr X  concerning employment. Am inquiring personally. Will advise. 
That was a most proper telegram and I was grateful to receive it, and I passed it on to my constituent. But unhappily nothing happened. In June I wrote to the Minister as follows: 
You will recall . . . telegraphing me on 16 May I wonder if you would get one of your officers to look at this matter urgently for me as I understand the closure date for ... examination is in July and  Mr X  is anxious to have clarity before then. 
I believe the Minister may well have been abroad on one of his trips and had not returned to Australia. I received a telegram from the Acting Minister as follows: 
Have received your representation on behalf of  Mr X.  Will write shortly. Douglas McClelland, Acting Minister for Immigration. 
That was dated 22 June. It was a most proper telegram, of course, but nothing had been happening. Nothing happened at all, except that I got a letter dated, I think, 4 July saying that they hoped to do something about it; but it was one of these wipe-off, indefinite letters that the Department writes from time to time. My constitutent  Mr X  was vastly displeased at this, but I heard nothing further until I received representations from him. He came in to see me personally. He said: 'Look! I have written to the Minister by registered letter and the Minister has refused to receive the letter'. This seemed to me to be utterly incredible. He said: 'I have done it twice. I have put the registered letter in another letter, and here it is. It came back to me from the Minister for Immigration,  Mr Grassby,  Parliament House, Canberra, marked " Refused by addressee " by the post office in Parliament House'. 
So I went down and I interviewed the officer in charge of the post office here. I said to him: What is this all about? This is incredible. Surely no Minister would do this - and do it twice. Incredible'. He said: This is so'. I said: Perhaps the Minister's staff has done this'. He said: 'I can't remember the actual circumstances but I am quite certain that we would not have just marked the letter like that - to be returned to the sender - without some indication that the Minister refused to receive it'. I have the actual letter in my hand. 
A registered letter to the Minister marked 'Refused by addressee - R.T.S.'. I have not opened it. I am told that it includes the advice that 2 letters - not one - addressed to the Minister have been refused receipt. I am glad that the Minister is in the House because I propose to take the opportunity to deliver the letter to him personally now; and I hope that he will not refuse to receive it. The whole matter is utterly and completely incredible to me; but here is the actual evidence, with the endorsement of the postal clerk in the Parliament House post office. I have been to that post office and been told by the staff that they would not have done this simply because the Minister's staff had told them that the Minister was not available. As I have said, I regard this whole matter as utterly and completely incredible. But here is the perfect proof of it in my hand, endorsed by the post office just below King's Hall Refused by addressee. Return to sender', and with the clerk's initials - H.R. - marked on it. It was returned to the sender and the sender has put it in my hands so that it can be delivered to the Minister personally. 
I do not want to argue the rights and wrongs of this case or what the Minister could do about it. I believe that much more should be done to see that the technical qualifications acquired abroad by people who have migrated to Australia are recognised here. I am told that the Minister endorses this view. I am astonished at the fact that this occurs because of some kind of attitude - I could almost say arrogance - and that the Minister refuses to receive a registered letter. I am told that in his electorate the Minister is believed to be quite a phony person; that he says all kinds of things; that he makes all kinds of promises; and that he holds himself out to be a humane man. Yet, here in my hand is this letter - I will deliver it to the Minister tonight - addressed: The Minister for Immigration,  Mr Grassby,  Parliament House, Canberra, ACT 2600'. It was endorsed by the Post Office at Parliament House 'Refused by addressee; return to sender', I have been told - and I do not know what is inside the letter - that this has occurred not once but twice. We talk about beggars on horseback and things like that, but it seems to me that the Labor Ministry has got altogether above itself. When I was a Minister I certainly never refused to accept a registered letter addressed to me by any constituent, or indeed, by any member of the public. A Minister has a responsibility to every Australian, not just to his constituents. I see that my time has almost expired. I take the opportunity now of going down and personally delivering to the Minister the letter that he refused to accept. 
No, but I do not think it is necessary to add anything further. I will resume my seat. 
I resent the remark made by the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  a few moments ago that honourable members on this side of the House are taking up the debating time available for this legislation by debating other measures land motions. If this be so, so what? Members of this. Parliament are here to debate important matters. If we do not have enough time to do this we should be sitting for longer hours. I do not want to leave matters undebated. The real scandal is that matters of major importance to this country are going through this House without being debated. The Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill 1973 will be virtually undebated in this House. The Health Insurance Bill will be quite inadequately debated. Under the guillotine foreshadowed by the Minister we will not have a chance to put our views. 
This Parliament is a debating chamber. Ministers and members have views which should be heard and known. I do not take the view, which some supporters of the Government take, that what we say here is simply a matter of farce and routine. This Parliament has a duty at the Committee stage of a Bill to look at the details of the Bill. At the present time the only thing that stands beween Australia and despotism is the Senate which can look at the Bills and does have some kind of function of revision. But it is in this place, the principal House, where these things should be discussed and where the details of the Bills should be thrashed out, we are not allowed to discharge this function. I resent very much the statements of the Leader of the House. He suggested that if we speak on thi* matter or another matter we will be taking up the time of the House and as a result important Bills cannot be debated. Nothing could be less true. This House should sit longer if there remain Bills to be debated. The first duty of every honourable member here is to see that the legislation that comes before this House receives adequate scrutiny. One would have thought that honourable members on the Government side would have seen this. I was shocked at what the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  said when he got up and spoke a few moments ago. 
This House has a duty in regard to the Committee stage of legislation. I know, for example, that some hundreds of things could come under proper and detailed scrutiny at the Committee stage of the Health Insurance Bill. But there will be no time for that. We will not be allowed time for that. The Government is going to override all the rights of people in this House. I am not talking about unimportant Bills or about a subject which is unimportant. Maybe there is something to be said for truncating debate on some measures. But these matters, and other matters which have been dealt with this session, have been of major importance. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has boasted that he intends to overturn the whole social fabric of Australia. He is bringing in Bill after Bill aimed at achieving this objective. These are major matters; they are not just routine matters. This legislation is to go through this House without adequate discussion because the Government refuses to allow time for a discussion. I believe that the Government is covering up things. I believe that in, the health Bills and the first draft of the Petroleum 'and Minerals Authority Bill there are a number of detailed points which I believe are very treacherous points put in by the Government and that the Government is trying to cover them up in this House. 
I will conclude my remarks now because I do not wish to detain the House any longer. I say in conclusion: Thank God for the Senate', because it is only the Senate that stands between this country and the most arbitrary and dreadful form of despotism which the Australian Government is trying to impose on us. I know that one of the planks of the Labor Party's platform is the abolition of the Senate. I know that for all the Government's smooth talk that this is what it is trying to do and is working towards. The Senate does stand as some kind of guardian. But it should not be necessary because the real function should be in this House? Why are we throwing the whole of this burden on to the Senate? We are doing so because the Government will not allow adequate discussion in this House at the Committee stage of Bills. I do not refer just to the Bills that are the subject of this guillotine; I refer to the numerous major Bills that have gone through this House under the most dreadful and outrageous guillotines during this session. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker- 

My words are not always acceptable to the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly),  that notable falsifier of Hansard, but I will still go on. I agree with some of the ' things that have been said by the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun),  and particularly do I agree with what he has been saying about the importance of improving geriatric care. Many things in the Government's explanation of this Bill are worthy of support, and indeed we are supporting them. I am a little worried, however, that in some respects the terms of the Bill are not quite in consonance with the Government's explanation and the Minister's explanation of them. I look particularly at clause 5 of the Bill, and I draw the attention of the House to the drafting of that clause. 
The description put forward by the Government is that this Commission is a planning commission only, that it will not be active and will not put in services; it will set the framework in which other agencies can act. That is what the Government has said, but I am worried that clause 5, which sets out the functions of the Commission, is not more explicit in confining the work of the Commission to that planning function. Paragraph (f) of sub-clause (1) gives as one of the functions of the Commission the following: 
to promote the provision of adequate health services, including - 
information and education services for the preservation of health; &lt;ii) services for the prevention of illness; 
diagnostic, treatment and rehabilitation services; and 
domiciliary health care services; 
Those items really cover the whole gamut of a possible health service and, if the function of the Commission is simply to plan, it is proper that it should be covering that whole gamut. However, the introductory words state that it is to promote the provision of adequate health services. That does not say that it will promote the planning for the provision of adequate health services, and it would appear that this Bill, perhaps because of bad and obscure drafting, is not confining the Commission to the planning function. 
Paragraph (h) sets out one of the functions of the Commission and refers to 'such other functions in relation to health care as the Minister approves'. It does not mention planning health care, as it should if the description of the Minister and the Government of this Bill is to be taken at face value. In other words, we have a provision in the Bill which is different from the Government's own description of it. I am especially worried about it because this follows the kind of treachery of which the Government has been guilty in respect of at least two other Bills recently before this House. I shall give the examples of the Government's treachery which lead me to suspect the drafting of this clause. The Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor),  in his second reading speech on the Pipeline Authority Bill, said that the Pipeline Authority was to be a common carrier. But when the Bill came into the House, not only was there no provision that it should be a common carrier but the Minister himself rejected a provision that it should be a common carrier. The way in which he is developing his authority shows that it was essential for his purposes he should reject that provision. There we have an example of government treachery: The description of the Bill was different from what was in the Bill. 
Let me give another example that occurred only today in respect of the Health Insurance Bill. It was said in the Minister's second reading speech that preference in employment would be given to members of the staffs of health funds That is right and proper. But, unhappily, when we looked at the details of the Bill - I am not going into details; the debate was guillotined and we could not discuss it further because the Government stopped the discussion - we found that no such preference was provided. Here again was the position of the Government giving a description of a Bill in the Minister's second reading speech, supported by Government supporters, but a study of the Bill indicating that the terms of the Bill meant, or could mean, something else entirely. I am just wondering whether this same kind of treachery may not be inherent in clause 5 of this Bill. The Government describes this Commission as a planning commission. Well and good; there is something to be said for that and I think the proposition should be supported. But when one examines the functions of the Commission as set out in the Bill, one finds that they could go beyond that. I would suggest to the Government that when this Bill goes into the Senate, if it is not treacherous, if it really means what it says, the Government should perhaps amend in some respects the drafting of clause 5 to make it clear that the Bill does what the Minister says it is intended to do and that the Commission is confined to this planning function. 
My worries about this are confirmed by the drafting of clause 35 of this Bill; that is, the secrecy provisions, admirable, appropriate and good as they are. But if the Commission is simply a planning commission, I am wondering whether this kind of emphasis needs be placed on these provisions. The inclusion of clause 35 may be due in some respects to the fact that the Government proposes to go outside the ambit of the functions of the Commission as described in the Minister's second reading speech. 
I do not think that one can trust this Government. And because one cannot trust it, I believe that Bills that come before this House must be tightly drafted so that they do confine the functions of the authorities which are being set up to the description given to them by the Minister, speaking on behalf of the Government, when he makes his speech on the second reading. It may be said that the Government has no intention of going beyond that description of those functions. However, I do not think that the Government can be trusted. I say that it cannot be trusted particularly because of the treacherous behaviour of the Minister for Minerals and Energy who said in this House in his second reading speech - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes) Order! No point of order is involved. 
What I am saying is true. It is provable by the documents and by the Minister's second reading speech as recorded in Hansard. The honourable member should know better than to raise such a frivolous point of order. I do not .want to go beyond the established facts - and they are, of course, relevant. The Minister for Minerals and Energy did say these things in his second reading speech. He did refuse an amendment which, if it had been accepted, would have put the Bill in line with his second reading speech. He developed a policy afterwards which showed that he intended this to happen and that it was not entirely just an accident. Perhaps 1 am wrong in describing this as treachery. Perhaps my standards are different from those of the honourable member for Blaxland. But I would think it is a fair description of what happened in this House, it is for that reason I say that we have to be careful and I believe we should be careful in this regard. 
I understand that the Minister has given an assurance to the honourable member for Hotham that in the Senate the Government will accept a certain amendment, not the amendment about which I have been talking but another amendment of quite specific character which will preserve the very proper authority and function of the States in respect of this Commission. Because of that I think it is essential that I cut short my remarks and allow the Minister 5 minutes in which to speak before the guillotine comes down at 10.30 p.m. I will finish by saying that this is another instance where proper Committee discussion in this place is made impossible because of a quite ridiculous Government guillotine being brought down. This is perhaps not a Bill of absolutely major importance like some of those we have been talking about earlier today, but it is still an important Bill and there should be a Committee stage for it. 
Again I say, as I said earlier today on another occasion, thank God for the Senate because, if it were not for the Senate which has the power of amendment and the power of protection of the people of Australia against despotic action by this Government using its brutal majority as it does in this House, there would be no recourse against, dictatorship in Australia. I think this illustrates the importance of the Senate and the importance, while this Government goes on as it is, of maintaining always in the Senate and after the next election an anti-Government majority. It is vital to the whole of the people of Australia. 

 Mr CHIPP (Hotham)- by leave - When the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)  is replying will he also answer the question asked by the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer)  as to whether between now and the passage of this Bill through the Senate he will give consideration to amending the Bill to allow for reports under this Bill to be treated in the same way as are reports that are submitted to the Minister under the Social Welfare Commission Bill? 

 - Mr Speaker, a few minutes ago the Minister- 
For a personal explanation. 
Yes. A few minutes ago - I am sure that this was accidental - the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  misrepresented certain legislation for which I was responsible as Minister. He said that the upper limit on subsidies for aged persons homes could not be changed without an amendment to the relevant Act. That was untrue. I am sure he made the error in innocence. It is true that the Aged Persons Hostels Act requires amendment for the raising of the upper limit. The Minister - I am sure, innocently - misled the House, and the consequences that he put before the House simply do not follow. It is a matter of some importance. I regret that the Minister, although I told him that I would raise this matter, chose to walk out of the House rather than listen and accept the correction. It is very bad when Ministers do this kind of thing- 
I will have time to say only one sentence. The Minister for Minerals and Energy might consider why he is so accident prone in these matters-- 
On Thursday last, 2 or 3 days before the referen dum, speaking in this House, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  said that all academic economists in Australia believed that the national Parliament in Australia should have the jurisdiction to make laws on prices and incomes. When later the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  took him to task and mentioned a statement by Professor Michael Parkin, who thought to the contrary, the Prime Minister said: 
The honourable gentleman quite misrepresents him. 
These things stand in Hansard. Later that day 18 academic economists signed a letter and published it. I seek leave to have it incorporated in Hansard. 
Honourable members will have noticed an advertisement which appeared in many metropolitan newspapers yesterday under the heading 'Ukraine: The Almost Forgotten Battlefield for Human Rights' and which stated in part: 
The Ukrainian community in Australia, and indeed throughout the world, is greatly alarmed at the continuous flagrant breaches of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights by the regime of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. 
That regime, generally referred to as Russia, continually makes claims of having solved all problems with the question of nationalities. 
Ithas gone so far as to insist on membership in the United Nations for the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic and the Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic. Careerists in these puppet sovereign' republics hasten to better one another in new methods of providing proof that they are more 'Russian' than the real Russian. 
A monthly quota of arrests is carried out. Many thousands of people are being systematically persecuted, jailed in infamous Vladimir Prison, sent to 'corrective labor camps' graded on the basis of 'Severe regime' or 'General regime", no better than Nazi Germany's concentration camps, simply for daring to express a critical opinion of the regime's actions in Ukraine or other Soviet republics. 
No doubt that advertisement was paid for by subscriptions from little people in Australia who have come from the Ukraine and who know what the socialist system there really is. The advertisement was published, no doubt, because of the anniversary of the Declaration of Human Rights and because this weekend we are to be visited by the  President  of the Ukrainian National Republic in Exile,  Mr Livytskyj  who will be holding a public meeting in Canberra on Sunday. The House should take note of this. 
The Russian Soviet regime is almost selfconfessed a criminal regime in regard to human freedom. It seals off large areas of its territory so we cannot know at first hand what is happening there. It prevents emigration of Jews and other people from the Soviet Union. It will not let them get out of the prison house. Because it maintains this discipline of a prison regime it is able to terrorise its people into silence. 
And we keep silence while this is going on. Apparently we have this kind of double standard. We are falling over ourselves in the name of detente to cover up all these crimes against freedom and against humanity. I noticed only yesterday in the Press that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  was inciting the people of South Africa to violence against their own regime and declaring that such violence would be justified. I am not a defender of the South African regime but I say to the Prime Minister, who is here in the House - I say to the Prime Minister who is now ostentatiously leaving the House - that he exhibits a double standard in this respect. The crimes in South Africa are only a small part of the continous crimes against humanity which are being perpetrated still by the communist regimes, aggressive regimes in Europe and in Asia, which are enslaving their own people and not giving them normal human freedom and human decency. 
I say with regret that I speak to some extent about past Governments in Australia. I ask only that the Government of Australia should be even handed in this matter. If it wants to condemn a lack of freedom in South Africa, for example, let it also condemn the far more flagrant and vicious violations of freedom which are still taking place in the Soviet Union and its satellites. If we are worried about some hundreds of people killed at Sharpeville why are we not worried about the millions of victims murdered in the campaign of genocide by the Soviet Union in the Ukrainian Socialist Republic? Why do we make so much fuss about one and do nothing about the other? The world, at its peril, will ignore these attacks on freedom which are being made all the time - this cancerous slavery of the Soviet socialist system. It will ignore these things at its peril, believing that there is safety in surrender, that you can survive by crawling. I do not believe that the lessons of history will confirm that kind of view. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I shall not detain the House very long. I wish to draw attention to one matter which I think was raised by a Government member, that is, the implications of clause 6 of the Bill now before us, which were mentioned by the Minister for Secondary Industry  (Mr Enderby)  in the course of his second reading speech. This is simply a clause which is designed to change the name of the Commonwealth Public Service to the Australian Public Service. On the face of it that seems to be an innocent and insignificant proposal. I agree that none of us wants in any way to be ashamed of being an Australian. In fact just the opposite is the case. I think that all of us in this House should be proud of being Australians and would gladly use the word 'Aussie'. But the States of Australia are still Australian States and they have their own public services. Why should we arrogate to our Service the monopoly of the word 'Australian' We have the Public Service of New South Wales and the Public Service of Victoria, sure. But they are still Australian States and they have just as much right to describe themselves as Australians as have any of us here in this House. Everyone of us here in this House is a citizen not only of Australia but also of one of the Australian States. 
I know that this may seem to be a small point, but I believe it has quite important implications. I believe that this is the implication: That this Government is doing a number of underhand things which seem all right on the surface but which when put together in a pattern display an underhand motive. We have spoken in the past about the way in which seemingly well meaning measures can be fitted together into a plan of socialisation. But that is not what I want to speak about now. I am wondering whether this is not part of a plan to abolish the Australian States. We know that this is a centralist Government. We know by looking at the platform of the Australian Labor Party that it not only wants to abolish the Senate and take off all the brakes on its own arbitrary actions in this House but that it has in its platform the proposition to take away all real power from the States and make them simply agents of the Central Government here in Canberra operating in one chamber and with complete dictatorial powers. We know this. 
We have to be on our guard lest the present Government, without saying what it is doing, moves gradually towards that objective of abolishing the States, putting all power in Canberra and putting all power in one House of Parliament. I have seen in the year that is behind us many moves which could be interpreted in that way - moves which on the surface seem fair and reasonable and attractive enough but when they are put together into a pattern seem to move towards this funda mental Government objective of destroying the Australian States, destroying every other form of democratic government and centralising everything here in Canberra in one House of Parliament so that the man who obtained the Prime Ministership by some quirk or chance of fate will be able to perpetuate his power, be able to over-ride everything in the Constitution and have complete control of the whole Australian economy, social structure, family life and everything else that one can imagine. I know that this is the plan of the Government. 
Maybe clause 6 of the Bill, this innocent seeming little clause, is a small part of that same plan. It is not tremendously significant and it does not add up to very much. But when you take to yourself the adjective 'Australian', you deny to the States the power to describe themselves as Australian States. They are Australian States; they are part of the Australian system. Ours is a federal system and our Federal Service is the Commonwealth Service. It is not the only Australian Service. The States of New South Wales and Victoria have their own public services. They are Australian States and as such they are entitled, surely, to have some kind of use of this adjective. 
It is not a case of our trying to downgrade the use of the word 'Australian'. In fact, very much the opposite is the case. For my part, I would like to increase the significance of the word 'Australian'. But we do not increase that significance by denying the fact that South Australia, Western Australia, Victoria, New South Wales, Queensland or Tasmania is an Australian State. The States are part of the Australian system. The Australian system of government is not as yet a monolithic system of government. It is a federal system. It may be that the change proposed by the Bill does not mean much and that its significance is small. But even in these small things the straws show which way the wind is blowing. A little bit of twig or a leaf floating on the water shows which way the current is running. I believe that there is an underground current running through the Labor Party and the Government - the current of the desire to destroy and break down the whole system of federalism and to centralise everything. It is true that here we are dealing with a small thing - something which has only a symbolic, verbal significance. Yet I just wonder why this should be done. What is the purpose of it? What is the motive behind the things which are being done in this and other legislation? 
If this were a single thing I would not worry about it. But it fits into a pattern which is shown in the legislation which this Government has brought into this House in the past year. There are many, many examples of it. We know that we are dealing with a treacherous and underhand Government. We know that we are dealing with a Government which is denying to this House the power to debate Bills of major significance and which has used the guillotine to truncate debate, in a way which is absolutely without precedent, on major matters which go right to the root of the Australian community. We have not been allowed in this House to discuss them. We know, for example, that the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  tried to falsify Hansard. We know that; it is self-confessed. We know that the standard of truthfulness which the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has exhibited in this House is a little bit short of what would be desirable. We know that we are dealing with a Government which confesses that in itself it is the creature of people who are not elected by the Australian people but are responsible only to small groups. 
I do think that you are right,  Mr Speaker.  I know that it must be embarrassing for the Government that I should be bringing these things up. I do not want to press them too far. I just want to put them on record because it seems to me that in clause 6 of the Bill we have a small move in that same kind of treacherous and underhand direction. I was simply saying that one must always suspect the motives of this Government because it has shown itself, both in the conduct of individual Ministers and in the conduct of its policy and the way in which its policy is directed from outside this Parliament, to be untrustworthy and unworthy of the trust of the people of Australia. 
I am referring to clause 6 which proposes that we should change the name of the Commonwealth Public Service to the Australian Public Service. It is innocent sounding. Maybe it does not amount to very much. But perhaps it is a straw which shows the way the wind is blowing. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
I would like to correct the remark made by the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  that the first 4 Bills mentioned in the motion before the House had been debated sufficiently. That is not so. The Bills were brought in without proper consultation. They were gagged through without proper debate and the House did not have a chance of looking at them. The Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  has misinformed the House and the country of that specific point and it is quite wrong that he should be allowed to go uncorrected on that. He says: 'We are democrats', 'Let the people decide.' Fair enough, but what should the people be allowed to vote on? We know about the first 4 Bills that are before the House. I say nothing about the fifth Bill, which is unseen. Sure, we have seen the text of the first 4 Bills. Sure, we have not been allowed to vote on them. Sure, we have seen that these texts are quite deficient in matters of detail. But - and this is much more important - we know that some of the Bills are a mixture of good and bad, and the good has been put in in order to disguise the bad and to deceive the people who will come to vote in these referendums. These are treacherous Bills brought in by a rogue government for its own purposes. 
Yes, a rogue government that is out to socialise by stealth. I use those words quite deliberately. I speak first of the 4 Bills which have been debated previously, or should I say half debated because they did not go through their committee stages. I am saying that more than one of those Bills is a deliberate mixture of good and bad, and that the good things in the Bills are meant to cover up the bad. They represent an attempt by this Government to deceive the people voting at a referendum. The Government will be able to put forward good things and say: 'Look, if you oppose this Bill you will be opposing something good'. The good is there as a bait to cover up the bad that is in the Bills. It is quite wrong for the Leader of the House to say, as he said a moment ago: 'Let the people decide'. The people have a right to decide on things which have been properly debated by this House, and they have the right to have the questions before them divided properly, so that they can accept the good without having to accept the bad. 
The honourable member is quite right when he says: 'How do you tell the good from the bad?' Let the people make that decision. It is their right to make the decision at a referendum and, therefore, let the questions that come before the people at the referendum be properly framed and divided so that the people can tell the good from the bad. Do not do what is done in some of those 4 Bills, namely, mix up good and bad so that the people do not have an opportunity of accepting the good and rejecting the bad. The people will be given an opportunity only of accepting a mixture of good and bad which this Government has arbitrarily laid down and which it is attempting to put before the people without giving this House an opportunity to debate it. 
I say that my friend, the Leader of the House, attempted to mislead us and the country when he said a moment ago that we have had ample opportunity to debate these 4 Bills. As I have said, the reason we have not been given an opportunity to debate them in detail is that the Government is using these Bills as a means of deceiving the electors. I am afraid the Government will not be able to deceive the electors even at this second attempt. In its first attempt, in the referendum on control of prices and incomes, the people showed what they thought of the Government's attempts to do this kind of thing. However, in this case the reason we are not being allowed to debate in detail these 4 Bills and the reason why we were not allowed to debate them in detail when they were previously before the House is that the Government is endeavouring to use some good features as a bait in order to get the public to approve of bad features. The Government is not allowing a separate vote on the good and the bad. 
My friend opposite, the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh),  said very appositely and correctly: 'How do you tell the good from the bad?' The answer is, quite frankly, that the people should have an opportunity of telling the good from the bad and of being able to vote separately on the separate features, instead of having them lumped together in a way which the Government has decided arbitrarily and which it is not going to give this House an opportunity of debating or considering. The Committee stages of these Bills were gagged. They were not debated. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  is not being honest when he says that he is endeavouring to bring in a Bill that can be put before the people honestly. These are dishonest measures. They were not debated during the last session and they are not going to be debated in detail during this session because the Government is going to gag the Bills through in order to conceal its own inherent dishonesty. This above everything else shows the importance of the Senate and the importance of keeping the Australian Labor Party out of the Senate at the next election. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The honourable gentleman is straying a little wide of the subject matter of the debate. 
Thank you for bringing me back to the point,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I think that it is probably the most important point in this matter but, as you say, it may be a little extraneous to this present debate. All I say at present is that since these Bills have not been adequately debated in this House in the past, since their details have not been examined in the House and since the bad and the good in them have not been separated in this House, then thank God for the Senate because it is only the Senate that stands between Australia and socialism. 
Once again I rise to protest against the actions of the Government in regard to these Bills. It was said falsely in this House earlier tonight that we have had adequate debate on these Bills. That is not so. The consideration of each of these Bills at the Committee stage was guillotined so that they went through virtually without debate. The Hansard record of 14 November of last year shows that only a few minutes were allocated for consideration of the Bills in Committee. So the Bills have never been discussed in detail at all. They have never been considered in Committee as they should have been. These are some of the most important Bills that we could possibly have before us. They are Bills upon which the people have to vote. Because of this it is important that the details should be right, that the vote should be fair and that the people should know exactly what they are voting on, instead of being presented with the hotch potch that the Government is putting forward deliberately to cover up its real motives. 
In every matter affecting the Senate the good faith of the Government is in question, because the platform of the Government is to abolish the Senate. Therefore everything the 
Government does is part of that plan to abolish the Senate and is leading up to the abolition of the Senate. It is useless for the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  to come in here and protest that all the Government is doing is trying to improve the Senate. The Prime Minister is dedicated to the destruction of the Senate and everything he says is said in bad faith and with a deliberate intention of deceiving the Australian people. It is an appalling thing that we have a Prime Minister whose word cannot be trusted. 
Earlier this afternoon the Prime Minister came into the House and endeavoured to give us the impression - and as he was on the air he was endeavouring to give the country the impression - that this fifth Bill for the alteration of the Constitution that is in front of us had the unanimous support of the States. But he was not frank. He did not say anything about the reservations. We were left to hear this from the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  who revealed some of the truth. I say that a Prime Minister who comes in with a constitutional Bill and makes a second reading speech such as our Prime Minister made this afternoon is virtually lying to the House and to the country. 

 - Mr Speaker- 

Motion (by  Mr Daly)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  told us that the question to be put to the people would comprise the long title of this Bill. It is regrettable that in Committee we did not get a chance to discuss probably the most important matter that we could be discussing. It is important because the long title which will be put to the people is deceptive in that it does not reveal the full impact of this Bill. 
The implications of this clause are very great and they are not in accordance with the long title of the Bill which will be put to the people at the referendum. I do not want to deal so much with the substance of the clause as with its calculated deception because the clause does things which are quite outside the long title. The fundamental electoral law hitherto has been that the electors of Australia are the people to worry about - that the people we are concerned with are the people who are citizens of Australia and who have rights as electors. I am not saying that we should not extend this. I do not go so far as to deal with the substance of the clause but what I do say is that the long title does not in itself make clear the extreme gravity of this change in our fundamental electoral law. 
Let me again make my position quite clear: I am not at this moment aligning myself on one side or the other as to whether this change is justified. What I am saying is something a little different - that if a change as fundamental as this is to be made, the people should know what they are voting on when they come to the referendum. The effect of this Bill, if we pass it, will be that it will be put to the people at a referendum. Because it is a Bill to alter the Constitution it can have practically no effect until it is approved at a referendum. Normally, of course, with other kinds of Bills, the House of Representatives and the Senate are the final arbitors and judges. The Parliament makes the law. But when one is talking about altering the Constitution, it is the electors in the last run who make the law. Our prime responsibility is a responsibility to the electors and what we must ensure is that the electors are given a clear indication of what they are doing. Everything else is subsidiary to that. The electors must be allowed to know what they are voting on because in this type of case where an amendment to the Constitution is proposed, theirs is the final and important voice. 
I have drawn attention in the past to the fundamental bad faith of the Government in respect of these Bills which purport to amend the Constitution and that fundamental bad faith is evidenced in many ways. I think that I would be in order in reminding the House that the Australian Labor Party - the Government Party - is committed to such things as the abolition of the Senate and, therefore, when it comes to a Bill which relates to the Senate, the electors must always look at it in relation to the Government's ultimate motives. They would see that the Government is trying to play a double game with the people and that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the Government are not in point of fact being honest in regard to this matter. 
I return to this Bill and to this particular clause of the Bill. I am not trying to speak either for or against the substance of this clause. What I am saying is that this clause is a very far reaching clause. It goes a great way and therefore it is essential that the impact of this clause should be included in the long title because it is the long title which will be put to the people. Most of the electors - probably 99.78 per cent of the electors or something like that - will not have read the substance of the Bill or, at any rate, will not have read it in conjunction with the Constitution. They will not know what changes are really proposed to be made by the Bill. All they will know will be what is on the ballot paper with the long title and the most important thing about a Bill which is to go to a referendum is that the long title should correctly describe the full impact of the Bill. 
I look at clause 4 again and I remind the House that it makes a very fundamental change to the whole concept of our electoral system. It is a change which will go right to the roots of the system. As I have said, I am not trying to make out that in substance the change is a good change or a bad change. But I think the whole House will agree with me when I say that in point of fact it is a fundamental change. It is a change which will alter the impact of our whole electoral law. If that is so, the nature of that change should be made clear to the people in the question that is put to them on the ballot paper. They must be given an indication of what the Government is asking them to approve at the referendum. I turn now to the long title and I put it against clause 4. 
I have considerable doubts about this clause. In speaking to it I do not want to detract in any way from the doubts I have about the Bill as a whole. Let meturn my attention to the clause. It purports to insert in section 51 of the Constitution a new paragraph (ivA.). If one looks at section 51 of the 
Constitution one looks first at the preamble, which says in part: 
The Parliament shall, subject to this Constitution, have power to make laws .... 
This Bill purports to alter section SI by inserting a new paragraph (ivA.) which reads: 
The borrowing of money by the Commonwealth for local government bodies. 
That can only be done subject to the rest of the Constitution. I direct the attention of the Committee to section 105a. of the Australian Constitution, which seems to me to bear very much upon the operation of the clause under discussion, Section 105a. of the Constitution is the one that was inserted by the 1929 referendum, which gave the Commonwealth certain powers to make agreements with States in regard to State debts and borrowings. The section talks about such agreements. Sub-sections (4.) and (5.) of section 105a. state: (4.) Any such agreement may be varied or rescinded by the parties thereto. (5.) Every such agreement and any such variation thereof shall be binding upon the Commonwealth and the States parties thereto notwithstanding anything contained in this Constitution or the Constitution of the several States or in any law of the Parliament of the Commonwealth or of any State. 
These are very firm words and they are in the Constitution. They bind the Commonwealth. This means that in the borrowing of money, whether it be for local government or for the States, the Commonwealth is bound by the Constitution and such agreement cannot be altered except by the unanimous consent of the parties thereto. The Commonwealth cannot alter the basic agreement unilaterally. 1 am afraid that when one comes to look at the provisions of the financial agreement - I will not quote them in extenso because they are very complicated and long - one finds quite considerable restrictions placed upon the borrowing powers both of the Commonwealth and the States. 
There are provisions that the total amount to be borrowed shall be divided between the Commonwealth and the States in certain proportions. The Commonwealth has a prescriptive right to take moneys for defence purposes and, I think, 20 per cent of the balance. In default of unanimous agreement, the remainder is to be divided among the States in the proportion to their past borrowings. Again it is a very complicated formula. I remember particularly the Ham v. Fullagher opinion which was given in regard to the operation of this formula. I shall not weary the House by going into the details of that opinion; but I can assure the House that it is a very binding formula which the Commonwealth cannot unilaterally override. 
It may be that in this new clause we are giving to the Commonwealth power to borrow for local government, but we are not giving it power to borrow for local government outside the boundaries of the financial agreement. I am sure that it was by some drafting oversight that reference to the financial agreement was omitted. The Bill is defective. It is clumsy. It is drafted badly because the people concerned did not bother to read the details of the financial agreement. Let me remind the House that under the provisions of section 105a of the Constitution the financial agreement, which is virtually embedded in the Constitution, cannot be altered except by the unanimous consent of the parties thereto. Let me remind the House of the rather binding words of section 105a of the Constitution, which reads: (4.) Any such agreement may be varied or rescinded by the parties thereto. (5.) Every such agreement and any such variation thereof shall be binding upon the Commonwealth and the States parties thereto notwithstanding anything contained in this Constitution or the Constitution of the several States or in any law of the Parliament of the Commonwealth or of any State. 
I would like to have the time to go into these matters in detail but, by reason of the quite unreasonable guillotine which the Government imposed on this Bill when it was before the House on the last occasion and is imposing upon the House on this occasion, it is not possible for me to go into these details and to explain to the Government where it is wrong and what it should do if it wants this Bill to be effective. The Government is hoist with its own petard, as the phrase goes, because even if the proposal in this referendum were passed by the electors - I do not think it will be - the provisions of the Bill would be inoperable, effectively, by the Commonwealth unless the States agreed unanimously to some variation in the financial agreement. 
The financial agreement was a very tightly drawn agreement. I referred to the Ham v. Fullagher opinion. I think that opinion was given in 1932 or 1933 and it was concerned with the operations of the agreement. As my honourable and learned friend at the table would know, it is the classic authority in regard to the operations of the financial agreement. 
It is a very tight agreement, as I have said, and it means that, unless there is unanimity around the table to the contrary, the moneys borrowed are to be divided between the Commonwealth and the States in given proportions. Even if the referendum were passed - I do not think it will be - nothing in section 51 of the Constitution would enable the Commonwealth to contract for extra borrowings outside the ambit of the financial agreement. 
At the Committee stage of this Bill I made certain legal points. I believe they are substantial points. I believe the Government once again this afternoon has made a boo-boo, that it has produced a Bill which, because it has not understood the legal points in the Constitution, is an inoperable Bill. I propose now to resume my seat in order to give the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  an opportunity before the guillotine comes down, to address himself to the legal points that I have raised. I ask him to turn his mind to that, if he would be good enough, and let me know what he thinks about the operations of section 105a of the Constitution and the Financial Agreement which is embedded in the Constitution upon the way in which this proposed new clause (ivA.) in section 51 could operate and how it would be effected. Perhaps the honourable and learned gentleman would be good enough to give the House, and particularly myself of course, the benefit of his advice on this matter. 
I think that there are so many things about this Bill that are still in doubt that we would be well advised, even at this stage, to defer it. I know that the Government thinks otherwise, but I ask the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  to have second thoughts in this matter if his mind is still open. The House has been treated quite disgracefully. We have had virtually no Committee stage on this Bill at all. Yet it is a technical Bill which has tremendous constitutional difficulties and it is not easy for some of us to see our way through what these difficulties are. I think that there is a deliberate attempt by the Australian Labor Party to confuse the public in regard to this Bill in the hope that by confusion the people will pass these proposals through. We are told that this is not a Bill to centralise power in Canberra; it is a Bill to decentralise power. All I can say is Timeo Danaos et dona ferentes; I fear the Greeks even though they bear gifts. 
I am not going to oppose this motion but I should like to make one or two comments in regard to the matter. Firstly, let me say that I am not and I never will be impressed by any statement of facts from the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  because the Leader of the House is a self-confessed person who attempted to falsify Hansard and if he can falsify Hansard he can falsify facts of this character. But in this case I am assured by other people of some reputation that there was a mistake. Let me say, secondly, that I am a little puzzled about the nature of the mistake because you,  Mr Speaker,  in the chair, said that you were not worried about the bells. You were looking at the sandglass. I heard you say this and I am sure that what you said was correct. How did it happen that there was an error with the sandglass? Did anybody fail to turn it up? In that case it would not have shown in that way. I do not know what the malfunction in the sandglass was and I would like to hear more about that. I am not going to hold up the motion but I think this is something that requires a little more explanation than we have yet had. It was not the bells but it was the sandglass that was wrong and I say that by reason of what you,  Mr Speaker,  said from the chair and I am quite certain that what you said from the Chair was correct. 
There is a more serious aspect of this matter which I draw to the attention of the Government. I have looked at standing order 263 in relation to this matter which states: 
Whenever the third reading of a bill by which an alteration of the Constitution is proposed to be made has not been carried by an absolute majority of the House, the bill shall be forthwith laid aside and shall not be revived during the same session. 
That is a standing order of the House and we are now purporting to suspend it. I am willing to vote for that suspension and I shall do so in a moment but I am not clear in my mind as to what the legal consequence of this may be. It may well be that we will not be entitled to put the Bill to a referendum, even though we have voted in the House to do so. Let me just try to draw the attention of the House to the legal point involved. The House is perfectly able to suspend its own Standing Orders. Yes. But can the House do it with retrospective effect in a matter where there is a specific bar? I know that my friend the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  may well know some of the legal precedents in this matter. I am not going to argue them in detail here. But do we have the power retrospectively to suspend a standing order of this character? Has not the standing order already had an effect? It is quite different from other standing orders. This is a specific bar in the Standing Orders and because there is a specific bar it already has had its effect and I am not at all certain about this matter. I am only expressing doubts. I am not a lawyer and I do not have the certainty which a lawyer would have in this matter. I express some doubt that there may be a legal point involved. Even though we suspend Standing Orders - I am going to vote for that suspension in a moment - it may be that the referendum itself would be illegal and open to challenge in the High Court of Australia because of the specific nature of Standing Order 263 which already has had its effect. Although we can certainly suspend a standing order prospectively for anything we do in the future I am not at all certain that the House has the power to suspend retrospectively the operation of a standing order which has already come into effect. This is a most specific bar. It is quite different from nearly all the standing orders of the House and I have doubts - only some little doubts - about the legal effect of what we are now doing. I shall vote for the suspension with those reservations. 
In the few minutes that remain to me tonight I would like to draw the attention of the House to a matter which may seem academic but which I believe to be most serious - perhaps one of the most serious matters that affect us and the peoples of what we call the western civilisation. Talks have been taking place in both Helsinki and Geneva between Russia and the European nations including Great Britain. These talks were directed towards securing a greater freedom of interchange of information among their peoples. The position is now quite clear. We as a free nation give to communist propagandists among us freedom to write and say what they will; they are not subject to any arbitrary laws or censorship. But in Russia it is quite different. There  Mr Solzhenitsyn  and other people find themselves amenable to quite drastic penalties because they have written something which offends the Soviet Union; in fact, they have engaged in what is known as anti-communist propaganda. The balance has got to be held evenly; surely this is of the essence of the thing. 
These talks at Helsinki and Geneva broke down utterly because the communist countries refused to give to the west, if I may use Chat shorthand phrase, any access to their people. The world, as you,  Mr Speaker,  know, is in a dilemma. Owing to the development of new weapons, nuclear or otherwise, either side can entirely destroy the other and neither can protect itself against the other. It is a truism that none of us want humanity to be destroyed. However, this tension exists and, sooner or later, if it is maintained, the unexpected spark will be struck and disaster will follow. The only way we have of removing this tension is by bringing about a change, on one side or the other, in popular thinking. Which side is it to be? We leave our people open to communist propaganda, and that would be a good thing provided there was some fairness and reciprocity. But inside the communist orbit there is no such freedom. We are not allowed to approach their people; we cannot try to make them see the freedoms and advantages of our system. We see fashioned there a totalitarian weapon, a kind of super Hitler, which threatens the peace of the world, and unless some fairness and reciprocity can be achieved I do not know what will happen. We must bring these systems together by inducing a change in the people, whether it be the people of the Soviet orbit or the people of the west. 
A  Mr Sakharov,  a Russian scientist who is close to the centre of things and who has, in fact, been concerned with the production of nuclear weapons- 
When Hercules cleaned out the Augean stables there is no record of his having made a speech in the Assembly afterwards, but it is known that he did say it was a hell of a mess. I forbear quoting the words in the original Greek, in deference to your ruling,  Mr Speaker.  I was interested to hear the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  revealing the inefficiency of the clients whose books he had audited. It does not seem to me that this was entirely ethical on the part of an auditor who seemed to me in this case to be much more concerned with defending his own reputation than in endeavouring to further the interests of the client union. I have no doubt that what he said about the Storemen and Packers Union is right. There may have been a felony - he used the word - in the union; I do not know. I do not know anything about this union, but I do know the kind of things which go on with union accounts, and I am not surprised that he had a hell of ' a mess to clean up. However, I do not want to spend any more time on that matter. 
Another matter that I want to raise has no connection with that at all. There is a rumour current - it seems to be more than a rumour; it seems to be a well-founded story - that very shortly the Hotel Canberra will cease to be an hotel. This is something which I personally regret. The Hotel Canberra has been my home in Canberra for some 25 years, but I suppose that these things must happen. It is said with some reason, I believe, that the lessee is not going to renew his lease and that the hotel will revert to the ownership of the Commonwealth Government. I think that we should consider what is the best possible use to be made of these buildings when that event occurs. I know it has been suggested that the hotel should become a hostel for members of this Parliament. I do not think that this would be altogether a reasonable way in which to use this very important and commodious building. I do not think it is necessary for members of this Parliament to have that kind of accommodation. 
Another suggestion which is current is that the hotel should be made into the headquarters for some department. It has been said that the Department of Foreign Affairs has its eye on the building with a view to using it as a kind of hostel for embryo diplomats. I am not certain that this is the best use to which the building should be put. I think that the pretentions of departments which have been so well fostered by this Government, which is letting the Public Service grow at an inordinate rate, should be kept within reasonable bounds. 
Here we have a very important and comfortable building which should be put to some proper use, and I want to suggest one use to which it may be put. I am not trying to make my suggestion the definitive or only one, but it is something which perhaps might be given adequate consideration. It seems to me that this would be an ideal building to be converted into one of the homes for elderly people which are set up under the Aged Persons Homes Act. I know that the Government is trying to taper off this Act and is not altogether in sympathy with the idea that independent and voluntary organisations should take part in this activity of housing elderly people and would prefer to see this kind of thing brought within the compass of the department. This is not what I am suggesting. I am suggesting that the building should be a building for aged people, as other aged persons homes are. 
In the past in Canberra we have not had very much need for these homes because the people who live in Canberra, very largely have come here fairly recently and many of them have not reached the age of retirement. But that situation is rapidly changing. A number of people who came to Canberra in the 1950s and 1960s are now reaching retiring age. Even among the younger people there are many who came from Melbourne or Sydney and who would be anxious to having living adjacent to them here in Canberra their parents or elderly relatives. I believe that in Canberra there is a call for a building such as the Hotel Canberra for that purpose. I speak as a former Minister who has had some considerable experience with aged persons homes, and it seems to me that the buildings of the Hotel Canberra would be quite suitable for this purpose with only very moderate modifications. 
There are about 120 rooms in the hotel. Each one of them has its own separate bathroom, and this I think is essential for elderly people. If they are living in hostel-type accommodation for which I would think the present buildings in the Hotel Canberra would be eminently suitable, they could live in their separate rooms and from the hotel facilities have meals in common and the other services which have to be provided for elderly people who are not quite capable of looking after themselves completely independently in a separate flat but who do not need to have the full care of a nursing home. It is the hostel accommodation which is particularly needed and for which the Hotel Canberra accommodation is particularly suited. 
About 75 per cent of the hotel's rooms are on the ground floor, and this is important. The number of steps and so on that would have to be negotiated are of the absolute minimum, and this is important for elderly people. The 2 courtyards - one on either side of the hotel - are ideal for elderly people to sit in. It is important that elderly people should have some kind of sheltered garden space where they can sit and enjoy themseves in the evening of their lives. There are verandahs round the gardens. Perhaps some of them could be closed in, but they require very little modification. The services are all there. The rooms are all heated. The furniture is there. It is a walk in walk out situation. 
I suggest to the Government that when it looks at this matter it should not regard the interests of members of Parliament as of top  priority and it should not regard the interests even of departmental officers as of top priority, but it should look at the needs of the elderly people. In the Hotel Canberra the Government has a building which, in my view - and I speak as a Minister who has had some experience in these matters - could very easily be adapted for hostel accommodation. 
About 120. It would cost about $ 1.25m to construct this building, quite apart from the cost of the land. It is an ample site. Behind the hotel are facilities which could easily be made into a day centre for the elderly people of Canberra. There is a site where later on a nursing home could be built for those who become more advanced in years and are less capable of looking after themselves. It seems to me that the Hotel Canberra, with its location, is an almost ideal setup which can be afforded virtually without drawing on additional resources. Nearly everything is there and this could be done without its having any inflationary effect at all on the economy. Here is an opportunity. If the hotel becomes  delicensed,  which I would regret from my own point of view, here is an opportunity to give 120 people a comfortable old age. 
I feel that perhaps people will get a wrong impression from what the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Kerin)  has just said. He has slurred over all the difficulties, the growing shortages, inflation and a lot of things which are bringing disturbance to the Australian community and which perhaps will be visited on the head of this Government as soon as the people get a chance to show the Government what they think of ft. I am not intending to speak at first on that. I wish to talk about something which I think is even more important - our external relations and our external position. Whatever our difficulties Australia, looking at it over the last ten or fifteen years, has made more progress than practically any country and enjoys still a higher standard of living than practically any country. In spite of what this Government has done our standards are still very high. They would be the envy of most people and we could be envied. Our situation is, perhaps, in this area not as safe as people would like to think. If a government cuts down on our security, whether through disarming our defence forces or through undertaking an unwise foreign policy, the good things which we have and most of which we still have in spite of this Government can all be put at jeopardy. 
I wish to start with a very simple instance and to remind the House of a few facts and what that implication comes up to. I think it was on 20 December last the Chinese communist government launched an attack on the islands in the China Sea which had been occupied by South Vietnam. It was a small affair. I think only a couple of hundred people were killed, but it was an attack - hostilities. Both countries, and indeed other countries, laid claim to these disputed islands. 
I am not going to try to judge as to the 
Tightness  or the wrongness of those claims. My own view is that probably South Vietnam had the best claim but China  did  put forward a colourable claim and I think the Philippines also put through a colourable claim. In those circumstances when armed aggression had occurred there was only one thing to do and that was to refer it to the Security Council and to the United Nations for appropriate determination. 
This Government has put a lot of faith on the United Nations. It has gone round saying: The United Nations will protect us. We need nothing more'. Yet, when this occurred the United Nations  did  not intervene. It was not because South Vietnam did not refer it to the Security Council. It did so, I believe, the day of the attack and again four or five days later. When  it found  that Communist China, which is on the Security Council with the power of veto, was going to exercise that power it wrote a pathetic  note  to the  President  of the Security Council. I believe the note is dated 24 January. I will read some of it. It states: 
We made that request- 
That is, for the Security Council to intervene -  in the earnest hope that the Security Council would take a constructive approach to the problem and take adequate measures to remedy the situation. 
However, the permanent delegate of the People's Republic of China to the United Nations Security Council had subsequently issued a thoroughly negative statement, presenting a distorted version of the facts and clinging to the false claims of Chinese sovereighty over the Hoang-Sa (Paracels) and Truong-Sa (Spratley) archipelagoes. 
Since the People's Republic of China is apermanent member of the Security Council and has veto power, this leaves little hope for any constructiva debate or positive action. 
Therefore, I wish to inform you that all my communications to the Security Council are for the purpose of drawing the attention of the Council to the grave situation existing in the South-East Asia region as a result of China's encroachment on the Republic of Vietnam's territory. 
It belongs to the Security Council and its members to fulfil their responsibilities and to decide on what is to be done to correct that situation. 
That is an appeal for the Security Council to take action. I am not saying at this stage that I think the claim of South Vietnam is beyond question. I think it is stronger than the claim of Communist China to these islands but neither is beyond question. What is beyond question is that this was a proper matter for the United Nations to take a hand in to preserve the peace of the area. But what happened? It did nothing. The big bullies got away with it. The small country, South Vietnam, was victimised and pushed aside. It is a small country whose population is not very much greater than that of Australia. Apparently it does not count for much in the councils of the world. Australia has a representative on that Security Council but we did nothing. Why did we not refer the matter to the Security Council and make certain that it was discussed by the Security Council? If the bullies in Communist China want to use their veto on the Security Council to paralyse the Security Council, at least let them be exposed for what they are. But Australia did nothing. We acquiesced. 
This means in effect that the whole of the foundations of the Government's foreign policy are shown to be non-existent. The Government has been alienating all our friends in this area. It has positively encouraged isolationism in the United States. It has aligned itself with all the forces of isolationism in the United States. Even today with the Indian Ocean Diego Carcia proposal, it aligns itself with the isolationists. It says: 'You must do nothing'. This would be a conceivable policy would it not, if we could rely on the United Nations? In the past the Government has sought to justify its policy by saying: 'It's all right, boys; the United Nations will look after us'. When, in this area, its power is first tested, the United Nations is paralysed by the fear of a Chinese veto. The bully gets away with it and the Australian Government simply crayfishes away from the whole situation. If the United Nations is powerless to resolve the dispute over the Paracels, do honourable members think it is in a position to offer security to Australia? This shows that the whole of the Government's foreign policy is without foundation, and that is a terrible and ominous situation that Australia now has to face. 
Let us not think that the matter stops at the Paracels. The Spratly Islands are next on the Communist Chinese agenda. They have said so themselves. I checked this with two or three sources. I looked at the old maps which were produced, I think, as long ago as 1964. I brought my knowledge up to date by contacting the Communist Chinese Embassy in Canberra to find out the extent of China's claims. Its claims in the area go right down to the Spratly Islands and the Tseng-mu Reef, which is only a few miles from the Borneo coast. A few moments ago members on the Government side wanted to laugh off the thrust southwards by Communist China. It is already an acknowledged thrust halfway from Peking to Australia. I repeat that this thrust is already half way and Government supporters want to laugh it off and say it does not matter. This is the extent of the betrayal of Australia in which the Government is engaged. This is the extent of the danger to Australia by allowing this present Government to remain in office. It has invoked, for the protection of Australia, a system of relying on the United Nations which is proved to be worthless, and which the Government acknowledges to be worthless. The Government has an Australian representative on the Security Council in New York but he received  in,  instructions to act. He took no action. The Government knows in its heart that the whole of its foreign policy is phoney. 
Making these things known is really more important than trying to take a rise out of the Government. That is not what we are thinking of. What we are thinking of at the present moment is that if this Government is allowed to remain in office and to persist in its present courses, the security of the Australian people is vastly endangered. This is an accusation which now stands on the record. People say that the matter of the Paracels is a little thing and ask what do a few islands matter. It is not a little thing because what is in question is the power and the willingness of the United Nations to act. This Government has put Australia on the Une, relying only on the United Nations. When it comes to action the United Nations is not only shown to be powerless but is acknowledged by this Government to be powerless. 
When the Prime Minister on one of his peregrinations a few weeks ago was in the area a number of us sent to him a telegram asking him, while he was in the area, to raise this matter, to find out and to report to Australia what was to be done in regard to it to bring the matter before the United Nations. There was dead silence. There was no result, no reply. The Prime Minister wants to sweep Australia under the carpet. He is more concerned with the security of his own Government than he is concerned with the security of Australia. A man like this should not be allowed to remain in power and office. 
I have spoken very briefly about the foreign situation. I want to say that in my view this more than anything else, is important for Australia. The Government has backed the forces of isolationism in Britain and in the United States. It has incited them to abandon us. This is what it has done. It has said: 'It is all right, the United Nations will look after us. We put our trust in international law'. How much international law was applied in regard to the Paracel Islands? None at all. I do not for one moment say that international law would give the verdict to this side or that side. But what I do say is that this is a matter in which there is a case perhaps on both sides. Force was used and a few hundred men killed, but there is more to come because the next leg southward will be towards Borneo. The claim has been made. They are only waiting until things die down. There is more to come. But there is nothing from the United Nations and nothing from this Government. 
Let me turn from those vital matters to a matter which I believe to be important - perhaps not so important as those matters but still very important indeed - that is, the degree of inflation which exists in the Australian community. There are many causes for this, but let me try to sort out what I think is the main cause, one which is not yet receiving sufficient attention. Inflation comes about basically through too much money chasing too few goods. We know that this is being exacerbated because of the shortages which are occuring throughout the community. 
We cannot get nails; we cannot get wire netting, galvanised wire or a refrigerator. There are shortages everywhere. Maybe it is only for a week or two, but while they occur the efficiency of the whole productive process is held up. Because builders cannot get building supplies they sit idle on the site; they can do nothing else. As a result costs go up and fewer houses are produced. When there is a strike people cannot get to their place of work. The whole productive machinery is spragged. This means that fewer goods are produced in the equation. There is too much money chasing too few goods. If we could only get the productive process going again we could produce the goods, we could get rid of the shortages and we would be beating the inflation. 
The inflation is feeding on the shortages which are caused mainly by industrial disrup tion which this Government supports. The Government is the creature of the trade union movement and it does not dare to stand up against the trade union movement even when it knows that the trade union movement is wrong. The disruptionists know that they have a great and powerful friend here in Canberra when it comes to a showdown and that the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnston)  or the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  will get up and say: 'You know, the strikers are really right and it is the people who are exploiting the workers who are wrong.' Because of this, disruption is increased and shortages occur. 
The role of industrial disruption and the role of shortages in the whole inflationary process have been very much underestimated. I know that this is not the whole of the story but I believe that in our present situation it is probably the greater part of the story. If only we could get the industrial machine going again. If only we could get rid of the senseless strikes which the men do not want. In many cases they are intimidated by their union officials into participating in a strike of which they do not approve. If only we could get rid of these strikes and this disruption the problem of inflation would become a manageable one again. It would not entirely disappear, sure, but a great deal of the pressures would come off and a great deal of the heat would be reduced. 
I have developed 2 themes. Funnily enough, both are concerned with the movement of our communist enemies, whether they are overseas or in Australia and working against Australia, or in the unions working against their own members and betraying their own union members. They are not trying to look after the interests of their members. A communist official is there in order to cause disruption, and because he sometimes succeeds in causing disruption he adds to inflation, he adds to the pressures on the economy and perhaps, when that happens, he is not altogether displeased. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The honourable gentleman's time has expired. 
I ask: Does the Prime Minister recollect that in the policy speech on which his Party obtained Government he gave on unequivocal pledge to abolish the means test entirely in the lifetime of the present Parliament? To refresh his mind may I be permitted to quote his exact words? The Prime 
Minister said: 'The means test will be abolished within the life of the next Parliament'. That was said before the election. Has the Prime Minister's attention .been drawn to evidently inspired leaks from semi-official sources to the effect that the means test should be retained - the type of leaks which we have grown accustomed to associating with the coming shift in Government policy? Does he intend to go back on his unequivocal promise to abolish the means test entirely within the life of the present Parliament? Will the Prime Minister give an unqualified assurance that this pledge will be honoured without any concurrent financial sleight of hand? Will he permit me to assure him that we on this side of the House will endeavour to keep him honest in this matter? 
The Minister for Secondary Industry  (Mr Enderby),  who has just been sat down, was never the most convincing of speakers. But I do not think we can blame him tonight because even Demosthenes would have found it difficult to add plausibility to the theme that the Minister has given us. He wanted to tell us that the socialist government was the friend of free enterprise. You can put a lot of things over the electors but I do not think anybody will believe that statement. It may be that the Governnent can offer baits but it offers baits always with the worst purposes and with the destruction of free enterprise in mind. Members of this Government are socialists. 
I do not want to labour what the Minister for Secondary Industry has said. I point out, however, that the Labor Government received a great inheritance from its predecessors. It has squandered that inheritance. It claims that it inherited the seeds of inflation. How is it that during the whole term of the Labor Government so far the pace of inflation has been accelerated? I believe that when we look back on this period we will worry about the way in which our surplus of foreign trade of current account, the really vital figure, has been dissipated. This will be an economic crime, one of the many crimes, which will be laid at the door of the Labor Government. I will not waste much time on the speech of the Minister for Secondary Industry. After all, he is rather small potatoes and I would rather speak of something which is of more consequence. 
I was a little disappointed and dismayed today when I asked the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  a question about the abolition of the means test that he did not answer less equivocally. What he said sounded all right but he just stopped short of full commitment. I do not think this is good enough. I think that we do require something more from him because he is known to be a tricky and untrustworthy person. He is known to say things deceptively. It is very difficult sometimes to hold him to his word. I do hope that in this question of the means test we will be able to hold him to his word and to see that the means test is abolished in the life of mis Parliament. I am sure that honourable members on this side of the House will, as I said this morning, try to keep him honest in that regard even if he has some doubts himself. 
What I wanted to speak about tonight was another comment made by the Prime Minister which seemed artless enough at the time but which may have a hidden sting, a hidden meaning and a hidden motive behind it. I quote - I will use the official text, the Prime Minister's own text - what the Prime Minister said in the course of his Press conference on 12 March, that is, last Tuesday. I will quote exactly what the Prime Minister said: He stated: 
The Senate election doesn't have to be held until the end of June because the senators who will be elected will take office on 1 July. Ordinarily Senate elections, like 'House of Representatives elections, are held on Saturdays. So, accordingly, it would be possible to have the Senate election on the last Saturday in June. 
That is, on 29 June. The Prime Minister said those words which I have quoted. They were meant, I think, to seem artless and to be of no real significance. But I ask the House and the country to consider the possible consequences of these words because the Constitu tional consequences are somewhat extraordinary. Everybody knows that the Government wants to get control of the Senate, even if it is only for a few weeks. If the Government can control the Senate for a few weeks it can pass electoral legislation involving redistribution schemes which will make it impossible for the Opposition to get the Labor Party out of the House of Representatives, even though - and I am sure there is no doubt about it - the people reject the Labor Party by a large majority. 
What the Labor Party needs for its gerrymander, what it needs for its schemes, is to gain control of the Senate even if it is only for a couple of weeks. If it should control the Senate for a couple of weeks the country would have no protection. The vital nature of the Senate election is, of course, apparent. Everybody who is against socialism wants to stop the Government, and only the Senate stands between us and socialism. But let us consider what would happen if the election for the Senate were held on 29 June. Everybody is aware that it takes three or four weeks to finalise the counting of votes in a Senate election. So, for three or four weeks we would have a Senate comprising 30 senators. 
Ah ! My honourable friend from Robertson says 'Too many'. Of course, from his point of view he is entirely right because he, like every other member of the Government, is pledged to the abolition of the Senate as soon as they can find a way of stabbing it in the back - and this may be the way. The Senate is a House with continuing existence. It would be operative even if there were only 30 senators in place of the present 60 senators. Under section 22 of the Constitution, which can be altered, as I think it has been by Senate Standing Orders, onethird of the. total number of senators shall be necessary to constitute a meeting of the Senate. But that is something which may not be as much of a protection as honourable members may think. The Senate would be constituted with 30 members. Now, what happens with those 30 members? Of the continuing senators fourteen belong to the Labor Party; there are 2 independent senators -  Senator Negus  and  Senator Townley  - and in examining the results of the division in the Senate in the past year I see that  Senator Negus  almost always votes with the Labor Party. So, the Government would have its 15 senators and it would be very near to having a majority. There would be 15 Labor Party senators and only one more needed to swing the vote. 
Well , the Labor Party might gain a majority of one through the illness of one of the Opposition senators. He might come about through some chance. But to have a country turning on the help of one person is not too happy a state of affairs. On construing sections 135 and 141 of the Commonwealth Electoral Act it would appear to me that new senators will be elected one by one with the declaration of the poll. So this perhaps is where that extra senator is going to come from. 
Well, I have been complimented by my friend from the Government side of the House who said that only I would think of it. I am afraid it may be that that artful dodger, the Prime Minister, has thought of it already. He is, as you know, an untrustworthy person, a person whose word cannot be relied on and a man who gets up to every kind of trick. The Labor Party does get up to every kind of constitutional trick. What I am saying is that we should not give the Labor Party a chance to do this. 
Ah, you did not need teaching, I can assure you, judging from the sliding ballot box panels and the whole jiggery pokery with which the whole Labor machinery is infected. Honourable members opposite know what political trickery is. When one looks at this Act, and when one puts it in parallel with the Constitution, one can see that this is where those extra senators could come from. 
I suppose that the question of who is going to be elected first and in which State is really a matter which is very much under the control of the electoral machinery. But it is a matter of chance a little bit, if the electoral machinery is honest. That being so, we do not want to put the future of Australia to the mercy of chance. I do not think the Prime Minister has much chance of getting a working majority among the 60 senators after the election. I think that the Senate election will go against him significantly. But if he can just get this half Senate operative with a few senators coming in by chance from outside he may just for a little while be able to achieve the majority he wants in the Senate. But once he gets that majority, even if it is only for a day or a week, he will be able to bung through the Bills that he wants to bung through and in particular he will be able to gerrymander the electorates and to see that no government other than a Labor Government ever sits in this House, whatever the people might think. 
I have quoted the Prime Minister's words. I have not gone beyond them. I have just tried to show to the House what the rather queer unforseen constitutional consequences of this could be. I am by no means certain that they were not foreseen by the Prime Minister. When he comes in in this artless way of his and tries to get something through on the run, as it were, giving some good kind of excuse for it, finding some pretext for it, one always suspects what his real motive could be. In this case the artful dodger may have a point. 
Well,  Sir, I  refer to the Prime Minister in his prime ministerial capacity. If I could describe him as an artful dodger - I am referring to him as the Prime Minister. 
Well,  Sir, that  would be the last thing I would want. I think that I am entitled to say that most of the country distrusts the Prime Minister. He is too slick altogether. He is too smooth altogether. Sometimes when he is putting forward in this artless way the possibility that for some other motive he might have the elections postponed until 29 June - this is what he said himself - one looks to the possible constitutional consequences. 
Sections 7 to 23 of the Constitution deal with the Senate and give that body continuing life and make a Senate of 30 or 40 members an operable house. Looking at section 135 (5) (c) and section 141 (1) of the Commonwealth Electoral Act, it seems to me that senators can be declared elected one by one. 
This would give, as my honourable friend from the Government said, the extra senator or senators to allow the process to work. It will be on the fifth seat in each State that the Senate election will really be determined and it is on those fifth seats that we will be making up our leeway on the continuing 30 senators who will not be retiring this year. Those seats will be the last ones declared. So the Prime Minister, if he gets his way, might have those three or four weeks in which to put his schemes through. It would be imprudent to allow him to do so. How is he to be stopped? I think that this can be done in 2 ways. The first is the way of public opinion. Now that I have put this on the line it may be that even the Prime Minister will not be brazen enough to act in this way. Never before has an election of the Senate been concluded before the retiring senators have left their places in the Senate. Such a move would be unprecedented. Now that I have exposed the constitutional possibilities which are inherent in this situation it may be that even the Prime Minister would not be brazen enough to take this course. 
There is another possibility, and on this I have some constitutional doubts. Section 9 of the Constitution states: 
The Parliament of a State may make laws for determining the times and places of elections of senators for the State. 
Section 12 of the Constitution states: 
The Governor of any State may cause writs to be issued for elections of senators for the State. 
I am not absolutely certain of the constitutional position here. I know that there are some doubts but it seems to me that it is probable that if the Prime Minister does the unthinkable and, as he has threatened in his Press conference, if he delays the Senate election until 29 June I think it will be possible for a State to step in and see that an election is held at an earlier date so that the senators for that State will be ready to take their places in the Senate on 1 July when the other senators go out. 
I return to the main theme. The main theme is the importance of seeing that the Government never gets, even for a few weeks, a majority in the Senate. Only the Senate stands between Australian and socialisation. In this House we have seen important Bills - this has never happened before - guillotined through without Committee debate. 
I repeat that nothing like this has ever happened in Australia's history. This House has not been allowed by die Government to discuss the details of important vital legislation. That has had to be done in the Senate. I say: Thank God for the Senate, because if it were not for the Senate the jackboots of this Government would be treading all over the face of Australia. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Undoubtedly the main impact of this Bill is related to pension rates. After the luncheon adjournment I hope to deal with that in more detail. At present I refer to a couple of matters which may seem peripheral although I think they are important. I listened with attention to what the honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson)  said about the inadequate time for debating this Bill. AH honourable members know that this Bill must be passed quickly and the Opposition certainly will facilitate its speedy passage. The honourable member for Perth thought that this situation could be cured if when a Bill like this is introduced the debate should be allowed to continue but the pension increase should be paid retrospectively. I am not altogether in favour of that procedure partly because of administrative difficulties, partly because the pensioner wants to get this cash because he is not always in a position to continue until he receives the increased pension and it is better for him to have it in money straight away, and partly because of the necessity to keep within reasonable bounds the debate in this House on a matter concerning the pension rate. I appreciate the point the honourable member made but I think that possibly there is a better solution to the problem. It might be better to bring in a separate Bill containing only one clause - a clause relating to the pension rate - and keeping the other matters for a different Bill. I think it essential that we should have an opportunity of discussing those other matters in greater detail. I am with the honourable member for Perth in his objection but I think that the better cure probably is to confine Bills of this character in the future to the one matter of the pension rate and to introduce concurrently other Bills dealing with administrative and other questions which should be considered in greater detail. 
I think it is high time the Parliament considered the Social Services Act as a whole and had it redrafted. When I was Minister it was one of my regrets that I was unable to persuade my colleagues to follow this course. I felt that the Act that I was administering was outmoded in many respects. It was confused and complex. After all, this is an Act relating to pensioners. If honourable members find it difficult to follow the convolutions of the Act how can they expect a pensioner to find out his rights or obligations under the Act? I would favour rewriting the Act in much simpler language and in a much simpler form. I believe this can be done as soon as we can get rid of the means test for at least the people over 65 years of age. I hope the Government will keep to its promise to do this within the life of this present Parliament. But that is by way of aside. 
I should like to agree with what was said by the honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson)  and to go a little bit beyond him to say that I think the whole Act should be rewritten. As the Minister for Social Services I endeavoured to do this. It is one of my regrets that I was unable to persuade my colleagues to take this course. I am not suggesting that in this rewriting we should change the substance of the Act. Changes of the substance of the Act are a different matter altogether. I am not trying to suggest that there should not be changes in substance. But I would hope that quite apart from those changes in substance the Act would be put into some more reasonable form. 
Sitting suspended from 1.2 to 2.15 p.m. 
The main impact of this Bill is, of course, on the pension rate. Before I deal with that, let me deal with one other aspect - not minor but perhaps of lesser importance - that of unemployment benefits. The rates of unemployment benefits are being increased and my Party is supporting that increase. I am a little disturbed at the unemployment situation as it develops. While there is an overall shortage of labour there also seems to be developing a certain amount of structural unemployment and the ratio of  unemployment benefits to registered unemployed is abnormally high. I will not have an opportunity to analyse this aspect at present but I hope to do so in the future. What is happening by reason of the great economic disturbances this Government has caused is that when work opportunity is offered, perhaps in fields which do not fit those who are registered for employment, the registered unemployed are unable to take these jobs or do not want to take them because they feel they are unsuited. 
I also mention the great impact of these unemployment benefits upon the Aboriginal community. The Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  was generous enough to say something in regard to this matter in the past. I will not go over it. I have never thought that Aborigines should in any way have less than anybody else in the community, but what I have advocated and will continue to advocate is that unemployment benefits should he kept out of the areas where Aboriginals live by the simple expedient of making jobs available at the point where the Aborigines are. This should take precedence of giving unemployment benefits. I have said in the past that unemployment benefits for Aboriginals are like measles; it is not something which kills many European people, but when loosed on an Aboriginal community it can have a large amount of fatality associated with it. Our community, with some exceptions - hippies and so on about whom the Minister has spoken - can stand up to unemployment benefits. It does not suffer the devastating effects that the Aboriginals might suffer. I say, in the interests of the Aboriginal people of the north particularly, that unemployment benefits must be kept out of these areas, not by penalising them, but by making certain that work is available for the Aboriginals at the places where they live. I would not advocate bringing Aboriginals into Darwin or any other centre in order to give them employment opportunities. Employment opportunities should be made available where they live. 
Let me come to what I believe to be the main issue of the Bill, the raising of the pension rate and the associated benefits. We welcome this, but I point out to the House that the Government is not really living up to its promises. This has come about because of the immense rate of inflation which has been generated by certain factors which we are not going to talk about today. This immense rate of inflation is a fact of life. I will not go into the causes, with which everybody has to deal. Because of inflation rises in the pension rate have become inevitable and desirable. They must cope with the situation. Earlier on the Government was talking about raising pensions by $1.50 every 6 months until they reached a certain level. It has become obvious that since that time the rate of inflation is such that by raising the pension rate $1.50 every 6 months not only will the pension rates never reach the desired level but they will continue to fall further behind it. 
I turn now to the figures. Let me point out to the House that when we refer to the December quarter price level we are really referring to the level of prices of 15 November. The December quarter price level is the price averaged over that quarter. The figure that is published for the December quarter is most nearly related to the mid-point of that quarter, 15 November. The same is true of average male weekly earnings. The figure published for the December quarter - whether or not it is seasonally adjusted - relates to the midpoint of that quarter. If one looks not at any theoretical figures but at the actual figures at the moment which affect the housewife who is going into the supermarket or the corner store to buy her goods, one comes up with some figures which are quite at variance with those which the Government has been citing. 
Let me look first at the real value of the standard rate pension. I am going to ask in a moment - I spoke to the Minister about this - for permission to incorporate in Hansard 2 little tables which show the real value of the pension. I am going to look at the purchasing power of the December quarter figure when the consumer price index, commonly abbreviated to CPI, was 144.6. That is the latest published figure. I will refer to the purchasing power of the pension as expressed in those prices. In mid-November 1972, which was just about the date of the last election, the pension rate was $20 and the appropriate CPI for that date was 127.7. At current prices the November 1972 pension which we left for this Government would have a purchasing power of $22.64. That is the purchasing power at today's prices of the pension of S20. I move on a year to 15 November 1973 when the pension rate was $23 and the CPI appropriate to that date was 144.6. The purchasing power in terms of those prices was $23. Now we move on to 15 March 1974, 4 months later. The pension is still $23 but the CPI has risen. 
There is no actual published figure but it can reasonably be said that the CPI would be about 151.0. The purchasing power of the pension as at 15 March last in terms of the same prices was $22. That means that between November 1972 and November 1973 the real purchasing power of the pension rose - it is true - by some 36c. It is just about stability, but it was a little rise. 
Today the real purchasing power of the pension is down to $22, in other words 64c below the figure of 15 November 1972. Pensioners are complaining because their pension does not buy as much as it did. The Government says that it has made these big increases in real value. This simply is not true. The Government - I won't say it has faked the figures - has misquoted figures because it has always quoted its prices in retard. The Government talks about the December quarter and it applies the December quarter figures to the present pension. But in point of fact the December quarter figures relate to 15 November which was 4 months ago. In those 4 months there has been one hell of a shift in prices. So let us get it straight and be accurate about it. The real value of the pension fell by about 64c between 15 November 1972 when the previous Government went out of office and 15 March 1974, a week or so ago. This is the fact and it had better be realised. The pensioners realise it. They know what is happening to them. 
Let us take the other measure that the Government uses - the standard rate of pension as a percentage of average weekly male earnings. The pension rates are the same. But, again, the average weekly male earnings should be related to the mid-point of the quarter. When one does this one comes up with these results: On 15 November 1972 the pension had a real value of 20 per cent of average weekly male . earnings, on 15 December 1973 the percentage was 20 per cent - unchanged - and on 15 March 1974 t was 19.2 per cent - down, not up. It is perfectly true that the Government will, as it should, correct this position by the increases which are incorporated in this Bill. But that will not be enough because the inflation is still going on. If it goes on at the present rate, by September or October next, when the next 6-monthly rise is due, the pensioners will be worse off than ever. The donkey is chasing its tail. I ask leave to have a table showing the real value of the standard rate pension since 15 November 1972 incorporated in Hansard. 
 Mr 
Deputy Speaker, I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the honourable member for 
Mackellar from immediately moving the following motion: 
That the tape record of the right honourable the Leader of the Opposition's request to make a statement on the forthcoming referendums be made available to all broadcasting stations for rebroadcast. 
It is not often that I remind the House of something that I said in a previous session. I propose to do that tonight. 
Everybody knows that the Senate is the sole bulwark against socialisation for Australia. If it were not for the Senate, the brutal majority in this House would be able to carry through the extreme measures of socialisation which are so dear to its heart. The Senate is vital to Australia, and it is vital that we should have in the Senate a majority which will repress the extremism of the Labor Caucus which controls this House. 
As you know,  Mr Speaker,  there is to be a Senate election on 18 May and there will still be half the Senate remaining in office. It is vital that that half should not be disturbed. Something that happened today has disturbed it. A casual vacancy has been created in the Senate through the resignation of  Senator Gair.  Let me quote what I said on 3 May 1973 in this House: 
Casual vacancies can occur in. . 2 ways - either through the death or resignation of a senator or through the engineered resignation of a senator. It could he vital if the Labor Party could engineer, before the next Senate election, a casual vacancy for a long term non-Labor senator for either Queensland or Western Australia, which are the 2 vital States because these are the States where with 5 vacancies the split would be likely to be 3 to 2 against Labor, but with 6 vacancies the split would be likely to be 3 all. I do not know what will happen but I am ready to bet that the Labor Party will be making desperate efforts to engineer casual vacancies among the long term non-Labor Party senators for those 2 States. 
Thank you,  Sir. At  that point the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh)  said: 
I rise on a point of order. The honourable member is suggesting that members of the Senate could be corrupted. 
I replied: 
Let me say, so I may put the honourable member's mind at rest, that I am not saying that 'honourable senators could be corrupted. In my view they will withstand the offers of corruption that will be made to them. I believe that they are honourable men who will withstand these offers which will undoubtedly be made to them. I am sure that the long term senators from Queensland and Western Australia will be the targets of an attempt to corrupt by the Labor Party, but I feel equally that they will resist these temptations. 
I was wrong. I went on to say: 
I may differ from my honourable friend opposite on this, but I do not believe that these honourable senators are dishonourable men. I do not believe that they would takethe bait but it is essential, for the Labor Party plan to get control of the Senate, to get those 31 votes and it will not scruple to employ any such device for this purpose. 
This is what has happened and I was wrong, because one of the long term senators from Queensland was not an honourable man and he has taken the bait. 
-I bow to your ruling,  Sir. 
I bow to your ruling,  Mr Speaker,  and I will not proceed in that manner. He will not be a senator for long, and then I can say what I want to say. 
Of course  1  will,  Mr Speaker.  You did not rise on this occasion. The falsifier of Hansard knows that. 
I will follow your guidance,  Sir. I  will endeavour to do so.  1  am sorry that the Government wants to waste my time. What  I  forecast on  3  May has happened. [ was wrong only in that I thought that no senator would take the bait. I speak about the Government now and not about the senator. From the point of view of the Government, this is one of the most shameful things that any government has ever done. It has endeavoured to disenfranchise the people of Queensand at the forthcoming election, because the split must be  3-3  and they will not be able to express their preferences for the Government or the Opposition by a split of  3-2  which is possible if there is an uneven number of senators to be elected. This is a move by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  to dodge the latest mandate of the people. On  18  May the people will have a chance of voting. Because the Prime Minister, by these unworthy manoeuvres, will be able to affect the number of continuing senators in the Senate the people of Australia will not have a chance of making their vote fully effective in the Senate because the people of Queensland will be virtually disenfranchised. 
I think this throws a lurid light upon the : character of the Prime Minister and the char- acter of the Government which he leads. The tact that they would stoop to this kind of corruption - I am not speaking of the senator now but of the Government - shows this. It is one of the most corrupt and shameful things hat any government has ever done. I know perfectly well that many honourable members opposite are ashamed of what their leader has done and want to disown him but they have not quite got the guts to do so. Once again the Prime Minister has shown himself to be the artful dodger of Australian politics. 
Yes, I will,  Mr Speaker:  "Because of your ruling I will not refer to the Prime Minister, as I have done previously, as a plausible rogue. I would not use those words. 
Yes,  Sir. The  Prime Minister is the most honourable of men. So are they all honourable men. One cannot go further than .that. There is no need for me to do so because the facts speak for themselves. 
Yes the manoeuvre stinks. Those are the words that the honourable member for Angas suggests to me and I am afraid they are very apposite words. The whole manoeuvre stinks. It is typical of the Prime Minister and typical of the Government. 
It is a pleasure - indeed I am afraid a pleasure which comes to me with diminishing frequency these days - to be able to support without reservations a Bill which the Government has introduced. Indeed, I think I can almost go further than that. I would say that the Opposition, when it was in government, should have moved along lines such as those followed in the introduction of this legislation, and I think that the Government is to be congratulated. I hope that when this Institute is set up - I am now about to make some remarks which I hope will be helpful and which are certainly not meant to be critical in any sense - it will pay sufficient attention to the simplification of the phraseology of the Bills which come into this House. I know that it is important to be precise and that it is a measure of failure in drafting laws when a court either upsets a pre-conceived idea of what a Bill means or finds itself in doubt as to what an Act means. For that reason I know that precision does not always go hand in hand with simplification, but I hope it will not be forgotten. 
I notice that the Institute is to help drafting in other countries. I commend that idea, but I think we should all keep in mind that practices outside Australia may not be quite the same as those here. Just as the Westminster style of democracy may not always be the most immediately suitable for all countries, so perhaps the Australian style of drafting may not always be the most suitable system of law in other countries. I am sure that valuable work can be done, but I hope that the differences between Australia and other countries will not be entirely forgotten. 
I turn now to the points which concern us particularly as a Commonwealth Parliament. I note with regret - I speak not only of the present Government but 'also of previous governments - how much the work of this House has been impeded in the past by the fact that there was a bottleneck in drafting. The Bills were not always ready. I do not mean to criticise the staff of the Office of the Parliamentary Counsel. They have worked tremendously hard but their efforts have sometimes been inadequate to meet the situation because the numbers of trained people has not been sufficient to cope with the inflow of Bills and regulations. This in itself has been a reproach and I feel that over the years we did not do enough to train competent draftsmen. The establishment of this Institute acknowledges the fact that draftsmen are not born; they have to be made, their job is a skilled job and training is necessary. There was always a bottleneck in the Parliamentary Counsel's office. That bottleneck could never have been cleared immediately because trained people were not available and I think that whatever was offered would have been insufficient to attract them. It may be that salaries were inadequate but there could have been no immediate relief whatever salaries had been offered, because people had to be trained. It is for this reason particularly that I commend the idea behind an institute such as this. However, the situation did improve somewhat in recent years.  Mr Tom  Hughes was particularly and rightly commended for what he did as Attorney-General to try to break that bottleneck. But action was started too late in the life of the last Government and not enough could be achieved before it went out of office. This next step is one which I think we all should support. 
May I make one practical suggestion? One of the ways in which draftsmen could be trained - not necessarily at this Institute but perhaps by way of a kind of postgraduate course conducted by this Institute - is by engaging them on the consolidation of amending Acts. It has been a standing reproach to this Parliament over many years that whenever a Bill is passed that amends a principal Act the consolidation of that Bill and that Act is not immediately available. Very often one finds when one goes to the Bills and Papers Office and asks for an 
Act that one gets a sheaf of amending Acts that have never been consolidated. It should be a general rule whenever an amending Act is passed for the consolidated Act to be available within a couple of weeks. 
I remember very well when the Hansard report used to come out weeks after the debates took place and how we were told that it would be impossible to get a daily Hansard; yet it has been possible to do so. We now have a daily Hansard which runs automatically, which runs very commendably and which I think honourable members all regard as being essential to the proper discharge of their functions. Let us think back only a few years to the time when we did not have a daily Hansard. I put the parallel position with regard to legislation. We do not have the consolidated Acts when we pass an amending Act through this Parliament. We regard it as being the normal procedure to have to wait a long time to get a consolidated Act yet that is something which should be automatic. If a consolidated Act is not available within a couple of weeks there should be a row. 
I know that at present we lack the trained draftsmen for this to be done, but it is not a major drafting exercise. It does require skill. This is where I come to the point I wish to make. It seems to me that we should be taking on, perhaps from this Institute, draftsmen for training first in the mechanical job of consolidating the Acts and of ensuring that the consolidated Acts are available within certainly not more than a couple of weeks. I press this point. I have pressed it upon preceding governments without any success. To me it is a standing reproach to our whole system of parliamentary government that whenever an amending Bill is passed by this House the consolidated Act is not available almost immediately but that one has to wade through piles and piles of papers, to describe them politely, in order to find out what is the law. I have known of instances where in order to understand a Bill that has been introduced into this House I have had to have in front of me the principal Act and three or four amending Acts which have been passed in previous years and have never been consolidated. I think this is something to which, to put it practically, the Government could turn its mind because it would fit in very well as the first postgraduate exercise for those who will come from the elementary training in this Institute and who will later be full parliamentary draftsmen and be responsible for the drafting of, firstly, the regulations and then the Bills that come before this Parliament. I do not intend to detain the House any longer. I support the Bill. I have made one or two suggestions which are not in any way at variance with what the Government has in mind. I believe not only that this Bill is good but also that it is overdue and that is a reproach not so much to this Government as to the governments which have preceded it. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
With reference to his answer to question No. 809 (Hansard, 11 September 1973, page 829), has the United Nations prepared a 'catalogue showing: 
the possession by various nations of nuclear weapons and of machinery for 'their utilisation and 
the capacity of all nations to produce such armaments now or in the forseeable future. 
If not, what efforts did the Australian delegation make at the recent session of the United Nations to see that it was compiled. 
Were these efforts unsuccessful; if so, why. 
If the catalogue has been compiled, could h be made available forthwith to members. 
I think there is no member in this House who can claim any close personal association with the late  President  Pompidou and therefore we speak to France and not just as an obituary. We think of our ties with France of which the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  so eloquently reminded us. We have had those ties and we have had those differences. In the tangled web of international affairs I think that nuclear control and disarmament form the great question which hangs over not only us but, indeed, the whole world and we have had our differences with France. We believe, and I think that the French people would also believe, that it is essential that we have effective control of nuclear armaments and effective disarmament. The French people also believe that sham control and sham disarmament are dangerous to them and to humanity. These are beliefs which we should and I think do share with them. 
We have had our differences in regard to the atmospheric testing of nuclear weapons. Do not let us conceal this. Do not let us slur it over. But I think that we should apologise to the people of France for the fact that we have  singled them out and discriminated against them for something quite relatively trivial that they have done in comparison with other much graver things that we have overlooked. I fear that some of the left wing influences to which this Government often lends too ready an ear asked us to single France out. One thinks for example of the fact that the Goverment, indirectly perhaps but by exhortation sporsored industrial disruption against French ships and approved all that was done to help Chinese shipping. The French people can hardly have failed to note this and I think that on this sad occasion we owe some measure of apology not because we want to approve all that they have done but because we have singled them out. When, now, we extend to the French people our sympathy on the death of their President we might perhaps, on behalf of the Australian people, offer concurrently some measure of apology for the way in which we have singled them out and the way in which our Government has co-operated with left wing elements in the community that have been singling them out for this treatment. 
I listened with attention to the words of the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  and I can assure him that nothing that happens politically - and I think things may well happen politically in the next few months - will delay in any way the distribution of this surplus in the Superannuation Fund. Indeed, the parties on this side of the House will support wholeheartedly the idea of this distribution. The honourable member spoke of celerity in distribution. He hoped he would not hear anything more about delays. He is going to hear a word or two but only a word or two. It is not delay that has been worrying the public servants; it is the new concepts that the moneys should be taken from them and used for another purpose. 
These concepts were floating about in the Government ranks. I am glad that pressure from this side has deterred them from the injustices which they proposed to inflict on the Federal public servants by taking away their money and giving it to some other people. A few moments ago the honourable member for Adelaide referred to these concepts as attractive alternatives and things like that. I know that under pressure from the Opposition the Government Party has rejected such concepts and I am glad that it has done so. I congratulate the Government on taking that view even though I know that some supporters, even the dominant factions in its Party, would have supported those concepts. The only reason that the dominant factions do not support them now is that they are frightened of the political consequences that would follow from putting their own philosophy into action. 
I turn to the Bill itself. Of course we on this side support this Bill. It does, within the framework of the existing superannuation arrangements, justice. But does it really do justice? I look at the earnings of 6 per cent and 7 per cent and I compare that with the rate of inflation which is 14 per cent at present and rising. So public servants do not really have a positive rate of interest; they have been suffering from a negative rate of interest. Certainly, in money terms their nest egg has increased by 6 per cent or 7 per cent but in actual terms the purchasing power has gone down by 14 per cent and the net loss - the negative rate of interest - is of the order of 7 per cent. 
This is bad enough for one year - the disastrous Labor year - but if this Government were allowed to continue in office it would be a far worse position next year. The negative rate of real interest under the Government's policy would be round about 14 per cent or 15 per cent at least, and that is not good enough. I know that the proceeds of this Fund have been invested mainly in Government securities and semi-government securities and it has therefore been cash at the disposal, directly or indirectly, of the Commonwealth Treasury. I venture to suggest that the arrangements which have been suggested for the reform of this Fund do not go to the root of the matter nor do they go far enough. 
This type of fund seems to have had its genesis in a period when prices were relatively stable and justice could be done because there was no dominant inflation to do injustice. Inflation falls unjustly on those who have money claims and those in the Superannuation Fund are people who have money claims. They saved. They put their money aside ten, fifteen or twenty years ago when the position was different and they see in this year - this year of economic disaster - inflation rising at a rate which will make their past savings, which were real when they made them, of no future economic significance. This is not good enough. I venture to suggest that the kind of fund that we have, which was sensible enough in its structure at a time when prices were relatively stable, a time when people could have stood perhaps a 2 per cent or 3 per cent average annual rise in prices which we had during the time of Liberal and Country Party governments, is utterly inappropriate to the 14 per cent, 15 per cent and 20 per cent type of inflation which seems endemic today under this present Labor Administration. 
Superannuation always has to be in the form of a money claim. What are we to do about it? I think that there is a reasonable alternative and that is to adjust superannuation payments to meet changes in the price level. This is something which I have advocated for a long time and something which I believe to be only elementary justice. It can be done 'by the Commonwealth Treasury in a way which nobody else is able to finance because the Treasury does get its receipts automatically augmented by any rise in the price level. So it is quite prudent for the Commonwealth Treasury to undertake this type of forward commitment though it would be utterly imprudent for any other organisation. 
I think it is true that an insurance fund is able to invest to some extent in equities and by so investing to ride on the wave of inflation itself, at least to some limited extent. But private funds, even the biggest funds, cannot do this with prudence because the liquidity of its equities may in the future be insufficient to meet its commitments. In the case of the Commonwealth Government the whole of the investment can remain in money claims - money claims against the Treasury in which the funds, directly or indirectly, are deposited. I think it would be utterly wrong to use these funds to dominate private investment or to use them in a way which put the contributors at risk. But surely it is not wrong to use them in the Commonwealth Treasury as a source of finance for public works and to pay out in terms of the current price level, because the Treasury always gets the liquidity which comes from any price rise. 
I now turn to something which is important for Australian public accounts. In the Treasurer's current Budget there are set out - honourable members can find the information by looking through the printed Budget papers - more than $2,000m worth of capital works. Here is something where the funds, whether they be superannuation funds or other funds, can reasonably find a profitable home and they can do it without disturbing or dominating the investment market or making it easy, as a big fund could do in the Treasurer's hands, to socialise through stealth. Of course that is one of the things which the present Administration is out to do. By putting out all sorts of fancy schemes about investing in equities it is trying to bring the private sector under its control. But there is a fundamental inequity in putting our Commonwealth superannuation simply in the form of money claims and then not giving any real compensation for the rate of inflation or the rise in prices. So far as the Commonwealth is concerned there is no technical reason why this fundamental inequity should not be corrected. There is no difficulty about investing the current contributions in money terms inside the Commonwealth Budget. Because the Commonwealth Budget itself must always benefit from any increase in prices, whatever it may be, a hedge against inflation can be reasonably given to contributors to a Commonwealth superannuation fund. 
I say this because I think that we are still too much bound to the past. It is not for me to go into the Treasurer's mind beyond what be has published, but it seems to me from what he has published that the proposals that the Treasurer is considering do not go to the root of the matter and are really bound in a past which is, whether fortunately or unfortunately, long behind us. Of course I do not anticipate that when the Government changes the current rate of inflation will continue - anything but. But at present under this Government there is not only an increasing rate of inflation; there is a momentum in that increasing rate of inflation. Not only the first but also the second differential coefficient is going up. Because of this it will be hard to stop the momentum overnight. In all fairness, I do not think that we will promise that in the week we come in as a new government everything in the garden will be lovely. It will not. This Government has created so much economic havoc that it will take a substantial time to repair the situation. 
I know that as soon as we gain office the rate of inflation will fall, but I would not hold out the promise that we will be able to reduce it to zero overnight. Even if we were to do so, one has to look at the long term secular fall in the value of money which seems to be endemic in most economic systems. So even though we can promise Commonwealth public servants and the public that with the change of government which will shortly occur the rate of inflation will substantially diminish, will taper off with reasonable economic management, we still have to face the fact that there is this two or three per cent secular fall in the value of money rate of inflation which seems to be built into economic systems not only in Australia but indeed overseas too. 
Because of that I say that we should be rethinking our approach to this problem along the lines that I have suggested, taking advantage of the fortunate circumstance that in the Commonwealth Budget there is an immense amount of revenue to be devoted to capital works which can absorb the contributions, taking advantage of the fact inherent in every budget that the government of a country need not fear the pay outs from inflation because inflation will increase its revenues correspondingly. I say that believing that the holding of inflation within reasonable bounds will be the first job tackled by the incoming government and a job which we will tackle successfully. We regard with horror what the present Government has done to the economy and the way in which it has destroyed the foundations of Australian prosperity. 
Finally, I come to what may seem to be a technical matter. I have said that our superannuation arrangements are, in a sense, outmoded because they were laid in a very different kind of economic climate. They were also arranged at a time when an instrument called the computer had not been invented. So our actuarial practices in regard to them are outmoded, and the complication of accounts is quite unnecessary. Because of this quinquennial revaluations are really nonsense. They are technical, and a tremendous amount of expertise is engaged in carrying them out. 
Really they amount to damn all. The real position of the Fund goes forward irrespective of them. Even when they are made, it takes time to distribute the surplus. I suggest that with the computer we have the instrument to cut down these delays by remaking the mechanics of the Fund. The much more important point I want to make is that I believe that the basis of the Fund should be changed so that the pay outs are geared to the current price index at the time when those payouts are made. 

That the question be now put. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
In some ways we have departed from the practices followed by the House of Commons, and in one way which is relevant I am not certain that the Australian Parliament has acted wisely. 
It has been the custom in this Parliament for a  speaker  to be elected from the Government side. In the House of Commons the  Speaker  is believed to stand and generally does stand above the political maelstrom. I think there is a case to be made out for having a  Speaker  who is not elected from the Government side. In this respect perhaps we might return to the traditional wisdom of the House of Commons and adopt what has not been the Australian parliamentary practice but what does seem to be the practice in other parts of the world. 
It is very invidious for a Speaker who is elected from the Government side and is be 
The  Speaker  had invidious duties to perform in the past Parliament. When the verisimilitude of the Prime Minister was called into question and when we knew that the Prime Minister had been deliberately making false statements to this House, it was quite invidious to ask the  Speaker,  who came from the Government side, to bring the honourable gentleman to order. He had to defend the Prime Minister against charges of lying and use his position as  Speaker  in order to do 
<para class="block" pgwide="yes">
 Mr Speaker 9 July 1974 REPRESENTATIVES 11 
With respect,  Sir, I  move dissent from your ruling. 
Although this Bill has been before the House on two previous occasions it has never been debated. The Committee stages have never been held and so the details of this Bill have never been examined by this House at any time. I believe that this is deliberate on the part of the Government. I believe thai the Government is trying to prevent debate upon the details of this Bill. It has done so by the use of the guillotine. The Government's use of the guillotine is entirely beyond precedent. I refer to May's 'Parliamentary Practice', page 445 which states: 
An allocation of Time 
Which is the guillotine -  ... is not usually moved until after the second reading of a bill, and often not until the rate of progress in committee has provided an argument for its necessity. 
That is the practice but this Government has brought down a guillotine preventing any discussion during the Committee stages of this Bill. We have never looked at the Bills. We have never been allowed to look at them. It is a most appalling situation. I shall not go into all the details of this Bill. It will not be possible for me to do so. I want to refer to only a few of the clauses including the financial clauses - clauses 32 and 33 - which seem to give to the Minister an almost unlimited financial power. But I want particularly to refer to clauses IS, SO and 30. Clause IS states: 
The Authority shall comply with the directions (if any) of the Minister in relation to the performance of a function or the exercise of power by the Authority under this Act. 
The Authority is a sham. It does what the Minister tells it to do. This is almost without precedent. The Authority is able to enter on to anybody's land. It can do this under clause SO by obtaining a simple authorisation from any justice of the peace. Any justice of the peace may give the authorisation to do so. Does the public think that there is no compliant or corrupt justice of the peace who the Government could select from among the many thousands in Australia? There is no right of appeal against such an authorisation. This is something we would have been able to examine and expose in the Committee stages of the debate but we have never had a chance to do so because the Government has gagged and guillotined debate. This is a most scandalous practice in regard to this Bill. But the worst of it is what the Authority can do when it gets a warrant from a single justice of the peace, without appeal, and can go on to anybody's land. What the Authority can do is set out in clause 1 4 of the Bill, the Authority may, for the purposes of this Act - 
enter upon and occupy the land; and 
do that act on and over the land so occupied - 
That is, the Authority may: 
construct, build or place any plant, machinery,  equipment or goods;  &lt;b) take sand, clay, stone, earth, gravel, timber, wood or other materials or things; 
make cuttings or excavations; 
dispose of sand, clay, stone, earth, gravel, timber, wood or other materials or things; 
erect workshops, sheds and other buildings; 
make roads; and 
manufacture and work materials of any kind. Let me read on. That clause provides further: 
The Authority may demolish, destroy or remove on or from land occupied by it in pursuance of sub-section (1) any plant, machinery, equipment, goods, workshop, shed, build  ing or road constructed, built, placed or erected on the land in pursuance of that subsection. (4) The person - 
That is, the owner:  . . . shall not, without reasonable excuse, obstruct or hinder the exercise of the powers or rights of the Authority under this section. 
This provision does not just apply to the land of big companies; this is not a Bill just about big companies. This is &gt;a Bill which gives to the Minister for Minerals and. Energy the power to issue instructions to his Authority, if he can find among the many thousands of Justices of the Peace in Australia just one complacent or compliant or corrupt, to go on to anybody's land, to destroy anything. These are matters inherent in the details of the Bill and we have never been allowed to discuss the Bill. 
This is the really apalling aspect about this Bill. I have mentioned one or two matters of detail but there are many other details which should have been examined. The Parliament exists so that honourable members can look at the details of the Bills which are passed and which affect the lives and liberties of Australian people. The Government has consistently violated every canon of parliamentary decency by preventing discussion of the details of these Bills. I repeat that when these Bills have been before this House honourable members have never had an opportunity of examining the details of the Bills in Committee. There has been no debate upon them. I believe that this is part of a plan. I believe that this has not happened by chance, that the Government is concealing its real purposes here as elsewhere. The Government is accumulating in its hands all sorts of dictatorial powers which maybe it has not used as yet, but which it is holding in reserve to use against the Australian people under the form of semblance of law. 
This is a Bill which the Government has told the House it will try to put through a joint sitting where the Government will have the numbers. Maybe the Government will be able to do that. I do not know whether the constitutional forms have in this case been properly observed. But if it does that - if it is able to do it - let the people know that they are suffering under a law which this Parliament has never examined in detail and never debated in detail. There are in this Bill all sorts of provisions of the kind that I have mentioned. If we had been allowed to debate and examine the 54 clauses of the Bill on an  earlier occasion I imagine that there would have been some 20 or 30 matters which the Opposition would have brought to the attention of the Parliament and about which the Opposition might have been able to inform the Australian people before they voted at the last election. 
My honourable friend reminds me that we have not looked at one of these matters. We have not been allowed to look at them. We know about them, sure. We have been trying to debate them. But the Government, using its numbers, using the deceit which it has practised on the Australian people, is trying to put through Bills whose effect is unknown. 
 I am a non-admirer of the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  99 per cent of the time but in this case I am not so much against him as is the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James).  I think there is something to be said for the proposals the Minister makes and they are not to be opposed. However, he rightly said that the proposals were to be regarded as interim measures and they could be improved. I think that they could be improved in two or three directions. One of them, I believe, is already in the Minister's mind; that is - I feel that it would not be an imposition - to shorten the time of adjournment speeches. They would not have to be shortened drastically. Perhaps they could be cut down from  10  minutes to  7  minutes or something of that character. 
Secondly, I would hope that on the Thursday night, or another night, we would start the adjournment debate at  10.15  p.m. instead of at  10.30  p.m. The main point I am trying to make - as the honourable member for Hunter said a moment ago - is that on some nights a matter is raised in the adjournment debate which needs discussion by a number of members of both sides and it is hard to cut the debate off in an arbitrary fashion. We know that there has to be some limit to the debates and I see merit in the  11  o'clock adjournment. I hope that the Minister will consider my proposal. I do not intend to put it forward as a formal motion now, but I hope that some kind of a compromise might be brought in. Probably something could be done along the lines of a new clause (f) to provide for either the Leader of the House or the Deputy Leader of the Opposition to move the motion once a week that the time of the adjournment debate be lengthened, say  15  minutes, so that if, as happens sometimes, there is a live topic running on the adjournment we can have a small and reasonable extension. 
As the motion is drawn now, as far as I can see, except by the suspension of the sessional order it would be very difficult to extend the adjournment debate on that odd occasion where there is a topic of interest which we should continue discussing. Perhaps the Standing Orders Committee could examine something along the lines that I have suggested. I would not want too much of an extension. I think that in general the  11  o'clock rule operates fairly and reasonably well. A little flexibility is all that is required. If we were to shorten a little the time of adjournment speeches we could have one or two more speakers on the adjournment. These are the matters that I put forward in a very tentative way for consideration. 
Tonight I wish to offer congratulations to 4 members of the Government Party for the courage they have displayed. I refer to the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham),  who is the honourable member for Capricornia, the Minister for the Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass),  who is the honourable member for Maribyrnong, the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  and the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman).  The house will have perceived that I am offering congratulations to 4 genuine medical doctors on the other side -  Dr Everingham, Dr Cass, Dr Gun  and  Dr Klugman.  I do so because they are doctors and they have had the courage to defy their union by giving support to the Government's health Bills and the Government's health program. It requires quite a large measure of courage on the part of a Labor member to defy his union - to scab, as it were, if I may use the picturesque phrase, that labour employs in these matters. 
I offer these congratulations all the more sincerely because I believe that the issue that they have chosen is a wrong issue. But that is not the point. The point is that they have shown great courage in allowing themselves to be associated with this action. They have defied their union. They have defied the organisation either to which they belong or which operates to control the trade and calling to which they belong. They have done this not because their union has as yet done anything illegal or anything of that character. It is only suggested that it might perhaps be taking a course of action which is perfectly legal but which would run counter to the Government's health scheme. They have had the courage of their convictions. They realise that the requirements of what they believe to be the national interest - I do not believe it to be the national interest, but they do - should override all trade union obligations. I agree with them. This is a courageous thing to do. They will be named as scabs. 
I do not consider that to be a valid point at all. He is a member of this trade and profession. That is his calling. The trade and profession is concerned with its remuneration, its conditions of employment, its conditions of work. To take the trivial point that the honourable member takes is surely wrong. Anyway, I am congratulating him, so let the point stand. What he has done as a private individual defying the union is all the more meritorious because the union so far has done nothing illegal. The union is covered by the clause in the Constitution which prevents industrial conscription and the union, if it organises, is of course covered by a clause in the Constitution. 
But what has been done is, in the jargon of the trade union movement, scabbing. It takes a great deal of courage, and I think the honourable members should be congratulated on the courage that they are displaying in this matter. It goes further than that, because they are supporting the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  who has gone on record recently as either himself encouraging the organisation of a scab union or alternatively encouraging the use of free labour in the medical field where the union itself has some kind of authority. I think it is a very good thing. I do not think that the union has behaved wrongly, but I think it is a very good thing that members of a union who believe it has behaved wrongly should have the courage of that belief; and they have exhibited high, fine courage in coming out and defying their union when remuneration for work is in question. They incur the danger of being named scabs and of being associated with the formation of what could be either a scab union, in the very unfair jargon of the trade union movement, or perhaps the organisation of free labour where the union had decided to withdraw its labour. 
This is a most important principle and I commend it. We need more people who have the courage of these 4 doctors. We need more people who, when a union is wrong, when a union is defying the court, when a union is doing something illegal, will, as these 4 people have done, endorse the principle that the national interest is superior to union organisation and that the national interest should take precedence over union organisation. We need more people with this kind of courage who, when the union is behaving wrongly as some unions have recently behaved - indeed one union was recently castigated by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  at this table yesterday - will stand up and say: 'I will defy the union. I will work. I believe that my obligations to the nation are superior to my obligations to the union, and if they call me 'scab' - to use that horrible word - 'then I have behind me the great example of these four Government supporters who have endorsed this principle, that a member has a higher obligation than his obligation to the union and that he has a duty now to be a strike breaker'. He has a duty to encourage free labour in a calling where, as the Minister for Transport said yesterday, the union is behaving in an outrageous and irresponsible fashion. I will not repeat the adjectives that the Minister employed. They were very strong adjectives and his statement was a very strong statement. Surely the members of the union to which the Minister referred now have the obligation to show the same guts as our 4 parliamentarians have shown, to defy their union and to work; because as the Minister has said, they are in defiance of the court. Their actions are illegal. Let them remember, as they are reminded by the actions of our 4 heroes tonight - 
Are there five? 
I am sorry if I have missed one. I apologise to whomever I have missed. Let me add their names to the heroic roll of honour. Let these people whom the Minister describes as workers who are in defiance of the court and who are doing horrible things remember that they have a higher obligation than their obligation to the union. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. Does he recall that during the course of the recent election campaign he made no mention whatsoever of the drastic and, indeed, draconian economic measures which the Government has subsequently found to be necessary? Does he also recall that during his first telecast after the election claiming victory he gave notice of these measures showing that they were in his mind all along? Will he consult with his colleague, the Minister for Services and Property, to see whether there can be included in the coming legislation some provision against such obtaining of votes by false pretences? 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I have very much pleasure in supporting the Extradition (Foreign States) Bill because it does not in any way detract from the protections which are given under the existing Act to people who would otherwise be liable to extradition. But in supporting the Bill I draw the attention of the House to weaknesses in the existing Act. The honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  has referred to Part III of the existing Act which gives protection, firstly, of a court hearing, and secondly, of the discretion of the AttorneyGeneral. A court hearing is all very well but let us remember that Communist countries are able to produce perjury and forgery at their will. If, for political purposes, they want the extradition of an innocent person they will be able to produce in Australia false and perjured evidence of crimes such as murder, larceny or whatever it may be. They do this kind of thing because this is of the nature of what is known as Communist justice. If that be so, the ultimate protection is in the discretion of the Attorney-General. Unhappily when the present Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  came into office one of his first published statements was to the effect that he would have a lot of Yugoslavs extradited. He has aligned himself with the Communists. Let us be quite clear on this. Let every migrant know that we now have an Attorney-General who is on the Communist side in relation to extradition. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Luchetti)I ask the honourable member to return to the Bill. 
But this is the Bill,  Sir. This  is right on the Bill. For example, what happens if somebody in China such as the great friend of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  that evil goon  Chairman  Mao, wanted to extradite somebody from Australia, perhaps some Taiwanese whose only crime was that he opposed the Communist regime?  Chairman  Mao would be able to produce for the courts here false and forged documents, forged and perjured evidence. That is all available to a Communist dictator. Of course the courts would have to act on that evidence. The only protection lies in the discretion of an Attorney-General. We have seen that this Government has an Attorney-General who is on the Communist side in this matter. 
 I have very much pleasure in rising to support this motion. It is not very often that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and I find ourselves in such accord. I support this motion particularly because, in the new circumstances as they have emerged in the last 18 months, the good results which could flow from a committee such as the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence have been emphasised and underlined. This is not an executive committee. It is a committee which should operate to inform the minds of these honourable members who constitute it, and as such, since all the members are members of one House of the Parliament or the other, it will help produce a better informed Parliament. This has always been a good thing, but unhappily there are circumstances which make it even more desirable today than it has been. 
In the past we could have hoped to have had some kind of bipartisan foreign policy. At the present moment I think it is unlikely that this House could evolve a fully bipartisan foreign policy. For that reason it seems to me to be desirable that we should have a committee which can obtain information - a committee which is not of the Executive character but which will help to inform members on both sides of the House of the realities of the situation. I say this with a very great deal of regret: It seemed to me, some 10 years ago perhaps, that this House could evolve a bipartisan foreign policy, but with the advent of the present Government some 18 months ago that hope seems to have been diminished to a very great extent. 
For 23 years Australia had an alignment in foreign policy. For 23 years Australia was on the anti-communist side. But, through the actions of the present Government, Australia is now being taken on to the communist side under the pretence of non-alignment. That is a very serious matter which I hope the Committee will examine. I cannot hope that there will be a bipartisan approach on the Committee. The members of the Committee doubtless will be divided in their opinions. But at least they will be able to inform their minds of the views of both sides. 
I express the hope that the Government will not use its majority on this Committee to prevent those in the minority from informing their minds on those matters that they think desirable. In other words, I hope that the Government will not use its numbers on this Committee to prevent those in the minority from sending for those persons and papers that they - those in the minority - feel would help them in evaluating their own position and in ascertaining the facts in relation to which a foreign policy should evolve. I appeal to the Prime Minister - I am supporting his motion - to ensure that the Government majority on the Committee does not use its numbers to prevent those in the minority on the Committee from following those investigations which seem to them to be important. 
Maybe some self-restraint will be necessary on the Government side of the House because at the moment there is not a bipartisan Australian foreign policy. The Government cannot hope for people on this side of the House to come over to its pro-communist way of thinking or to follow the double standards that it has evinced in its conduct of Australia's foreign policy. Let me give an example. It is something that I hope the Committee will go into. We have had a great deal of bother- about French nuclear tests. I think the fact remain's that, whatever the legality of the situation, there has been gross deception on the part of the Government as to the extent of the damage that could occur in Australia from such tests. Indeed, on examining the matter I have found that the Government has taken positive steps to dismiss those of its technical advisers who were telling the truth which was unpalatable to the Government. In this regard at an administrative level there has been a certain amount of corruption in matters of the highest importance. I hope that the Committee will be able to go into matters of that character. 
The Prime Minister's great and powerful friends in Communist China let off a rather big bang only recently, but we have not been given the contamination figures from that big bang. The fact is that the contamination experienced in the northern hemisphere was many thousands of times greater than anything experienced here as a result of the French tests. The fact is that the effects of the Chinese bomb on Australia will be very much greater than the effects of the French tests. Although I do not think that its effects will be terribly important, they will still be many times greater than those of the French bombs. Those facts have been sedulously concealed from the Australian people. I hope that the Committee will have the opportunity of going into those facts, of finding out the figures and of making them public, even though it may discomfort the Government to have them revealed. 
But, much more important than that, there is the double standard that the Government has evinced in this matter. With respect to the French tests we have had Government helped and sponsored protests, bans and all sorts of things. But, with respect to the Chinese tests, which have done very much worse both to Australia and to the world, we have had only formal protests. The Government has not sponsored any ban on Chinese shipping. It has not sponsored any holding up of the mails to China. That is the double standard at work. I hope that the Committee will have the chance of examining the details following this kind of thing and of exposing this kind of double standard that the Government evinces in Australia's foreign policy. 
I know that the Prime Minister has said that the Chinese are not signatories to the relevant United Nations documents and that therefore we cannot bring them before the International Court of Justice. But where are the protests about the Chinese not being signatories? Surely not being a signatory to those documents is or should be, on the Government's reckoning, a far more heinous offence than not abiding by what the Government believes, whether rightly or wrongly, to be a violation. At least the French are in the system. It may be that we do not know what the Court will finally decide in these matters, but at least the French are there. The Chinese have refused to come to court. What is the Government doing about that? If it is so violently indigant against one side, why is it not showing the same indignation against the other? The answer, of course, is a very simple one - the double standard. 
- Under the pretence of following a non-aligned policy, the Government favours the communist side all the time. I am indebted to my friend the honourable member for Hunter for making an interjection which I hope you will allow me to follow up,  Mr Speaker.  Perhaps it is a little irrelevant, but I would like to follow it up. Yes, I do believe that when we had the chance to enforce nuclear disarmament we should have taken that chance. In my view- 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn  to my remarks  during the last Parliament suggesting a visit  of a  Parliamentary delegation to Tibet  (Hansard,  23 October 1973,  page  2570). 
In view of the fraternal arrangements arrived at between the present Australian Government and the Communist Government of China, would he anticipate any difficulty in arranging a visit by Members of this Parliament to Tibet. 
Will he make immediate approaches to his friend Chairman Mao to ascertain whether such a delegation could be arranged. 
If so, will he make arrangements for the delegation so that the rumours of oppressive events in Tibet, which I mentioned in my remarks on 23 October 1973, might be appropriately refuted or exposed. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
Yes. A few moments ago the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  was good enough to mention me as the preceding Minister and asked why we had taken no action in regard to certain problems of the inmates of nursing homes. That is an utter misrepresentation. We did take action. Unfortunately the crash program for the aged persons hostels, which was one of the most important actions we took, has been muffed by the Minister. The crash program has fizzled out and that is the Minister's fault, not ours. 

 Mr HAYDEN (Oxley- Minister for Social Security) - I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Previous speakers on this measure have dealt with major principles rather than details. I intend, if I may in a few brief remarks, to follow the same course. This Government has modified the nature of the Bill in response to pressures perhaps from another place. But I would think that the Government's intentions remain - sometimes covered up and sometimes openly - as the Government itself would say, socialist intentions. The Bill is an instrument of socialisation, yet I will support it and will give reasons for so doing. This Bill does not, in my view, add very materially to the power of the Government to subvert the Australian economy. It is an instrument which can be good, which is very powerful and which can be abused, but there are so many other instruments in the economy which could be abused that it is really not relevant to say this can be made an instrument of socialisation. Those instruments already exist and the course of our development will be decided not so much by this Bill or that Bill but by the nature of the government in power and the intentions of the government in power. Therefore, although this is a Bill which can be made an instrument of socialisation - I have no doubt the Government intends it is an instrument of socialisation - nevertheless I think it can be supported because there is no safety from socialisation except by getting rid of the present Government which occupies the Treasury benches. It is a very powerful instrument. I believe that the forces which generated it came largely from something which the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  and the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  both mentioned in the course of this debate, namely, the feeling on the part of Australians that we should have ownership of our local resources. 
I want to recall to the House what has happened in this regard because it is not often realised what has happened. Australia has had what is known as an adverse balance on current account in most years and for a long time. This arose partly because we needed special development as a new country and partly because our savings were insufficient to carry that development. I am afraid that I take issue with the right honourable member for Lowe in this regard. I am afraid that the statistics do not bear out his view as to the very large nature of the Australian savings program. I put this as proof: Our development of productivity in recent years, having regard to the increase in our population and so on, has not been significantly greater than the development of productivity in those countries which have exported capital to us. We have been unable to make that development from our own savings, whereas they from their savings were able to finance their own development, have the same kind of increase in productivity and have an excess of capital available to export to us. 
Whatever the details may be, by inspection we can see that in recent years the Australian savings program has not been adequate to our circumstances, When  Sir Alan  Westerman, who was quoted by the right honourable member for Lowe a few moments ago, can say that we need $1 6,000m of investment in the next 10 years in Australia, we get some idea of the shortfall in Australian savings. This shows itself in the adverse balance on current account in our foreign trade, and this has been endemic in the Australian economy for very many years. But a very vital difference took place in 1929. This is something which is not generally appreciated. Before 1929 our population was expanding rather more rapidly proportionately than it is today and our development was somewhat more rapid in comparison with that of other countries. We had an adverse balance on current account. That balance was almost entirely made good by public borrowings overseas. There was a large inflow of capital in the form of public borrowings - Federal, State, local government - and it came in in the form of debentures rather than equity. The consequence of this was that the inflow of funds became available through the Australian banking system for the Australian entrepreneur, and Australian industry was able to expand and maintain its own equity. 
In 1929 or thereabouts 2 things happened. Firstly the Loan Council was established in terms of the Financial Agreement. I think it was passed by the referendum in 1927 or 1928. That centralised the power to borrow so that the States and local government authorities lost their access to markets overseas. Then there came a depression. I can remember  Sir Otto  Niemeyer coming out here and castigating us for the way in which we had borrowed excessively. From that day forward, with the sole exception of a small interregnum during the war we have virtually borrowed nothing overseas on government account. Indeed, I believe we have not even borrowed overseas on private account net because when the local borrowings of foreign firms are taken into account probably then also the balance is negative. If one looks at the details as I have looked at them for the sinking fund payments and things of that character, one will see that our debenture borrowings have been nil or negative since the end of the war. There have been small exceptions, but only very small exceptions. Yet during all this time we have had an adverse balance on current account running into hundreds of millions of dollars a year. This year it is likely to top $l,500m. 
This has to be made good by foreign investment or, of course, to some extent by living on our accumulated reserves, which are themselves the fruit of past foreign investment. But this comes in in the form of equity - ownership of real things. Since 1929 Australian business has been strangled because the bank funds have not come in through borrowing. The equity funds came in, but they were never available to the Australian entrepreneur, so that over the last 40 or 50 years the guts has been kicked out of the Australian businessman, who has not had normal access to bank funds. In point of fact risk capital in Australia is very difficult to obtain. The disease grows on what it feeds on. 
I come back to the Bill. The AIDC has the power to borrow overseas. I think this is why I would support the Bill in spite of the socialist dangers inherent in it. I would support it because I believe that this should be a means of mobilising debenture capital from overseas to make good our endemic deficiency on current account. It should be a means of mobilising capital and making it available either directly or through the normal Australian banking system to the Australian entrepreneur so that ownership will be increased in Australian hands. This is to my way of thinking the main virtue of the whole process. 

 Mr Speaker, I know that you would otherwise think I was out of order, so I make only passing reference to the fact that on the notice paper at present I have notice of a Bill to levy a tax upon foreign companies. This is meant as a means of inducing foreign companies to transfer the equity ownership of their things in Australia into Australian hands and substitute for it a debenture ownership. This will enable us - in the words, I think, of  Sir John  McEwen, who has been much quoted today - to buy back bit by bit the paddocks in the Australian farm which we have sold. I support this Bill. I support it as part of a process. As I said, the proposal I am making in the House for a differential tax on foreign companies would be part of the same objective. 
1 agree. I am only making a passing reference. I think you have been tolerant,  Mr Speaker,  to have allowed me to make that reference so far, and I will not pursue the matter further. The reasons I have given are very condensed, and I am afraid that because they have been overcondensed they may be a little difficult to follow. For the reasons I have given, in spite of the fact that this can be an instrument of socialism, I still support the Bill because I believe that this organisation can be a significant part of the process of returning the equity ownership of businesses and property in Australia to the hands of Australian citizens. 
This series of Bills has become necessary because of the increased charges proposed to be levied by the Australian Post Office. These increased charges are very largely due to the unsatisfactory industrial conditions which apply there. 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
1 support this Bill and would like to say a few things about the position. Although these are big increases - I think they are deserved increases and I do not complain about them - they are still not quite as good as the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  would have us believe. He wants to tie the pension to 25 per cent of average weekly male earnings. 
Right, but the Minister has not got as close as he said. His figures are deceptive. 
I am glad that the honourable member for Hunter, as usual, is helping me with his interjections. Let me quote from what the Minister said: 
The pension will be almost 25 per cent of the estimated average male weekly earnings, seasonally adjusted, for the June quarter 1974. 
That is an exact quote of what he said. What he does not tell the House is that the figure for the June quarter actually relates to the middle of the June quarter so, he is talking about average weekly male earnings which applied somewhere about the middle of May, and now it is towards the end of July. So he is already that much behind. It did not mean much when prices and average weekly male earnings were relatively stable but it means a lot now. It was one of these deceptive little tricks. Perhaps, when he looks at the figures in detail, the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  will remember this and he will see that it will not be very long, with the present rate of inflation, before the pension as a percentage of average weekly earnings is down again to the figure that the Government derided. For these reasons, I do not think that this increase is too big. What I am saying is that the Government is being a little bit deceitful in its boasts of what it has done. 
It is just a little bit of gilding, perhaps not a very great deal, but it is worth keeping in mind that the Government has not done as well as it said it would. It is worthwhile to remember also that the Australian pension is the highest in the world paid to non- contributory pensioners. In terms of purchasing power it is very much the highest and this again I regard as a good and not a bad thing. I am saying this not because 1 believe that the Australian pension should be lower but because I believe we should try to appreciate how good by world standards - and I am not saying other than by world standards - our position is. Again, I do not want my words to be twisted so as to be taken to say that pensioners should get less or that pensioners have got too much or anything like that; I am saying exactly the opposite. But I do remind the House that the Australian pension is the highest non-contributory pension in the world. 
I should like now to put before the House something rather more substantial and constructive. After all, we are all trying to do the best for pensioners. We may differ between ourselves as to the methods we adopt to achieve this but there is no difference between us in our hope that we can do the best. I find it disappointing that the Government has concentrated too much on the rate of pension while forgetting other things. Again I remind the House that I am not saying that the pension should be lower. What I am saying is that other things should be taken into account. If they were taken into account we might be doing better for pensioners. The past Government, of which I was a Minister, was working to a plan which embraced the real rate of pension but it also turned to other factors. The honourable member for Henty  (Mrs Child)  who just resumed her seat- 
Yes. She deplored very rightly the rents that some pensioners have to pay. One of the main things that the Government can and should do to help pensioners is to assist more with housing. It is only a small proportion of pensioners - a sur- . prisingly small proportion - that live in rented premises, but those people need special help. I believe that the best kind of help to give them is to increase the housing that is available, either through state subsidised schemes or preferably through such schemes as the aged persons homes scheme. I am a little disappointed that the Government has failed to carry out the objectives of the aged persons hostels legislation which the previous Liberal Party-Country Party Government put through shortly before it went out of office. That legislation provided for a crash program over 3 years to provide very large numbers of hosteltype beds for pensioners. This was not the entire solution, of course, but it was a very great part of the solution. 
In recent months, it is true, that plan has gone forward, but owing to the administrative difficulties of the Government - I would say almost the administrative clumsiness of the Minister for Social Security - for a year it practically stood still and stagnant. This was a great loss in terms of accommodation which, I agree with the honourable member for Henty, is the prime need of those pensioners who do not own their own houses. Then we come to this matter of supplementary assistance. This is the rent allowance which we pay to those pensioners who have not got their own houses. I am sorry that the Government has not seen fit to raise this allowance because, as the honourable member for Henty well knows, these are the people who are most in need. The figure was doubled under the previous Liberal Party-Country Party Government - I think it was in 1972  -  and has been left stationary since then. Although prices and, as the honourable member for Henty said, rents have risen, we are doing no more for these people who are among the most deserving of the pensioners. The real value of supplementary assistance has been eroded. It would have been better if the Government had done a little more towards helping those receiving this assistance. 
I am told that flat owners would take it in increased rent. That is a very negative approach, and I do not believe that it is an approach that would commend itself to pensioners. We have now the honourable member for Henty saying that we must not increase supplementary assistance because the flat owners would take it all in increased rents. 
I do not think that that is a very constructive approach or a very - no, I will not say that, because I would not like to offend the honourable member for Henty, but- 
Perhaps the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  can give us some idea of what this is all about and what the building is for. I am afraid that I have no information about it at the present moment. It may be that I am not opposed to the motion. I would just like to get some information, because the Government has not acted in good faith in regard to some of these major radiation matters. I am not clear in my mind whether this matter is concerned with matters where the Government has acted in bad faith or whether it is concerned with other matters. At all events, I would like to know more about this matter and what the building is for. Perhaps the Minister can give us some information. 
I think the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  has done a service to the House and to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works by raising the matter in the form that he has. I am assured by the remarks of the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  that all of these wider matters will be taken into consideration by the Committee. You know very well,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that the Committee is inclined to look not at the fundamental policy of the Government, which it may regard as beyond its competence to criticise, but rather at the details of the proposal which the Government is bringing forward. It will not - it has not done in the past - take upon itself the role of a major critic of government policy. In the past it has looked rather to the ways in which this policy was to be carried out. I am very much reassured by what the honourable member for Burke has said because he tells us in the House now that the Committee will, if necessary, criticise govern ment policy, and that if it thinks that government policy is wrong it will overturn it. That is a very important statement from the  Chairman  of the Committee. I hope that that statement will be borne out in practice and that when the Committee thinks that the Government has made a mistake in policy the Committee will not hesitate in bringing the matter before the House. 
As the honourable member for Burke said a moment ago, the Committee is the watchdog of the Parliament or the country, I forget exactly what he said but he did use the word watchdog'. So it should be a watchdog because, as I think the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  said a moment ago in another debate, it is not possible for the House to have time to debate all of these matters of detail. Very properly these matters of detail go to the Committee for consideration. But we now have the assurance that the Committee, beyond the consideration of these matters of detail, will consider also matters of principle and matters of government policy. I think that the honourable member for Curtin has raised very considerable doubts. I know nothing of the details of the circumstances of the Perth project but 1 feel that the citizens of Perth have a right to be represented. If the Government has a policy which conflicts with the interests of the citizens of Perth in regard to the development in the centre of Perth, then the Committee should take note of that and it should be prepared to overturn the policy of the Government. In a previous debate which took place a few moments ago I endeavoured to raise this point. I raised it, I thought, with all the brevity and courtesy that I could muster. I asked the Minister for an explanation of what his previous proposal was all about. 
Yes. I hope that in that case also the Committee will examine the policy of the Government and if it thinks the policy of the Government is wrong it will overturn it. At this present moment I am entirely ignorant as to what the Minister had in mind and he does not know either - I beg your pardon; he had nothing in mind - what the proposal was directed to. It was quite obvious that the Minister was making a proposal in this House without knowing what it was all about. 
I think it is relevant because we have- 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 

 Mr KEITH JOHNSON (Burke)-  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
Central Health Laboratory, Woden, Australian Capital Territory 
I take this opportunity to commend the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  because of this case, reading from his brief, he told us the purpose of the proposed work. Of course, it is a proposal we would all support. 
No, you did not. The Minister called it a radiation laboratory. We were not told what it is to be for and what it is supposed to do. In this case we were told. I think everybody in the House would support the kind of purpose embodied in the motion as explained by the Minister. I commend the Minister, or perhaps I should say that I commend the writer of his brief, because in this case it is so markedly different from the brief he read out to us on &gt;an earlier occasion. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
New Telephone Exchange, Haymarket, New South Wales 
Certain features of our consideration of this Bill give me great pleasure particularly the reference made by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones),  when introducing the measure, to the completion of the standardisation of gauge proposals which were put forward in the time of the last Government with which I was associated. I am delighted that this standardisation program will he completed at last. I do not have time to say very much but there are certain things to which I should like to draw the attention of the Committee. First, it is important that we should have some rationalisation of our railway system. I think it is noteworthy that when anything sensible is suggested there is great trade union opposition to it, and there are threats of strikes and black bans. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has said that the railways must be run efficiently. I hope that the Prime Minister will make his opposition to this trade union activity very clear. 
One important thing I should like to say is that we should be using our rail system to a far greater extent and we should be reducing freights and fares to marginal cost. Only a few days ago the Prime Minister put forward the proposition that railways should pay for themselves. By that he meant that railways should pay for all their fixed charges. This is insanity in the present situation, because it is an inflationary policy. What the Prime Minister is suggesting is not only wrong; it is diametrically and absolutely wrong. The marginal cost, the real outlay, of using an existing railway line to a greater extent is relatively small. If one is thinking of conserving real resources, whilst one must maintain the full rigours of cost benefit studies when one is considering new capital works and the utilisation of existing capital works in this period when inflation is such a menace now is the time not to increase fares and freights but to reduce them as a counterinflationary measure. 
The principle that has been put forward by the Prime Minister when he requires these ventures, these enterprises, to pay their full costs in addition to their marginal costs is not only wrong; it is absolutely wrong. If we are to have economy in our transport system we should be making the greatest possible use of our existing capital facilities. Therefore we should give the public the power to use these capital facilities without charge for the capital that already has been expended. In this inflationary situation when we are trying to get costs down, it would be a very great economic benefit to reduce rail freight charges and fares to the marginal costs of operating the new services which would be required for the extended custom. 
I think a lot of rail services should be terminated. In most cases country passenger services should be very much reduced because they are not economic But I believe that the remaining services should be given at marginal cost so that we would get the full facilities and the country producers could get the benefit of cheap freight rates. One would hope that, for example, many of the country lines would be used simply as freight lines for heavy goods - perhaps livestock, grain and superphosphate - and that the mixed services would be cut out and the passenger services be replaced, as they should be, by buses. This would enable the country people to get a rail service at a very cheap rate and would reduce costs and be to the ultimate benefit of all the rural areas. 
I come now to the urban areas. Here I say that so far as the Government is concerned a little knowledge has proved to be a dangerous thing. Some of the policies which it has advocated are good. For example, it is good that we should have more emphasis placed on proper public transport in the cities. But when one comes to the detailed application of these principles the Government seems to be a little astray. Every city has different problems because the pattern of every city is different. For Sydney - I speak now of Sydney which is a city I know, and I speak only of Sydney's problems - the principles which the Minister for Transport has spoken of in regard to freeways, are not quite applicable because, as it happens, the most eastward crossing of the harbour leads to the heart of the central business district via the Harbour Bridge. Therefore the freeway system which bypasses the city, since it cannot go out to sea, must come in very close to the central business district. So it is important to get not what the Minister has been writing down as radial freeways, but bypass freeways which, as it happens, must not be very different from the radial pattern because of the geography of Sydney. 
The other thing I want to say is that I believe we have to have a much better suburban rail system in Sydney. In some places, not all, it is most economical to go down into tunnels and keep the system underground. This is far cheaper, generally speaking, than putting the system on the surface owing to the costs and the inconveniences of land resumptions. I have had figures taken out, and there is little doubt that in Sydney sandstone, which is very suitable for tunnelling, a single track railway tunnel can be constructed for less than $1.5m per mile. This can be done by the new techniques of the 'mole' and other tunnelling devices which are now available. This is very much the cheapest form of track, because obviously one does not build double tracks; one builds 2 single tracks because this is the most economical way to go about it. 
One would hope, for example, for my area - again I am being parochial and I speak of my own electorate - we would have a deep tunnel railway which would go under at Middle Harbour somewhere near the Spit and go under Sydney Harbour somewhere near the Bridge. By so doing we would relieve the 2 rail tracks on the Bridge of the new traffic and enable them to be developed to provide the better service for the North Shore, the Mosman and the Cremorne areas that they should have. I do not believe that the railway in my own electorate should go north of Dee Why, but I believe it could be fed by a system of buses, particularly by small mini buses which would give a high frequency of service. To many passengers this is the most important thing. The reason for low patronage of bus services, at least in my area, is very largely, their infrequency, whereas if we had a mini bus service in which the buses came every few minutes, they would be used and they could put service back into the system. 
The Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  in introducing this Bill - 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. I would take up this point immediately. 
I have been misrepresented entirely. It is true that I did, when I was Minister, make an initial grant of $25,000 -not $400,000- to the turtle farming project. I ask the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant)  to put that fact straight. I will not be misrepresented in this manner. 
I listened with attention to what the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  had to say. I seek an assurance that, when the Public Works Committee examines this matter, he will refer to it consideration of the way in which this large expenditure - S56m - fits into the overall quarantine plan for animals and in particular fits into the plans which need to be implemented for helping positively the importation of new animal strains into Australia free from infection. 
This is a most important matter. I am not questioning this expenditure in any way. But I do seek the Minister's assurance that, when this reference comes before the Committee, he will ask the Committee to examine not only the technical matters of air conditioning, crossinfection and so on, but also, as he mentioned in his speech, the way in which this large expenditure of $56m fits into the overall scheme. I have an idea that the Government has been endeavouring to take away from the Public Works Committee its real and proper function of seeing how each one of the works referred to it fits into Government policy, and has been confining the Committee to the consideration of the technical matters of how buildings are to be built, whether what is proposed is economic, and so on. If I can have the Minister's assurance on that matter I will be vastly obliged. 
Although I support both the amendments which have been moved by the. honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  I propose to speak only to the first. That does not mean in any sense that I do not support the second. I listened to the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron).  I think he described himself as Old Snake Eyes, but that is in the past. I listened to him with a certain amount of incredulity because he seemed to be arguing against himself all the time. The first amendment moved by the honourable member for Wannon simply puts the obligation on a union to have a fair ballot. What is wrong with that? The Minister, from his own experience, knows that union organisations are frequently crook and he himself has gone into court and maintained the proposition. 
We gave him the protection of our legislation, as the honourable member for Wannon reminds me, and he was very glad to avail himself of that protection. 
Why does he deny this protection to other unionists? Why does he believe that he can get protection and other unionists are not allowed to have it? He said that there can be a ballot if 250 miserable unionists - I use his phrase - ask for it. They would be miserable all right because they would be victimised and he knows this perfectly well. He knows the kind of pressure which the left wing communists, the leaders of the union - particularly the Australian Metal Workers Union - can bring to bear on capitalists and trade unionists. 
We on this side of the chamber are out to protect individual unionists from the tyranny of the corrupt left wing in the unions. The Minister, who knows from his own experience how corrupt these unions can be, will, when he thinks of his position, surely come on our side and will surely accept this amendment. What is wrong with it? He said a few moments ago that we are taking a right from the unionists. That is exactly the opposite of the truth. The Minister cannot have read the Bill because I do not believe he is a deliberate liar. I do not believe he would say things knowing them to be. untrue. Yet he said something which is completely untrue. I am sure he has done it only because he has not read or has not understood the legislation which he has brought into this chamber. All we are saying in this amendment is that there should be a fair ballot. What is wrong with that? All we are saying is that no 250 miserable unionists - I again use the Minister's own phrase - should be made miserable by having to stand up against the tyranny and intimidation of their own left wings. 
The Minister earlier in his. life may have had the courage to stand up against the tyranny of the unions. Perhaps that courage was reinforced by the fact that he was a member of this Parliament, which gave him some standing. But what of the little men, the people who do not have the good fortune or whatever it is to be members of this Parliament? Are we to abandon them? The Minister used his privilege as a member of this House to protect himself but these 250 miserable unionists will not have that same kind of privilege. Does he want to kow-tow to the communists and the left wing? Does he want to make these 250 miserable unionists the target of black bans, of all the kinds of corrupt pressures which the left wing and the unions can organise against them? He knows that the left wing of the unions in Melbourne for example, did not hesitate to stoop to murder in order to intimidate union members. He knows this perfectly well. Yet here he is coming to this place and abandoning the individual members of the unions to the tyranny of the organised left wing. He knows perfectly well that once that left wing gets command of the ballot machinery no election will be fairly conducted. The only way in which to ensure fairness and equity is to ensure that the ballot is conducted by the electoral officers. We intend to move for that. The honourable member for Wannon has brought into this chamber a proposal which should commend itself to every member of the Labor Party who is opposed to the corrupt left wing. 
I see that the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Riordan)  is in the chamber. I pay a tribute to the honourable member. I believe he is one of the people who not only has stood out against this corrupt communist left wing but who, before he had the privilege of being a member of this place, suffered considerably for his expression of opinion which 1 would entirely commend and his exhibition of courage which all of us should commend. The honourable member for Phillip knows perfectly well the truth of what I am saying because in the Federated Clerks Union a small corrupt communist coterie got control of the balloting machinery and by abuse of that machinery was able to maintain itself in power. If it had not been for the dedicated work of people like the honourable member for Phillip, that corrupt communist coterie would be in control of the Clerks Union today, irrespective of the fact that 90 per cent plus of the members of that union would repudiate it. This was done by a manipulation of ballots, by intimidation and by requiring those who stood out against the left wing to identify themselves so that they could be cut down by the corrupt communist machine. The Minister now comes out in defence of these people. I ask the Minister now to realise the nature of the things that he has been saying. He does believe in union democracy. He does believe that members of a union should have their right to express their views, whether on a ballot or on an election of officers, free of intimidation and corruption. Now he is saying they cannot be free of corruption unless they are prepared to undergo individual intimidation. This is not a fair thing to ask, even of 250 miserable unionists. Again I use the Minister's term because he used it and not because I would consider them miserable myself. I know that if they did this kind of thing - if they stood out against the organised corrupt communist minority - their lives would be miserable indeed. 
The Minister says quite wrongly that I have been a member of the National Civic Council. I would not be ashamed if I had been, but as a matter of fact I have not been a member of the NCC. I say again without any reservation that I have had some objectives which seemed to me the same as those of members of the NCC. What is wrong with that? Why does it not have a right to organise in the unions? Does the Minister give this right only to the communist minority? I believe that when the Minister thinks of what he is doing here he will think again. 
Last Sunday in the Sydney Domain there was a meeting to support a protest in relation to the treatment that had been accorded to  Mr Valentyn  Moroz, a Ukrainian in the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. This gentleman, who is a distinguished Ukrainian historian, has been gaoled on a political charge, not for any activity but simply for expressing a political opinion. He was gaoled, I think under the provisions of section 62 of the Soviet Constitution.  His  gaoling is a monstrous violation of normal human freedoms and he has been subjected to very bad treatment. It may be that he will die in gaol. He is at present engaged in a hunger strike. 
There should be throughout the world some kind of protest on behalf of this distinguished and heroic man. I believe that the Association of Ukrainian Organisations has written to all members of Parliament in regard to this matter. I have a copy of that organisation's letter. It asks us to do 3 things. First, we are asked to arrange a consultation with the Ambassador of the USSR in Canberra and the Department of Foreign Affairs in order to obtain information and to take steps necessary to prevent cruel and inhuman punishment. The members of that organisation are concerned with this individual case. Secondly, they ask us to advise the government of the USSR of our continuing interest in this case and request that, in the event of his release from custody, an exit visa be accorded to him to allow him to leave the USSR if he so desires. Thirdly, they ask that the Government inform itself fully of the circumstances of this case. 
I support these 3 requests. I believe that the Government itself would support them. I say this because, although members from this side of the House were present at the protest meeting at the Sydney Domain on Sunday and although no members from the Government side of the House were present, I understand that 2 members from the Government side of the Parliament have associated themselves with this protest. One of the Government supporters to whom I refer is  Senator Mulvihill  and the other, I am so informed, is the  Deputy  Prime Minister,  Dr J.  F. Cairns. I am informed that he has made some kind of protest in this regard but, as it happens - it is unusual in the case of a  Deputy  Prime Minister- his protest has passed unregarded and no publicity has been accorded to it. If the  Deputy  Prime Minister is honest in this, as I am sure he must be - we should give him the credit of being honest in this - I am sure that he would like publicly to be associated with this protest. It is not good enough, as he would know, just to do something secretly and in private. If a protest is being made by a member of the Government, by a Government Minister, by a  Deputy  Prime Minister, it should be accorded the whole weight of the Australian Government. I would think, therefore, that the requests made are very reasonable ones. 
I hope that the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly),  who is sitting at the table, will take the opportunity to intervene in this debate and say that the Government will officially back up the initiative taken by the  Deputy  Prime Minister in relation to this matter. I suggest that the Government might do 3 things in this regard. I put these suggestions to the Government and I ask that they be put into effect. First, I suggest that the Government might make known to the Australian people where it stands in relation to this case and in relation to cases like it. If this were an isolated case one could perhaps take' less notice of it, but one knows that it is typical of the circumstances of millions who are suffering under Soviet tyranny. I suggest that the Government should - perhaps it will - associate itself with this protest publicly so that the Australian people can know where it stands in relation to cases such as this. The second thing I ask is more concrete and definite. I ask that the Government make an official protest at the United Nations General Assembly which will be convened in a month or so. The USSR has been consistently evading and violating the covenants it has signed in regard to human rights. The Soviet Union has demonstrated the most utter hypocrisy in regard to human rights and I think it is time that the Government officially associated itself with a protest in the United Nations. 
I know that the Minister at the table will not be able to give an opinion off the cuff but I ask him to see that this matter is referred to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  so that when the Parliament meets for the Budget session he will be able to tell us that an official protest has been made to the United Nations. It is easy to say and I know that it will be said: 'Why has this not been done earlier when the USSR has been consistently violating its international obligations in the United Nations?' This would be a powerful thing to say, but I do not think it would bear much weight, I have represented Australia at the United Nations on 2 occasions. On both occasions I have come under censure from the Soviet authorities because I made this kind of protest in the United Nations. I ask now that the Government officially bring to the notice of the United Nations the consistent violation of all human rights which the Soviet Union is perpetrating against its .own citizens inside its own borders. This is something which concerns all humanity. If we are to make this kind of protest against one nation, let us make it against the Soviet Union. I know that when these matters are raised the represenatives of the Soviet Union in the United Nations in the past have used the elegant phrase: 'Let them keep their pig snouts out of our Soviet garden'. This is what they have said. I believe that because we have bowed down to this kind of Soviet intransigance we have lost a great deal of the moral authority which should be ours. Here is a concrete thing which we can do and which we should do. 
The third point I make is that the Government should use its resources to see that people in Australia are better informed about factual developments inside the Soviet Union. Censorship in the Soviet Union even extends sometimes to prohibition of normal Soviet newspapers reaching us in time. This is intolerable. We have an embassy in Moscow and it should be used to see that proper factual information about what is happening inside the Soviet Union reaches us here in Australia. We open our gates in Australia to Soviet representatives - and perhaps rightly so. But if we do this we are entitled to ask for equal opportunity for our diplomats and our representatives - whether they be private citizens or government officials - inside the borders of the Soviet Union itself. We are entitled to ask for freedom of movement. We are entitled to ask for- 
I think the House should be grateful for the practical wisdom of the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  and the insight of the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  who see the desirability of maintaining the family farm as part of the whole structure of the Australian rural economy and, indeed, of Australian society. I was prompted to speak in this debate by recognition of the need for change in the dairy industry as in every industry. One honourable member said to me a moment ago, almost jokingly: 'Are you going to talk about the dairy farms which are being phased out in your area?' Well, historically he had something there. When people in Australia ceased to import butter from England one of the notable dairy farms, perhaps the most notable, was at Mona Vale in my electorate -Foley's farm.  Mrs Foley's  butter in those days commanded a deserved premium on the Australian market. The Foley family subsequently took up dairy farming on a bigger scale on the North Coast. It is interesting to see how these changes occur and how they are carried through. 
The dairy industry should be adjusting perhaps more quickly than it has done in the past. Milk proteins and milk solids become comparatively much more important than the butterfat. I say 'comparatively' advisedly. This process of adjustment has been inhibited to some extent by the unwise maintenance of such things as the margarine legislation. The North Coast of New South Wales - a dairying area - is much more suitable for the production of a milk oriented towards milk solids rather than a milk oriented towards butterfat. The contrary is true of the dairying industry in Victoria. This is very largely a function of the temperature which applies in those places and the effect of the temperature on the cows. Nobody is suggesting that any milk is entirely milk solids or any milk is entirely butterfat. It is a case of orientation towards one or the other. I do express pleasure that at last we are going to get rid of some of these rather absurd restrictions on margarine. If margarine is made from Australian oils the Australian farmer has a proper interest in it. As I have said, perhaps we have been a little unwise in maintaining for so long the illogical restrictions and quotas on margarine. I can remember when these quotas were introduced - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! I think the honourable member is getting very wide of the Bill. I have been fairly tolerant up to now. 
In that case, I will accede to your views,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  and I will say simply that I am glad that the members of the Australian Country Party who have spoken have such a firm, practical knowledge of this subject and have given us the lead, and I am glad also that the quotas are being phased out. 
I will detain the House for only a few moments. It does seem to me that one could take the best possible view of the motive of the Government in this matter. Ail I can say is that the road to Canberra, like the road to hell, is so very often paved with good intentions. The protestations of the Government in regard to this matter- 
In a few weeks the Government will be considering its Budget. I should like to make a plea for the inclusion in that consideration of one special group. Last week the representatives of the Supporting Fathers organisation waited upon the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden).  These people are representatives of widowers with dependent children and of deserted husbands with dependent children. I believe that this group is worthy of special support and urgent consideration. Unlike widows, deserted wives or divorced women these people receive no help from the Government whatsoever. I believe that they would have been next in line for relief if we had remained in power. However, I do not take this on a party line at all. I ask the Government to give special consideration to the needs of these people. 
It is a terrible thing for a husband to lose his wife by death, particularly a young wife, because it is only comparatively young women who have dependent children. It is bad for a husband to be deserted and for his family to be left without a mother. When a husband receives this emotional shock why should we make it almost impossible for him to proceed to hold his family together? Why should he inflict on him. the added grief of the family being broken up because he cannot meet the financial commitment of keeping it together. A man has his job. If he does not have his job he has no income. If he has a small income he cannot afford a housekeeper. How can a deserted husband leave his children unprotected, unguarded and not looked after at all. For that man there may be no help available. He may be lucky and have a mother who can take in her grandchildren, or a sister who can take in her nephews and nieces. He may have some relative or friend who can look after them. That is second best, but it is better than having to relinquish them and allow them to go into some kind of institution. 
These men do need help. In these days of 'women's lib', or whatever we may like to call it, the widowers and deserted husbands should be placed on the same footing as the widows and deserted wives. It may be only an interim solution. The operation of the means test will prevent such men ever drawing pensions and getting into a rich category, but they do merit or deserve this special help. I make the plea to the Government that in this Budget some recognition be made of the special needs of these people - the supporting fathers, the widowers with dependent children and the deserted husbands with dependent children. They should be at the top of the priority list. I commend this cause to the Government. 

 -Mr Chairman, under the provisions of rule 16 I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the member for Mackellar moving forthwith the following motion: 
That this Joint Sitting of the Houses should not be finally adjourned until either it has adequately discussed the present economic and industrial situation in Australia or else the Government has indicated that both Houses will meet next week to discuss these matters. 

 -Mr Chairman, under rule 1 4 1 move: 
That the Chairman's ruling be disagreed with. (The honourable member for Mackellar having submitted his objection in writing)- 

 -Mr Chairman, this sitting comes about in consequence of a Proclamation, as you have said. That Proclamation detailed what we should do. But it did not detail what we should not do. Indeed, sir, the Chief Justice a few days ago criticised the terms of the Proclamation as setting out in too much detail what in fact we should do. We are constrained by our ad hoc Standing Rules and by the Senate Standing Orders. But even the Senate Standing Orders do not confine the discussion. It is true that we cannot make here valid laws outside the terms of the Proclamation, but there is nothing to prevent us from discussing what we want to do. Surely, we can make resolutions about our own adjournment; it would be monstrous if we could not make such resolutions now. I put to you,  Mr Chairman,  the general principle that unless it violates a special requirement, every meeting is master of its own business. So, there is no specific requirement which precludes this discussion. 

 Sir, I will be brief. We are meeting as all members of Parliament. It is true that we are not the Houses of Parliament in the normal sense. But the matters that I propose in this motion are relevant to our main responsibilities as members of Parliament and we would be recreant to those responsibilites if we did not consider them in the present frightening state of crisis. It is true that I have proposed 2 alternatives: Either that we should discuss these matters adequately nowand whatever personal inconvenience it may be to members, we should stay and discuss them - 
I move: 
That the ruling be dissented from. 
I will put the motion in writing. 

 Mr Speaker, I have moved dissent from your ruling because it seems to me that standing order 1 10 is perfectly clear and specific. It states: 
A motion of which notice has been given or an amendment which expresses a censure of or want of confidence in the Government and is accepted by a Minister as a censure or want of confidence motion or amendment shall, until it is disposed of by the House, take precedence of all other business. 
I point out to the House that the phrase 'A motion of which notice has been given' has been satisfied. A motion was moved and notice of it was given by the  Clerk  at the Table. It was accepted by a Minister- I understand that the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  is a Minister- and it was accepted as a censure or want of confidence motion. I heard him say at the table a moment ago - 

 -Mr Speaker, I have the call. 
-On a point of misrepresentation,  Mr Speaker  - 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  proposed: 
That the question be now put. 

 -Mr Speaker - 
Question put: 
That the question be now put. 
-! have been informed that the Australian Broadcasting Commission announcer during the division on my motion of dissent from your ruling referred to the Opposition's 'delaying tactics' in this House. I think this is an utter misrepresentation. The Government called us together for certain business which has been concluded but the Opposition has tried all the time to bring before the House the things which should have been brought before it, namely, the economic and industrial situations. Everything that I have said - 
-And everything I have done has been for that purpose. 
The question is that the House do now adjourn. 
-There are 2 matters, one involving the corruption of a Minister, which should be brought before this House. I shall speak to the Press afterwards since I am not allowed to speak in the House. It is absolutely disgraceful that the House - 
The House is a joke. 
This is an absolute disgrace. 
The House is adjourned. 
It is an absolute disgrace, what has happened here. 
There are 2 matters, one involving the corruption of a Minister which I have not been allowed -  (Mr Speaker left the Chair) 

 -Mr Speaker, I thank the House for its indulgence. I regret, as all honourable members must regret, any disorder in this House, or any commotion.  Sir, the  circumstances were these: The Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  had moved- 

 - Mr Speaker, your rulings were wrong, and I am entitled to - 
-Sir I am - 
Thank you,  Mr Speaker.  You have made certain accusations against me. I am entitled in all fairness to reply to them, and I will do so very briefly. I say that your conduct in the chair was wrong. You acted in violation of Standing Orders, and I am prepared to prove it 
-I have only one point to make in this debate, but I believe that it is an important one. I am amazed that it was not made earlier. Foreign aid, whether it is provided through the Asian Development Bank or anything else, has to be paid for through our foreign funds. We have, it is true, sizeable but rapidly dwindling reserves. We are now in the red to the extent of $2,000m a year in our foreign funds. Whatever aid we give has to come out of those funds. We will be giving $ 1 8m. We will be giving it really in the long run not from our own resources but from our overseas creditors ' money. 
The Bank to which we are subscribing has as a program a contribution by member countries of US$525m. That is a small amount but there is another source of money available. The wealth situation has changed. 
In the foreign exchange business we of the Western world used to think of ourselves as being the rich people who are doing the giving. We are now the poor people. The wealth is now to be found in the oil countries. The oil countries, which received help previously, have some kind of relationship or consanguinity with the people who need help. The oil countries have received a windfall of an extra $30,000m a year. It is from them that the subvention should be now coming. They are the rich countries, not the poor ones. We are the poor countries in international exchange, not the rich ones. There should be a complete rethinking on this aspect. The oil countries, which have received a windfall of tens of thousands of millions of dollars a year, should be coming to the party for their cousins- we are giving it to their cousins- and they should be doing so not with a miserable US$525m but should be thinking in terms of providing ten or twenty times as much per year. They should be helping their cousins from their windfall. 
I say that we should be putting the hard word on the Shah of Iran when he comes to Australia and telling him that from the immense riches that have come to him through the oil windfallthrough the monopolistic manipulations in which he has engaged- he has a moral responsibility to find not a small amount of money, as this is, but a large amount of money for not one year but every year for the people of Asia- he is an Asian- whom it is his first responsibility to help. I support, as does my Party, this token. But I repeat that we are not really giving our own money; we are giving our creditors' money because our foreign balances are dwindling and on current account we are now going into the red to the extent of $2,000m a year. We are not giving our own money. We are like, as it were, the directors of the Mainline Corporation making a tremendous gift to the arts in Australia- not giving their own money but giving their creditors' money. This is what we are doing and we are making big fellows of ourselves for doing it. 
While this is happening there is money available. The world has changed. The old concept of the poor countries and the rich countries has changed. We have lost; they have won. They are up about $30,000m every year. While necessarily they will use a great deal of this money for the support of their own people and the raising of the living standards of their own people they owe it to the world to take a sizable slice of this and use it for raising the living standards of their own neighbours, the people for whom this Asian Development Bank was founded and whom it is trying to help. I say that next week when the Shah is in Australia we should put the hard word on him and see that the Shah realises his responsibility from his overflowing coffers now to allocate some thousands of millions of dollars every year for the support of his less fortunate Asian neighbours who do not happen to have oil. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
I take this first opportunity available to me to put on record the sequence of events on 23 August. I would have preferred to do this sooner and to do it at a time when the proceedings were being broadcast. I know that what I am going to say will not be easy to follow except by those who know the procedure of the Parliament. But I think that it is important that it should be put on record and made quite clear in Hansard. This is important not for me but because I believe that the proper adherence to the forms of this House and the rights of members is something which we should all guard. 
I turn now to the events of 23 August. I should like first to compliment Hansard on the accuracy of its report. There was a great deal of disturbance in the House at the time and it cannot have been easy for Hansard to get the report accurate. 
I believe it has succeeded in so doing. I turn to the events on that afternoon. At about half-past 3 I was told that in the Australian Broadcasting Commission broadcast of proceedings some improper references had been made to me. When I heard this I went to you,  Mr Speaker.  I mentioned that I had been misrepresented and you, as is right and proper and as is your custom, said you would give me an opportunity to make an explanation. At about 10 minutes to 4 o 'clock I did endeavour to do this. There was some misunderstanding, which I can well understand in the confusion. Although you gave me the call I did not have a chance to proceed. Instead, the motion of the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  took precedence. He moved that the House at its rising adjourn until Tuesday, 17 September, and that motion was duly carried. So the House at that stage decided when it would meet after its rising for the adjournment. Later in the day I again endeavoured to put the misrepresentation and you will see that on page 1 166 of Hansard. But once again I did not succeed in doing so because the Leader of the House moved 'That the House do now adjourn'. He spoke for some 10 minutes on that question and concluded with these words: 
Having said so much I move: 
That the question be now put. 
You,  Mr Speaker,  very properly refused to take that motion at that time saying quite accurately: 
I promised to deal with a personal explanation pertaining to matters outside this House. 
You then called me and I made my explanation and you,  Sir, were  good enough to support what I had said in regard to the misrepresentation saying that the ABC broadcaster had been instructed that in future he was not to repeat the performance. This is all recorded in Hansard. 
I turn now to the crucial page of Hansard, page 1 168. If you will look at Hansard,  Sir, you  will see that having supported me in the misrepresentation you then said, quite properly and quite accurately: 
The question is that the House do now adjourn. 
The previous question, the gag, had not been put, even much less carried by the House. I rose as was my right to speak on the adjournment. This is the undoubted right of every member. But I got in only 6 lines in Hansard when you,  Sir, ordered  me to sit down. I say that at this point you were wrong because there was no power in the  Speaker  to do this. It would have been entirely contrary to the practices of the House for the  Speaker  to prevent a member from making a speech on the adjournment when there had been no gag carried, no motion carried by the House that the question be now put. At that stage,  Sir, you  went- if I may say so with all respect- wrong and the Hansard shows it. It is shown at page 1 168 of Hansard. But,  Sir, you  not only did that. Hansard records you as saying: 

 Sir, at that stage you had put me in a position where I could no longer, within the forms of the House, continue to speak on the adjournment. I know that there was confusion. I recognise that there was a certain amount of cross talk across the chamber at this stage. I recognise that members were hurrying to get away to their VIP planes. I know all this was so. 
-That is quite correct. It is not a point of order,  Sir, I  would hope that you will take some notice of the frivolous kind of points which the Leader of the House is taking. You know it is not an honest thing that he has done. Let me go further. At that stage,  Sir, my  right to speak on the adjournment had been wrongfully taken away from me. I have never known any comparable procedure in this House where a member is speaking on the adjournment and has a right to speak on the adjournment. We have a situation in which a member speaks for 6 lines only and the  Speaker  without any authority from the House sits him down, puts the question 'That the House do now adjourn', and proceeds straight on to a decision on the matter. 

 Sir, I think that you could understand my indignation at this stage. I had been trying, as you know, for all the day to raise the major questions of the economic and industrial difficulties which were then facing the country. They were and still are momentous. But at that stage the industrial difficulties were so bad that there was no transport to take members home by the normal aircraft and we had to resort to VIP planes to get back to our electorates. What was happening to us was perhaps of small moment except insofar as it was indicative of what was happening to other people in greater numbers and perhaps where more important things were involved and greater inconveniences were being suffered. 

 Sir, I have endeavoured to put the actual sequence of events as I saw them and I think you can understand my indignation. You had adjourned the House, and the House having been adjourned it is true that I went on to speak.  Sir, I  felt that in honour I could have done nothing else. 
-This Bill is, of course, part of the cost of the Labor Government. It is said that the country has to meet the costs of the Labor Government. I do not think that when the Australian people elected the Labor Party to government they realised how fierce those costs were going to be. It is said that because of this increase in the cost of running the mail services postage has to go up. 1 think it has gone up in the course of this Government's short and inglorious term of office by something over 50 per cent when we take into account the reduction in the weight of a letter and the present proposed increase in postal charges. I do not think wages have gone up as much as that, so there must be less efficiency than there was. With increasing mechanisation and technology one would have expected costs to go up a great deal less than wages. This shows the fundamental inefficiency of the Government. 
I have never been an advocate of low wages. I am an advocate of high wages with high productivity but the trouble is that in this mail section there has been a continuous loss of productivity. I do not believe that this is due to the average postal employee. Most of us know our own local postal employees and are on friendly terms with them. We believe they do a good job insofar as they are allowed to do so. But there are 2 things that stop them. The first is the inherent inefficiency of the Government and the second is the industrial disruption imposed upon them, when very often they themselves do not want this disruption, by their own militant unions who are making disruption not to help their members but in order to break the whole social system. It is an unhappy fact the postal unions have to a large extent fallen under the control of Marxists. I want to give an example of something which is only a few months old and yet is very relevant. Shortly before the elections the then PostmasterGeneral, now the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  went to the Redfern Mail Exchange to meet the employees. He was not accompanied by his own officials from that Exchange. He excluded them from the meeting with the men although I believe he had with him one person from his own central office. 
I believe it to be true and I can only say - 
It is not a point of order at all. 
It  is  not a point of order at all. If the Minister wants to make a personal explanation let him make it at the end of my speech. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! The honourable member will resume his seat while the point of order is being taken. I will make the decision whether it is a point of order or not. 
I would not have risen to speak except for an incident in the House today which I think I should draw to your attention,  Mr Speaker.  I spoke on the postal legislation and I informed the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  that I intended to speak for only 10 minutes. I did speak for longer than that but that was because I was interrupted from time to time with points of order, etc. A few moments ago the Leader of the House said to me: 'Look, you spoke for 15 minutes before those points of order arose'. That was untrue and Hansard will show it to be untrue. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it a fact that in previous wars, including Korea, Australian servicemen have been given permission to accept and wear foreign awards for gallantry. 
Is it also a fact that, prior to going out of office, the previous Government prepared a submission in relation to the Vietnam war recommending that Australian servicemen be permitted to accept and wear up to four foreign awards in accordance with normal practice of the Armed Services of the Queen. 
Did Australian servicemen in Vietnam gain 416 United States awards and 604 Vietnamese awards; if so, what are the details. 
Did  Senator Bishop,  acting on behalf of the Minister for Defence, intimate in December 1973 that Australian servicemen would not be permitted to accept or wear foreign awards in relation to the Vietnam war. 
If so, was this a break with accepted custom due to a desire to downgrade all servicemen who took part in the Vietnam war. 
I think that this is a bad Utile Bill. It is bad because it will have the effect of preventing the conversion of road vehicles to liquefied petroleum gas. I think also that it is not a Bill of tremendous significance, although it may have more significance than would appear at first sight. There are 2 reasons why we should see that progressively road vehicles are converted from petrol to liquefied petroleum gas, particularly in the capital cities. The first, a minor reason perhaps, is that by so doing we would reduce our present dependence upon imported fuel. I think that is a minor reason because there are other uses for any LPG which we produce, most of which is being exported mainly to Japan. The major reason is that the Bill is a blow against the antipollution campaign. It is an outrage on the environment. This is particularly true of the capital cities. 
One of the great troubles about the use of motors in capital cities, in large congregations of population, is the possible smog and pollution that they cause. Tins can be devastating as it has been, for example, in Los Angeles on the Californian coast of the United States. It could be bad in Sydney and I think in Melbourne also. Perhaps pollution has not yet reached devastating proportions, but it is something which gives concern and which inevitably is associated with the internal combustion engine. In the future I hope that more and more of our transport in the cities will be performed by something other than the private car powered by an internal combustion engine. Perhaps a greater shift to public transport would be desirable. A greater shift towards electric vehicles would be desirable. The shift towards electric vehicles is not, in practical terms, available at present. The technology is here for some, but not for all, vehicles to be converted. 
If we convert from petrol to LPG we can use our existing vehicles. The conversion is a comparatively minor matter with perhaps something of the order of $400 being required. But the existing vehicle can be used and the existing type of vehicle can be used. There are small penalties. In particular there is the loss in a car of some of the boot space by reason of the larger tanks that have to be installed, although I think that probably with good design we can get over at least some or all of that trouble. 
I am unable to answer my honourable friend. Perhaps he will tell us later in the debate. 
Frankly I do not know. I only know the way in which we should go. I am glad the honourable member is interested. I think it is constructive to take an interest in what is going on elsewhere, but I am primarily interested in what we should do in Australia. What we should do in Australia is to encourage the conversion of city used vehicles particularly, because it is in the cities that the control of pollution is important. We should encourage the conversion of petrol driven vehicles to use liquefied petroleum gas. This Bill discourages that. That is why it is a bad little Bill. 
It is said, perhaps, that the revenue is needed. The existing revenue is not needed because the existing use of LPG for vehicles is minimal and not enough to affect the position. If we are talking of future revenue through the expansion of the use of LPG in vehicles the Bill is bad because it is reducing the possibility of that conversion. I think this is a serious matter. If we have to forego revenue that is a proper price- it is a very small price in terms of dollars- to pay for the improvement of the environment and for the improvement of living conditions in our cities and centres of population where the car exhaust is the main contributor towards atmospheric pollution. I think all honourable members will be familiar with the material that was put out by our own Bureau of Transport Economics last April, tables 7, 8 and 9 of which set out exhaust emissions. One can see the tremendous decrease in exhaust pollution if LPG rather than petrol is used. Perhaps I am unfair in selecting this example from the Bureau's own figures, but a 
Chevrolet using petrol will produce an index figure of 39.6 for carbon monoxide. That figure falls to 2.9 when LPG is used- a most significant decrease. I admit that I have chosen from the table a rather dramatic figure, but in general one can say that by using LPG we can probably reduce atmospheric pollution by a factor of two or three, and that is important. 
I am not in a position to say. I do not think so, but I am not in a position to turn my mind to that. Aircraft are not terribly important for the cities. They travel over larger areas and longer distances. What we want to get at is the car which is polluting in the city itself. It is polluting down at ground level where the emission is most likely to affect human beings. 
If we are serious about improving the environment we should be thinking in terms of encouraging in every way the conversion to LPG of petrol driven vehicles, particularly in the capital cities. I think the Government has been a little weak, perhaps, in giving way here to Treasury advice. I remember that when I was a Minister in a previous government the Treasury brought forward a proposal for the Budget that we should introduce similar measures. The Liberal-Country Party Government rejected that proposal, as it should have. It would have given more revenue but we really believed in preserving the environment. Consequently we acted in the way we did and did not adopt the Treasury proposal for this rather regressive and undesirable tax. One of the worst features of this Bill is that referred to by the honourable member for Fisher  (Mr Adermann)  the method of collection. In the Committee stage I shall move an amendment which is directed to curing that particular defect in the Bill. The amendment has been circulated and I think it is now on the table of the House for people to see. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.1S p.m. 
-Before the luncheon recess I was pointing out that it was entirely desirable that we should encourage the conversion of city motor cars to the use of LPG for the purpose of avoiding or minimising pollution. Of course this is particularly important for vehicles like taxis which do a large mileage in the cities. These Bills that are before lis discourage that conversion and as such they are a blow at all the aspirations of the environmentalists and those who believe that the conditions of life in the cities should be improved. 
The amount of money to be raised by these Bills is not in itself so important. The tax to be imposed is 2 cents per litre. As honourable members will remember there are  492  litres to one gallon. The tax itself is not big. But what is a real deterrent to conversion is the method of collection. I draw the attention of the House particularly to the provisions of clauses 6 and 7 of the Liquefied Gas (Road Vehicle Use) Tax Collection Bill. Under these clauses- it is almost incredible- the Government is proposing that every owner of a vehicle which uses LPG should have to put in a monthly return of the amount that he has used. Now I ask you, what would a car owner whose car runs on petrol think if he had to put in to the Government a monthly return every month of how much petrol he had used during that month? He would have to take a dipping of his tank at the start of the month and a dipping of his tank at the end of the month and tot up how much he bought at every garage. The thing is incredible. But this is what the Government is asking the man who has converted to LPG to do. Just look at the provisions of clauses 6 and 7 of the Bill. If he does not do this, if he furnishes 'a return that is false or misleading in any material particular', he is liable to a fine of $ 1 ,000. This is not something to be sneezed at. 
Perhaps the Government has inserted this provision in the Bill inadvertently or by mistake. I am willing to give the Government the credit of believing that it has acted not through malice but simply through incompetence. Embedded in this legislation is a clause which makes it almost impossible for the ordinary man who owns a vehicle in the city to convert to LPG. I do not know whether this is the purpose of the Bill. I do not think it is. I do not think the Government knew what it was doing. It has simply included in the Bill this quite unworkable provision. I ask anybody who is thinking of converting to LPG whether it is worth going to this trouble in order to avoid this proposed penalty of $1,000. Really, one would have thought that the Government, which professes to be environmentally minded, would have avoided putting this kind of thing into a Bill. 
There is an alternative. I shall propose an amendment to the House which will get over this bad feature of the Bill. This is a matter which will be dealt with in Committee and I shall speak to it in detail in Committee. My proposal is in essence this: That in place of paying this tax on the LPG used motorists should have the option, if they want to, of paying annually an amount of, say $30 tax in advance for the vehicle for the year. This amount is based on the average use of a vehicle of 5,000 or 6,000 miles a year. If you calculate the LPG required, remembering that there are approximately 4Vi litres to the gallon and the tax on a litre is to be 2c, the tax comes to a little under $30. So this provides for the average vehicle to pay an amount that is just about a line ball; it neither reduces nor increases the tax liability. But it will be said, with some justice: What about the people who use their vehicles a lot? Will they not get out of the tax? Yes, I hope they will. 
It is the owners who use their vehicles a lot in the city whom one wants to help, particularly taxi drivers. One would hope that taxis, which are one of the main polluters in the city, would be able to convert to LPG and find it economical to do so under this kind of arrangement. If a taxi converts to LPG it will lose some of its boot space. I am afraid this might be inevitable. I hope it will not be, but I am afraid that the LPG tank will take up a fair bit of the boot. I hope we will have a look at that problem. But one should encourage people like taxi drivers in the city to convert to the use of LPG and one should give a financial incentive to do so. 
The Government is spending large amounts of money on the environment, and rightly so. We approve this; we applaud it. But the dollar lost in forgoing a little revenue on LPG which a taxi might use would be very much more productive in terms of improving on the environment than the average dollar that the Government is spending under this heading. As I have said, when we get to the Committee stage I shall move my amendment. I hope it will commend itself to the Government. It is something which will not really much affect revenue one way or the other but I think that it will remove from the Bill the obnoxious effect of clauses 6 and 7 which in their present form virtually make it impracticable for most people to convert their vehicles from petrol to LPG. Again, from the point of view of the environmentalist this is what we want to encourage in the centre of the cities where the motor car exhaust emissions are one of the main sources of atmospheric pollution. 
-I want to take this opportunity of pointing out to the Committee the impact of clause 6 so that what I say on clause 7 and on my proposed new clause 7a will be understandable. Clause 6 reads: 
Tax payable in respect of the use of liquefied gas used for the purpose of propelling a road vehicle is payable by the person who was the owner of the liquefied gas immediately before it was so used. 
That clause means that the person who is the owner of the gas in the tank of the vehicle which uses it is liable for the tax. That is what the clause says, and the impact of it will become more apparent when we speak on clause 7 in a moment. I just wanted to draw the attention of the Committee to the impact and meaning of clause 6. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 7 (Returns). 
Clause 7 reads: 7. (1) Where, in any month, liquefied gas is used for the purpose of propelling a road vehicle, the person who is liable to pay the tax in respect of the use of that liquefied gas- that is, the person in whose tank it is- shall, within 28 days after the close of the month or within such further period as the Comptroller, in special circumstances, allows, furnish to a Collector, in accordance with a form, and in a manner, determined by the Comptroller, a return relating to that use of the liquefied gas. 
a person shall not furnish a return that is false or misleading in a material particular. 
Penalty: $1,000. 
Clause 7 is a clumsy clause which I think invalidates all the purposes of the Government in bringing this Bill down. I must agree with the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  that it would not be possible to apply to liquefied gas the same manner of excise collection as is applied in relation to petrol. I have never said that it was possible, and I think the Minister was rather raising up a bogey in order to knock it down when he made the suggestion that any such thought was in my mind or indeed in the mind of any member of the Opposition. The Opposition does not believe that it is possible to collect excise on liquefied gas for road use in the same way as one collects excise on petrol, but it does not follow that because this is so we should adopt this rather clumsy expedient which the Government has put forward. What the Government is saying, in point of fact- and there is really no discretion with the collector in this regard because special circumstances are not the same as a general amnesty- is that the collector has to have a monthly return. The monthly return has to be in accordance with a form and the form has to specify how much liquefied gas was used on the road during that time. There is no way for the owner who is doing this on a monthly basis to find this out except by keeping a detailed account of what he has put into his tank, looking at what is in his tank at the start of the month and what is in his tank at the end of the month. 
So what the Government is providing in this Bill in so many words is administratively ridiculous. It is no good for the Minister to say that I am simply saying that the officials who drew up the Bill are inefficient. I am not concerned with who drew up the Bill; I am concerned with what is in the Bill. It is no use for the Minister to hide behind his officials in this way and say it is their fault and not his, as he was doing a moment ago. Forget who drew up this Bill. The Government is responsible for it and the Government has brought it into the Parliament, and I say it is adminstratively ridiculous. The effect of this is going to be to stop or slow down the conversion to LPG. The Minister was perfectly right a moment ago when he said that it would be only a slow conversion, that there were costs involved. Of course there are costs involved, and of course it will be a slow conversion, but that is a reason for endeavouring to speed it up, not a reason for endeavouring to slow it down. I think he does the Opposition a little less credit when he fails to appreciate that it was we who said at the start that it was the city that was important as far a pollution was concerned. It is really only in the city that these delivery points for liquefied petroleum gas are likely to be developed. 
The Minister is quite right when he says the transport costs are big, but he is quite wrong when he says that there have to be hundreds of delivery points in the city. For example, with a taxi fleet- and the taxi fleets would be the ones to be looked at particularly- there would have to be only a few distribution points. Because the owner of a vehicle is dependent on distribution points he will not convert to LPG if there is not a distribution point handy. That means that the conversion is going to be confined more or less to the city, for the time being at any rate. I regard the matter of conversion to LPG as a transition stage only. I hope that in 20 or 30 years, perhaps less, we will be talking, at least for the cities, in terms of electric vehicles which are entirely pollution free. But that time is not yet, and for the present we have got to rely on the conversion in the cities, for those cars which use the centre of the city so much, to a form of propulsion which does not give the same amount of pollution as the petrol engine does now. With existing technologyand I believe this is only a transitional phase- that means going to LPG. If we were to provide only that taxis and buses were to convert to LPG we would be reducing significantly the pollution occurring in the centres of the cities. Unhappily, we are not going to do away entirely with the pollution caused by automobile exhausts in the centre of our cities. But at least we should take sensible measures to reduce it. 
I think that the Minister for Overseas Trade lost the point entirely when he said: 'This will help the vehicles used on long distance runs to pay something less than they would have to pay if the full excise applied'. That is true enough. But is it not a small price to pay for improving the environment and for reducing atmospheric pollution in the cities? Of course it is. The Government quite rightly- I praise the Government for it- is saying that it is spending money on reducing pollution and improving the environment. I am all for that. But the amount of revenue it would forgo by letting a vehicle refrain from paying the amount it otherwise would have to pay in excise above the $30 I have suggested would be more than made up by the saving in the amount it is spending on measures to improve the environment. The Government is being quite stupid in this regard. I have said how I worked out the figure of $30. That figure in itself is not sacrosanct; it is the principle that is sacrosanct. If there has to be a method of collection it should be one which does not impose on the motorist who converts to LPG the same kind of penalty as is involved in the Bill. If the Government wants to up the amount to $50 that is fair enough with me, but for heaven 's sake it should not let the Bill go through the Parliament in its present form because if that were to happen it would be the death knell to conversion to LPG. Surely we do not want that to happen as atmospheric pollution from automobile exhausts is a real problem in our inner cities and our great concentrations of populations. 
-I thank the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  for his remarks, but I do not think that he has helped the argument terribly much. I wish firstly to look at the details of clause 7 and of clause 8, which has not yet been before us for consideration but which the Minister mentioned. There are, as he said, 2 discretions given to the Comptroller. 
-I move: 
That the following new clause be inserted in the Bill: 7a. when any person who is liable to pay tax under this Act has paid an amount of 30 dollars by way of tax in advance and has nominated a vehicle in respect of such payment, then, for the remainder of the financial year during which such advance payment has been made, he shall be exempt from obligation for further tax or return in relation to the use of liquefied gas in such vehicle. 
This is a carefully drawn clause which confines the concession always to one vehicle. It is not suggested that under this clause the owner of a fleet of vehicles should get away with the payment of $30 for his whole fleet. However, in my view, $30 a vehicle is a fair thing. If the Government does not think $30 is a fair thing let it suggest $50 or some other sum it considers desirable. It will be no skin off my nose if it wishes to do that, but for heaven's sake let us have some amendment which does not erect, as this Bill erects, a formidable administrative barrier to discourage people from converting their vehicles from petrol to liquid petroleum gas. 
I suggest that this is of particular import when one considers the owners of vehicles which travel large mileages in central city areas. These are the people we should encourage to convert their vehicles to the use of LPG because it is in the city centres where there is a heavy vehicle population with a heavy population of people breathing vehicles emissions. It is in city areas that we want to convert to the use of LPG. We should encourage such conversion in this decade or so as a transitional period to the future use of electric driven vehicles, which, I am sure, will eventually come but which will not take over a major role as yet. I believe that even with present technology our inner city buses should be electric but one cannot hope with present technology to get a major conversion to electric private vehicles or even to electric taxis. For this reason I suggest a flat rate of payment, whether it be $30, $40, $50 or whatever figure the Government suggests to satisfy the insatiable requirements of the Treasury. Let the Government suggest a figure it considers fair and which allows for some administrative simplicity. 
Under the Bill as drawn by the Government, the owner of every vehicle- it might be even worse than that because the user of every vehicle is the person who is liable to pay the tax if he owns the gas in its tank at the time- has to make a return. No discretion at all resides with the comptroller which will save a person from making that monthly return. The Comptroller can only extend the time in which a person can submit the return. As the Minister said, under clause 8-1 make this passing reference to clause 8 in the same way as the Minister did- all that the Comptroller can do is to extend the time for payment. He cannot waive the payment or do anything like that because such provision is not made in the Bill and it would be contrary to the Bill if he were to do so. I suggest that the Government swallow its pride for once and accept a very reasonable amendment which does not strike at revenue; it really leaves the total revenue virtually unaffected. It may even increase it, but it is only a few dollars one way or the other. But this is not a question of dollars; it is a question of the administrative impediments in this Bill. Whether the Government means it- I give it the credit of not meaning it- these administrative impediments will seriously retard the already slow conversion of inner city vehicles from petrol drive to LPG drive. 
The Government has pretentions about being environmentally minded. No real money is involved in this amendment. No inequity is involved. Why cannot the Government swallow its pride for once and accept a reasonable amendment? If it wants to put up the ante from the $30 I suggest- this has been worked out on what the average vehicle owner would pay under the Government's proposal- let it do so, but whatever it does do not let us have the Bill in its present form. An alternative is available. Why does the Government not avail itself of it instead of doing what it is doing now- presenting us with a BUI which by its administrative complexity is effectively retarding what we should all want, namely, the quicker conversion of petrol-driven vehicles in the inner city areas to LPG. I give the Government credit for not meaning what it has done. 
I hesitate to correct the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  on points of law, but really what he has said to the Committee today is not only misleading, but is also, I am afraid, totally wrong. I am quite aware of the practice of the Comptroller-General in certain circumstances to have monthly returns deferred and submitted in a bunch of three or four or six. But this does not get away from the difficulty that they have to be monthly returns. The Minister is absolutely wrong when he says that 'special circumstances' might be interpreted so as to enable the small user to put in one return every 6 months or so, if I correctly recall what he said. This is not so under the drafting of the Bill. Under the Bill as drafted, the Comptroller has no such discretion. If this is what the Minister means, the Bill is wrongly drafted and the drafting should be corrected while we have time to do it. 
I refer to clause 7 ( 1 ). I think the Minister was perhaps a Utile out of order in rehashing a clause which we have already passed, but I will answer him only in relation to the matters which he himself has brought up. Clause 7(1) states that where, in any month, the tax falls due there shall be a form submitted within 28 days after the close of that month or within such further period as the Comptroller, in special circumstances, allows. Under the BUI as drafted, the Comptroller has no discretion to dispense with monthly forms. He can, it is true, in special circumstances say that monthly forms can be submitted in a block, but he has no discretion- the Minister is quite wrong in law- to say a small user need only put in one return every 6 months or so. I differ a little from the Minister in respect of the meaning of the phase 'in special circumstances'. Most of the users Will be small users. The Minister reckoned that special circumstances apply to perhaps 75 per cent or 80 per cent of the taxpayers and that ordinary circumstances apply to the other 20 per cent also. That is not my way of reading an Act of Parliament 
The Minister should really be more precise in matters of law. He probably had not had time to read the fine print of this Bill until he came into the House. I know he is busy; he has many other concerns in and out of this Parliament. I do not blame him for not having had time to read the fine print but I blame him for standing up in this Parliament and saying things which are, in point of fact, untrue. His interpretation of the law in respect of the small user- Hansard will show what he said- is wrong. That is all that can be said about the Minister's interpretation. He is just plain wrong. 
I have to repeat what I said earlier because the Minister has repeated himself in this regard. I do not object to the fact that the big user in the town will get a little bit of extra concession for converting to LPG because it is the big user in the town who, if he is using petrol, is the big polluter. What we should be concerned with now above everything else is doing something effective which will as quickly as possible reduce atmospheric pollution in our main city streets. I have seen readings referring to George Street, Castlereagh Street and Pitt Street in Sydney, and I have no doubt that similar readings could be taken in Little Collins Street in Melbourne, which show that the atmospheric pollution between the high rise buildings due to the exhaust emissions of motor cars- particularly carbon monoxide- is rising to danger levels. Every person who uses the centre of the city, whether he be a business man, a shopper or a passer throughthis means all the people of Sydney from time to time- has to be concerned with the use of LPG in place of petrol. With the use of LPG, the amount of carbon monoxide emitted by a vehicle using those streets may be divided by a factor up to ten. If some extra concession is given to the heavy users of these streets to convert to LPG, we will get so much more relief so much more quickly. 
Let the Government drop some of its pretence about being so environmentally minded. When something practical can be done about a matter which affects the environment, aU the Government does is wring its hands and say: 'Look, we might be losing a few dollars to the Treasury'. Now count up the dollars, how much is the loss going to be? It is negligible. I ask the Government just to do its sums, do a little bit of arithmetic and it will see that the loss to the Treasury about which it is talking will be quite miniscule compared with the money it is spending, and in many cases spending very rightly, on improving the environment. Here is something on which the good faith of the Government on the environmentalist issue is in question. Will the Government agree with the amendment, or will it stick to its really restrictive administrative arrangements which are in this Bill and which, if implemented, will infernally slow down the conversion of inner city vehicles using petrol to the use of LPG. I know we are not going to get every vehicle converted overnight. I know that what the Federal Government can do is strictly limited. But because it is strictly limited is all the more reason for doing what can be done and doing it quickly. The good faith of the Government on the issue of the environment is now in question. Or is its pride and its vanity, in trying to push everything and by steamrolling this measure through this House, greater than its concern for the environment? Well, the Government will decide this matter and the Government will tell the country one way or the other in a moment. 
Proposed new clause negatived. 
Remainder of Bill- by leave- taken as a whole. 
-I do not want to take up too much time of the House by referring to procedures in the House but I think that the protection of the rights of private members is fundamental to the operation of this House and therefore fundamental to democracy. For that reason I bring forward what I do tonight. On 19 September, as recorded in Hansard on page 1S79 and following pages, I was speaking to the Post and Telegraph Rates Bill (No. 2). I had spoken for only a few moments when the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  who in this House represents the PostmasterGeneral  (Senator Bishop)  and who was sitting at the table, interrupted me and took what he alleged to be a point of order. It seems to me on reading the Hansard record not really to be a point of order. However, he took what he alleged to be a point of order. 
He resented some things I had said and asked me to swear a statutory declaration in respect of them. He said: 
I want you to swear it now. Swear it now. 
He was a little incoherent. I said: 
Yes, of course I do. 
Immediately I had concluded my speech I found a justice of the peace and made the statutory declaration. I then tried at the earliest opportunitythis is recorded in Hansard- either to read it or to lay it on the table of the House. I was refused permission by the Government so to do. I propose now to read that statutory declaration. It states: 
-But you signed them. 
All right, the former Postmaster-General became a little incoherent in this debate. He was indignant at 2 statements I had made. I admit that I made them on the evidence that I was given, not having been present at the. meeting myself. The 2 statements were that although an officer from the central administration of the Postmaster-General's Department in Sydney was present no officer from the Redfern Mail Exchange was present at the mass meeting. This was a statement which the former Postmaster-General received with some indignation. I believe it to be a true statement but, as I said, I was not present at the meeting myself. However I was told by people who were present at the meeting that it was a true statement. 
-I am aware of that,  Sir. I  am referring now only to the declaration itself. I did not have this copy with me at the time, but the former Postmaster-General indignantly denied, as I understand it, that he had signed this declaration. 
He asked me to swear a statutory declarationa rather unusual request for one member to make of another, but which I acceded to- that I had received this information and I believed it to be true. I have a signed statement that it is true. I do not propose to give the former PostmasterGeneral the name of the person who signed that statement because I know that if I did he would go for the usual tactic of victimisation. However I ask the former Postmaster-General to reciprocate in kind for what I have done. He asked me to swear a statutory declaration. I have done so. I now ask him to sign a statutory declaration on the 2 matters that he has specifically denied in the debate. First I ask him to sign a statutory declaration that an official from his own Redfern Mail Exchange was present at the mass meeting held in the Redfern Mail Exchange and, if so, to name that person who was present. The second thing I ask him to sign in this statutory declaration is a statement that he did not sign the 8 demands which were served on him. He now has a copy of those demands. I ask him would he be good enough to return it to me now he has seen it and I will seek his leave to have the document incorporated in Hansard. Is that leave granted? 
I thank the House. That will save me the trouble of taking up the time of the House by reading it. If you will be4 good enough to look at page 1580 of Hansard,  Mr Speaker,  you will see that the former Postmaster-General asked me for a statutory declaration. Immediately before he did so I had said: 
I was not present at the meeting myself and I do not know of my own knowledge who was present. But I am willing to swear that senior officials gave me this information and they said that although - 
The Minister then interrupted me by saying: 
I want you to swear it now. Swear it now. 
I said: 
Yes, of course I do. 
Within the next few minutes and immediately I concluded my speech I wrote out in my own handwriting the statutory declaration and I got a justice of the peace to sign it. That declaration is now in due form. The original is signed. If the House so desires it is ready for laying on the table. I now ask the former Postmaster-General, since he issued the original challange- a most unusual thing for one member to do to another- to me to swear this declaration, to swear a declaration specifically on the 2 points that I have mentioned. First, let him swear that there was one of his officials from the Redfern Mail Exchange present at the mass meeting of men- I am told by senior officials that there was not- and, secondly, let him swear that he did not sign the demands served on him at that meeting. I have been told, circumstantially, that he actually waved the paper and said: 'I will sign'. But as to that, I can only say is that this has been reported to me. I have in my possession a signed letter with an address on it, and that I am willing to swear, but I am not willing to allow the Minister to know the name of the person who signed the letter so that the Minister can victimise him. I have a signed letter in my possession at the present moment saying that the Minister signed these demands. I ask the Minister whether he would be good enough, perhaps by tomorrow morning, to furnish me with that statutory declaration. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
What information is available as to the origin, nature, affiliations, orientation and operations of the World Peace Council. 
-I wish to make a personal explanation 
-I would like to be associated with this tribute to  Sir Eric  Harrison and to extend sympathy to his family. I did not know him personally in the early days, the turbulent days of the All for Australia League, and the time of the formation of the United Australia Party; but I knew of him, for nobody who lived in those times would have failed to know of him. I knew him both as an opponent in a by-election and as a colleague, and in both capacities he was tough and straightforward because that was the way Eric Harrison was. Everybody who knew him will remember him in those terms. From 1949 onwards he brought to this House a great deal of his own character and I think he was responsibe for a great deal of the ethos of this House. In the days after 193 1 he was one of the people who pulled Australia out of that terrible depression which some of us remember with so much disquiet. I would like to associate myself with this motion, to feel that I can say of one who was at some time an opponent that I found him a friend in this House, and I feel a great deal of loss at his passing. 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That the threat made by a Minister to a private member, as recorded at page 1728 of Hansard of 24 September 1974, be referred to the Committee of Privileges on the ground that it is a serious invasion of the right of members to speak freely in this House. 
-My question is directed to the Acting Prime Minister. I refer to the lender of last resort facilities which the Reserve Bank of Australia in its capacity as the central bank should normally accord to the banking system. Does the Minister realise the fundamental difference between the present Australian system and that which obtains, for example, with the Bank of England in the United Kingdom or with the various federal reserve banks in the United States of America? Does he consider that Australian practices in this regard could be improved either by amendment of the banking legislation or by a change in administrative practices? Does he realise that there is a widespread view that the present interest rate charged for these facilities by the Reserve Bank is too high and is responsible for at least part of the excessive interest rates current in other respects throughout the community? Finally, what rate is charged by the Reserve Bank to the various member banks for this facility? 
-This Budget was out of date before it was written. It has been by-passed by the flood of economic events, and is now almost irrelevant to the situation which confronts our nation. It is not only the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  whose thinking lags behind the times. Opposition speakers have talked about stagflation confronting us- a combination of stagnation and inflation, with prices rising and production in the doldrumsthe condition to which the Government brought Australia straight after its re-election in May. But here in October it is no longer stagflation which confronts us, but its more terrible twin, slumflation a combination of inflation and slump. Business has been squeezed into impotence, our overseas funds are ebbing away, unemployment greater than any in the last 20 years is already with us, and much heavier unemployment is in prospect. All the time inflation goes on and prices must soar to keep pace with costs. This is no longer stagflation- it must be recognised for what it is, slumflation. 
In the halcyon days before Labor got into government- when it was still the Oppositionits leaders delighted to castigate us for what they described as our 'stop-go' economic policy. Because we used both the brakes and the accelerator, as occasion required, we incurred their criticism but at least we kept the Australian economy moving forward at a relatively steady pace and we kept unemployment within relatively narrow bounds. I say 'relatively' because in the press of human affairs complete evenness is not practicable. Some variations of pace are inevitable but at least we kept these fluctuations within narrower limits than did most of the world over those two decades. But this Labor Government has done just the opposite. In the last 2 years, Australian inflation has been worse than that of most countries, prices have risen faster and unemployment has worsened more rapidly. 'Stop-go' indeed! Rather the Government changes policy from day to day, almost from hour to hour, denying now the principles which they proclaimed immutable only a few minutes ago. Nobody knows what it will do next, and the whole country suffers from its confusion. 'Stop-go' indeed! Rather it is like when the traffic light shows green and the constable at the crossroads is at the same time giving you the stop sign. 
But when all is said and done, the Budget is not the sole or even the principle determinant of the economic climate. The deterioration was in train before the Budget was presented, and even though the Budget may aggravate our troubles, there are more massive and sustained forces at work. I am not one of those who believe that the level of Government spending is the main cause of our current inflation, and I do not join in any appeal to cut it back in total. Indeed, in the period of slumflation which we are now entering, the stimulus of public expenditure may well be justified as a measure of pump priming which the economy would temporarily require. 
The prime cause of our current ills has been a Government miscalculation- it has failed to appreciate the time lag between the imposition of economic restraints and the working out of their effects. Granted that some credit restriction and related actions were necessary early this year or even before, why did not the Government understand that the measures it took then would not have their real effect for many months ahead? Not realising this, the Government followed one packet of restraint with another packet and still another. Then, when the effects of the first restraint started to appear, we were already committed to the second and the unnecessary third. 
In its clumsy way, for instance, the Government has brought the building industry not just to recession but to incipient collapse. Its tariff policies have brought unemployment instead of just price restraint. 
It is as if a child did not realise that medicine took some time to act and, finding no immediate effects from one dose, took another and still another. By the time the first dose started to act in the normal way, the other doses would be irrevocably in the pipeline, and their consequences would be still to come. This is what this inept Government has done to our once prosperous and stable Australian economy. To return for a moment to the motorist's metaphor, the brakes have been applied inexpertly and we are in a skid. We must regain control of the car before we get into a bad collision. 
The first thing to do is simple: Ease the squeeze. This implies not only the relaxation of credit, but concurrent measures with tariffs and the encouragement of private enterprise. But remember that here too there is a time lag. Just as the Government's deflation measures took time to act, so too will any reflation measures. Panic repetition of such measures in the interim can lead to a crisis when they all take effect. If the Government repeats its past economic clumsiness, we will have stop-go in Excelsis. Is it too much to hope that the present Treasurer- and the other Treasurer behind him- will have run out of incompetence? 
There are many things that could be said against this Budget, and so many practical suggestions that could be made for its improvement! In the short time available to me, let me mention just one. I hope it will be taken as a constructive point. The Government is rightly concerned with moderating wage rises, which it rightly regards as one of the main engines behind inflation. It has very reasonably suggested that, if further claims were put on ice for the time being, it would only be fair to restore quarterly wage adjustments based on some objective measurement such as the consumer price index. I would most certainly support this- indexation the Government calls it- as part of a plan of restraint and industrial peace- for disruption of production, causing shortages of goods, is the second main engine behind the inflationary thrust. In passing, let me add that I believe this indexation should apply to all award wages and salaries without the kind of fiddle which the Minister for Labour and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  has suggested, because I believe that it will be more difficult to preserve industrial peace if we do not preserve full wage relativity. 
In the days when the price rise was relatively slow- under the Liberal-Country Party Government it averaged less than 3 per cent per yearannual wage adjustments, made substantially in advance were reasonable enough; but today, when prices are rising at some 5 per cent per quarter or over 20 per cent per year, quarterly adjustments, quarterly wage indexation, seem only fair. 
But here comes the other snag in the Government's proposals. As money wages rise, the tax on them rises more than proportionately, because our system of income tax is progressive, and the higher the wage the greater is the proportion of it taken in tax. Accordingly, under wage indexation without tax indexation, the wage earner's net take-home pay does not rise as far as the price rise, and he can buy less with it. Naturally he feels he has been cheated. A couple of months ago I suggested in a television interview in 'Federal File' that wage indexation should be accompanied by tax indexation and I am glad to see that our friend  Mr Hawke  has now somewhat belatedly adopted my suggestion, and that even the Treasurer is now giving it some consideration. The principle of tax indexation must be that there is an automatic adjustment of tax in accordance with price indexed rises in money wages, so that the real wage- the net take home pay- remains stable. It is not good enough just to reduce tax; we must devise a mechanism for the automatic and progressive reduction in taxation so that the proportion of tax paid on a given real income remains steady, even though prices may have risen and money incomes may have increased correspondingly. 
There is a convenient mechanism to do this, which I shall now endeavour to explain. If honourable members will look at the memorandum circulated by the Treasurer on Budget night, they will see that he sets out Income tax rates for 1974-75. 1 seek leave to have the table incorporated in Hansard. 

<graphic href="090131197010024_50_1.jpg"></graphic>

I thank the House. It is these rates which we want to keep stable in terms of real incomes. There is a simple device by which this can be done. The rates set out by the Treasurer change at various steps- that is, up to $1,000 per annum the rate is 2c in the dollar, while between $1,000 per annum and $2,000 per annum it is 10c in the dollar. Now when prices rise by, say, 5 per cent, all the steps in the table would, under my proposal, be multiplied by 105 over 100, so that up to $ 1 ,050 per annum the rate would be 2c in the dollar, and between $1,050 per annum and $2,100 per annum it would be 10c in the dollar, and so on. 
The adjustment could, of course, be done quarterly, but it would probably be more convenient to average the 4 quarters at the end of the year, and apply the averaged rise in making final assessments, so that pay as you earn taxpayers would receive a substantial refund at the end of the tax year. However there is no basic reason, other than administrative inconvenience, why some remissions should not be given to PAYE taxpayers at the same time as they get their quarterly adjustments. 
But on the whole I would think that the annual adjustment would be fair and equitable, and would be generally satisfactory. Let me give a hypothetical example. Suppose the price index at the start of the financial year is 100 and during the 4 succeeding quarters it is 105, 1 12, 1 16 and 123. These last 4 figures add up to 456, and the average of the four is thus 1 14. The basic tax table for the year, in place of the Treasurer's table set out above, thus becomes the table which I now seek leave to have incorporated in Hansard. 

<graphic href="090131197010024_50_2.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="090131197010024_51_3.jpg"></graphic>

I thank the House. The document shows how the rates would adjust automatically. It should be emphasised that once the price indexes have been determined this adjustment would be quite automatic and provision for it could be incorporated in the annual income tax rates Act. The effect would be to provide full equity for the taxpayer against the Treasury. No longer would the rise in money incomes prejudice him: He would continue to pay the same proportion of tax on his real income, irrespective of its money value. That effect can be seen from a table which I have in front of me. I seek leave to incorporate the table in Hansard. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER  (Mr Scholes)Order!  Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 
I would hope that when the Treasurer brings into the House the Bill to set 1974-75 tax rates he will make some provision for the automatic indexation of taxation which would prevent the Treasury from profiteering at the expense of the taxpayer. If he fails to do so, I would hope to find an opportunity of moving the necessary amendment in the House. 
It will be said, of course, that the Treasurer has based his Budget on continuing inflation. Indeed he said as much at page 88 of the statement attached to his Budget Speech and circulated in the House. It will be said by some people that nothing should be done to increase the deficit of $5 70m estimated by the Treasurer in his Budget Speech. I do not share this view for three reasons. First, with the outflow of funds overseas, the liquidity of the Australian banking system will need some replenishment if we are to avoid a complete economic collapse. The statutory reserve deposits of the trading banks have now almost run out, so there is not much margin for increasing bank liquidity by reducing them further. Some other way must be found, and a federal deficit would be one device- not the only one, of course- available for this purpose. In the circumstances an increased cash deficit in the Commonwealth Budget might well be desirable for its own sake. 
Second, although the Treasurer has announced an estimated deficit of $570m, this is not a correct figure. It has been arrived at by a fiddle- by cooking the books. I do not, of course, say that this is the first time that this has occurred. When we were the government we did the same, though never to the same degree. Let me explain. If honourable members look at page 20 of the Budget Paper No. 10- that is, the statement of national income for 1973-74- they will see, tucked away there, a very revealing figure whose significance, apparently, has not been generally appreciated. There is there a table showing an amount of $4, 124m spent in the year by public authorities on capital works. That table gives also the source of those funds and $2,967m- that is, 72 per cent- is stated to have come from the 'surplus on current transactions', that is, from revenue, and nearly all of it from Commonwealth revenue. Thus when the Treasurer announced that the Budget result for 1973-74 was a deficit of $293m he was most misleading. This 'deficit' was arrived at after charging nearly $3,000m of capital works against it. By any normal accounting method, the Treasurer should have shown a very substantial surplus for last year. Application of the same principles would show a very substantial surplus in his current estimates. 
Third, while the fight against inflation is still important, it is no longer our top economic priority. Under present circumstances our top priority is action to ward off a slump which has been brought on by an unhealthy pre-occupation with the inflation problem. Unless we deal with mounting unemployment and gathering business bankruptcy we can find ourselves face to face with an economic and social collapse, which, however much it may be relished by those whose avowed aim is the destruction of the whole fabric of our society, must surely be abhorrent to men of goodwill. Measures against inflation, which are already too sustained and too rigorous, will, if continued, produce this collapse. It is no use our economic doctors telling us that the operation was a success but the patient did not have the strength to survive it. Our first concern must be the survival of the patient- the Australian nation. 
For those 3 reasons I do not think it at all irresponsible to envisage a further reduction in taxation in this Budget. Such a reduction might well produce a cash 'deficit', which would not only be an acceptable way of relieving bank liquidity, but would also leave a substantial real surplus on any normal accounting principles in the Budget where capital expenditure is not charged in total against revenue. No, the irresponsibility would not he in tax reduction. Rather it would he in the continuance of the credit squeeze and related measures, which have already brought the Australian economy to the verge of collapse and which are spreading a wave of unemployment far worse than this generation of Australians has ever known. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
There is very much that the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  has just said which I certainly would support and which I believe everybody in the House would support. I do not want to detract from anything that he has said or in any way minimise my support by just drawing attention to the fact that one mistake that is rather crucial was incorporated in his argument. The honourable member talked about new towns and the people who are going to live in them. On our present population statistics there are not going to be many new towns. The population statistics are such that the Government's program as a whole is nonsense. I say that particularly for the benefit of the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson),  who is at the table, because his housing program incorporates a great deal of nonsense for the simple reason that he has not looked specifically at the proper projections of the Australian population. That is a very important subject. It is one which I hope to be able to develop at greater length at another time. 
I know perfectly well what the Government is doing and I know perfectly well what Professor Borrie is doing. I am saying that at the present moment the Government's plans incorporate a great deal of nonsense because they are based on a population projection which is simply wrong. I make that statement categorically and I am prepared to defend it in detail in this House or elsewhere. I know that Professor Borrie is shortly to reduce his previously published projections. I am familiar with what is going on. I make the definite statement that there is a great deal of nonsense talked by the Government, particularly by the Cities Commission, in this regard. If the Minister will do me the honour of looking at a small article which I wrote in the Sydney 'Bulletin' of this week he will see a little bit of this subject discussed but he will not see it discussed in depth because there was not enough room to do so. But, as I have said, I will take the opportunity in the future of discussing this matter in depth in the House. 
What I wanted to talk about tonight very briefly is the peculiar omission from the terms of reference of the Royal Commission which is inquiring into payments made to the maritime unions under duress. What happened was that when this matter was brought to the attention of the public the Government professed a great deal of indignation about it, said that it was improper and set up a Royal Commission to inquire into it. But one of the things that was missing from the terms of reference of that Royal Commission was any reference to misdoings by the Government itself because the Government itself knew about this misdemeanours and did nothing. One of the terms of reference of the Royal Commission should be why the Government did nothing, what Ministers had guilty foreknowledge of this matter and to what extent were they culpable in trying to hush up these events before they came to the notice of the public. I believe that this omission from the terms of reference of the Royal Commission is very significant because in my view there are guilty men in the Government. 
Why was the Royal Commission not told to investigate the prima facie fact that on 26 July, for example, the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  and the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  knew that money was being extorted by threat, and knew that the threats were a criminal act, yet they did not refer this matter to the Royal Commission. They allowed money to continue to be extorted from 26 July until a month later. They knew about it. They had prior knowledge that money was being extorted in regard to the 'Sevillon Reefer' under threat. It seems prima facie that there was a criminal act, that the Government knew about it and that the Government did nothing. 
I would not go so far as to assert that the Ministers are themselves criminally liable. They may be; I do not know. But I was very interested to look at the legal authorities on what is known as misprision, which is the concealment of a felony. I looked in particular at the case of R. V. Crim.mins which was heard in the Supreme Court of Victoria in 1959 and in which the judgment of a single judge was upheld by the Full Court The introduction to the report on this case states: 
The offence of misprision of felony is not obsolete. The citizen's duty is to disclose to the appropriate authorities any treason or felony of which he has knowledge remains the same and is still as binding upon him as it was in the early days of the common law. 
It is not an element in the offence of misprision of felony that the offender should have made his concealment of the crime a source of profit to himself. 
That is very clearly set out in the report. I want to read again from the judgment as contained in the report. It states: 
Misprision of felony has certainly come to us from the earliest times in the development of the common law ... In our opinion, however, the citizen's duty to disclose to the appropriate authorities and treason or felony, of which he has knowledge, remains the same and is still as binding upon him as it was in the early days of the common law. And no doubt cases will arise, from time to time, when the public interest will be best served by the citizen, who fails in his duty, being prosecuted for misprision of felony. There is certainly no justification for the view that such a prosecution is no longer available to the Crown. 
The question then is: What are the constituent elements of the crime? We think they are really determined by what we have already said. The offence lies in the failure to perform the duty to disclose ... it matters not what induced the citizen concerned not to do his duty. 
Those are weighty words. They are not my words; they are the words of the judge. As I have said, they were endorsed by the Full Court. It may be that the Attorney-General should be filing a bill against two of his Ministers. I do not go so far as to say that he should do that, but I say that there is prima facie evidence- it is in the public records- of maybe not a criminal offence but certainly a moral offence and certainly a kind of offence which should have been referred to the Royal Commission. It was not referred to the Royal Commission. I ask the Government now to extend the terms of reference of the Royal Commission to enable it to consider or report upon the failure of any Minister or Ministers to disclose the offence when it came to his or their notice or to take action to prevent its repetition. 
I want the Royal Commission to tell us whether any Minister has in a guilty way concealed things which should have been brought to the public attention because there is a time lag as evidence in the documents. I am not talking from hearsay; I am talking from documents. There is a prima facie case of wrongdoing- perhaps not criminal wrongdoing but wrongdoing- against a Minister and it should have been referred to the Royal Commission in all honesty. I wonder whether the whole commission inquiry is meant as a cover-up of guilty Ministers. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Yesterday in the House I asked the Acting Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  what rate was charged by the Reserve Bank to the various member banks for facilities of lender of last resort. The Acting 
Prime Minister was good enough to reply to me in these words: 
I am not specifically aware of the rate of interest that is charged but I will have that checked and inform the honourable member. 
This is recorded in Hansard. So far I have not received that information. On several occasions I have rung the Private Secretary of the Acting Prime Minister and I have asked whether the information could be provided. On each occasion he has said that it was being compiled and that it would be made available to me. It does not take very much to have this information compiled. It is a simple case of compiling half a dozen figures which are definite and well known. 
I can well imagine that the Acting Prime Minister has been a little engaged in other things today and perhaps- I do not want to press the matter too hard- he may not have been in a position to check the answer and send it through to me. But I do say this: It is a very simple matter for him to fulfil the promise that he gave. I am very anxious to get these figures as soon as possible. It is a matter of some considerable disappointment to me that I have not been able to get them before the House rises for this recess. They are figures of tremendous importance to the Australian community at present. Tales are going around- I am not in a position to say whether they are true or untrue- that the banking liquidity crisis has been caused by the Reserve Bank's charging these quite exorbitant rates to the member banks and that this is a fundamental error in policy. I do not know whether or not this is true because I have not the figures. 
I asked the Acting Prime Minister for the figures and I am trying to get them. When I get them I shall then know whether or not it is true. I ask the Acting Prime Minister once again whether he will let me have these figures without delay. He has promised to do so. The question is recorded in Hansard. They are figures which the whole of the community in Australia would be very interested in seeing. 
I thank the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  very much for what he has just said. It definitely gives me some satisfaction to see the last standard gauge link between the capitals completed and to see Port Pirie which used to be a 3-gauge town coming down to a one gauge town. It will be a better arrangement for the people of Port Pirie even if, as the honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis)  said a moment ago, there is some restriction in employment. 
We are talking about 2 lines in the legislation before us- the standardisation from Port Pirie into Adelaide and the new line up from Tarcoola to Alice Springs following generally the headwaters of the creeks rather than the low points as it does now. These lines, taken together, are important links that will give a direct link from Adelaide to Perth without change of gauge. They will also give a link from Broken Hill into Adelaide without change of gauge. This is important because Broken Hill looks to Adelaide a great deal. The scheme will give a direct link without change of gauge from Alice Springs to Adelaide and the main standard gauge system. It will give a link from Marree into Adelaide, and that is important because of the cattle which will come down the Birdsville Track. It will give a direct link from Whyalla to Adelaide and that may be important to some extent, having regard to the steel mills at Whyalla. So the scheme before us- fills one of the missing links and at the same time gives a standard gauge connection from the centre of Australia to the main centres in the south and the east. 
But there is still one missing bit, and that is of course the standard gauge between Melbourne and Adelaide. The standardisation of this line may not be a matter of great urgency because of the development of bogie change methods which give a fair efficiency, but not a satisfactory result for bulk goods. It would I think be very difficult to justify the standardisation of this link unless we were at the same time thinking of restructuring on a standard gauge the broad gauge system of Victoria and South Australia. As honourable members will recall those States now use the broad gauge system of 5 feet 3 inches whereas the standard gauge is 4 feet  %Vi  inches. It looks as if it would be easy to standardise all of the lines. It would not be terribly difficult to standardise the whole system, but if one wanted to do this one would be faced with 2 problems. The first is the problem of the Melbourne suburban system and the second is the problem of changing the gauge on rolling-stock, some of which has been built for a change of gauge but much of which is incapable of quick conversion. So on the whole I would think that, unless one is prepared to look at the whole of the broad gauge systems and at the same time perhaps rationalise them by closing redundant lines and redundant stations, it would not be economic at this stage to think of the standard gauge from Melbourne to Adelaide. As I have said, this is the missing link and it certainly deserves further studies. 
We are not interested in the past; we are interested in the future. There are just one or two remarks that I would like to make. I have already spoken about the missing link between Melbourne and Adelaide where there is a case to be made out and further study to be undertaken. But I do not believe that we should be doing this except as part of a major plan to standardise the whole of the broad gauge systems and at the same time close redundancies in them. The honourable member for Wakefield has already mentioned the Wilmington and Gladstone troubles and the troubles from Peterborough to Orroroo and Quorn. If these lines are to remain open, and it may well be that they should remain open- I do not know and I do not express any opinion on that- and if there are to be rail connections with these towns I would think that the right thing to do would be to standardise from Gladstone through Wilmington and into Quorn and then to. close the redundant line from Orroroo into Quorn. I think this might be done quite effectively. It would be a reasonable way of solving the difficulty. However, I do not say that this is necessarily the best way of solving the problem. 
Consideration should also be given to the extension of the standard gauge north from Alice Springs to Darwin. At present with the road through from Alice Springs towards Darwin this rail link probably is not justified unless- and I want to underline the word 'unless'- there be major mineral developments north of Alice Springs. It may well be that minerals that need massive transport might be discovered in the Tennant Creek and adjoining areas. If this happened we would then have a real reason and justification for extending the line north from Alice Springs. This might come at any time. It is country which potentially at any rate is rich in minerals. The big lodes have not turned up in this area as yet but they well may. We could be thinking overnight of a change of strategy in regard to the railway line. The line northwards from Alice Springs either to or towards Darwin might become economically viable overnight. We have a first class line southwards from Marree into Port Augusta. This is an important line particularly because it picks up the southern end of the Birdsville Track. The Birdsville Track has recently been reconstituted but not very successfully I fear in its southern sections where there was a tendency in the early days to minimise the earth works. But the northern sections- the track does not go right through to Birdsville yet; there is still a 100-rrule gap- have been pretty satisfactorily done. There is a major trouble there with the crossing of the Cooper River. The Cooper is a major stream when it floods. It does not flood very often but it is flooding now and it will tend to close the Birdsville Track from time to time. I cannot quite see how bridges could be justified to take the very occasional but major flooding which comes down the Cooper. It would be fairly easy to have the Birdsville Track which would be open perhaps for 95 per cent of the time but which would close every now and again and perhaps for a considerable time when the Cooper came down in flood and as honourable members know, it comes down in very considerable flooding from time to time. 
I do not think there is much point in talking about extending the line north from Marree on the eastern side of Lake Eyre unless there be major mineral discoveries in the area. These are sedimentary basins rather than basins with old rocks. Perhaps mineral discoveries are less likely but the possibility of oil and gas in that basin is always there. But even if you went north you would have to have the very considerable trouble of getting across the Cooper. If I remember correctly,  Sir Harold  Clapp in his report did envisage this being done although a little bit to the east of this position. It can be done. I doubt whether it would be economic to do it even though it would have the attraction of bringing a rail connection through to those lines which come west in Queensland and at the present moment are dead ends. On the whole one does not envisage anything much north of Marree. But one does envisage the Birdsville Track being improved and the cattle yard and transhipment facilities at Marree being very much improved not between narrow gauge and standard gauge rail as they are today but between road and rail standard gauge south particularly to the Adelaide cattle markets. 
Finally let me agree with the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  who said that we should be looking at the question of the roads. The Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  said, and said very rightly, that we have to get a much better road from Alice Springs southwards. On this I would be absolutely in agreement. I am not certain that we should put the road as far to the west as we are putting the railway. With the railway where one needs to have virtually 100 per cent availability and where rail structures crossing rivers are always vulnerable I think there is a very good reason for putting the railway to the west at the headwaters of the creeks. I agree entirely that the right decision has been made. I am not so certain that the road should go as far to the west. 
As honourable members will know, the country in this area gets very boggy but if the road were raised only a little above the surface the clay and the loam which is piled up and as it is consolidated will hold its shape very well indeed and will not go boggy. This would not have been practicable until we had heavy earth moving equipment. But today when we have heavy earth moving equipment it is a relatively simple thing to put the road fairly high up above the general level of any flooding. To the west of Lake Eyre as opposed to the east we do not get the long floods coming down like we get down the Cooper. We may get a very considerable flash flood from time to time but that is all and the amount of water moving over the surface is not usually very great. It is sometimes very concentrated but not very great and it does not maintain itself for very long. So if one considers a road on an embankment which is passable all the time and wide concrete dish crossings it may be- I do not say more than 'may'; I just ask for heavy survey work to be done- that the best way to take the road as opposed to the new railway line would be virtually along the line of the present road and railway. That is to say, use the road from Marree or perhaps from a point not very far to the west of Marree. It is a matter of detailed survey. 
I do not think we should make ourselves the victims of old thinking which was good thinking at the time when you did not have heavy earth moving equipment. But now that we have heavy earth moving equipment it seems to me that the best way for the road might well be more or less along the line of the existing road. I say this because the road from Adelaide up to Marree is not a perfect road by any means. It gets a bit muddy and greasy as the honourable member for Wakefield would know. Indeed, I have driven over it myself when it has been at its very worst. But it is a road which would not take a tremendous amount of work to improve it and which would, I think, justify some improvement. It might be most economical to take the highway up in this direction. 
I put this to the House not as a tremendously firm view but as something that I believe is very much worth while investigating. Honourable members will know that there is a proposal to come westwards from Broken Hill to Silverton and across the ranges- I think many of them may know the track- directly and to come in near Leigh Creek. If this were done this would give us the best kind of highway system with the minimum expenditure. From a national point of view it may well be that the right road from Adelaide and Melbourne to Alice Springs would pass through Broken Hill and go from there westwards across the range to Leigh Creek and then up via Marree and the line of the existing road. This might well prove to be the most economical way of carrying out the whole roads system and it would give the direct connection from Sydney across to Alice Springs which in itself is a very desirable thing to have. I just ask for a careful examination of the whole position in the light of the changed circumstances which have occurred by reason of the very desirable proposal which I think a past government made and which this Government has adopted of re-routing the railway to the west- Tarcoola to Alice Springs. I thank the House. 
-Under the provisions of standing order 140 I withdraw notice of motion No. 3 for the next sitting standing in my name and notice of motion No. 1 for General Business Thursday No. 2 standing in my name. I give notice that on General Business Thursday No. 2I shall move: 
That in the opinion of this House some provision should be made for assistance to widowers and deserted husbands with dependent children. 
I also give notice that on General Business Thursday No. 4I shall move: 
1 ) that a committee be set up to inquire into the incidence of the means test upon invalid and widow pensioners and report to this House upon any cases which seem desirable. 
That such committee consist of 3 members nominated by the Prime Minister and 3 members nominated by the Leader of the Opposition, together with the mover. 
That such committee be empowered to sit during sittings of the House, to move from place to place, to send for persons and papers and require evidence to be given on oath. 
That such committee do elect its chairman. 
That the quorum for the meetings of such committee be four. 
That such committee do report to this House as soon as possible but at any rate not later than the first sitting of the House occuring after 3 months from the passing of this resolution. 
That so much of the Standing Orders as would conflict with the above provisions be suspended. 

 -Mr Chairman- 

Motion (by  Mr Daly)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Remainder of the Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 

 -Mr Speaker, in view of the fact that we were not allowed to speak- 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  proposed: 
That the question be now put. 
This is an outrage. 
The amalgamation of trade unions without the consent of the majority of their members has been facilitated by a Bill which passed this House today. I am not going to revise the debate on that Bill. I am not even going to refer to the way in which various clauses of it were gagged through Committee without debate. I intend, however, to point out to the House that the amalgamation of unions without the consent of their members is a mixed blessing. It may well be, as the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  has said in this House, that this will reduce inter-union disputes and legal difficulties. That may be true. But the cost will be heavy. It would not matter if communists had not  infiltrated these unions and were not manipulating these unions in the interests of the Communist Party and against the interests of all Aus.tralians. 
I want to state chapter and verse of the situation in one union in relation to which amalgamation has already taken place. It is an example  of the  kind of thing that can happen. I refer to the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union. I intend to read out, firstly, the names of certain people, secondly, the union positions held by those people, thirdly, their party affiliation, and fourthly, pubtic reference to that. They are people to whom public reference as communists has been made. They are by no means all the communists in the union. There are many under cover communists who are not on this list, and there are many people to whom public reference has been made as communists who are not on this list. However, let me read out this incomplete list. Honourable members will be able to learn to some extent from it the degree of penetration by the Communist Party into a particular union. The list is as follows: 
Carmichael, Assistant Secretary, Communist Party of Australia, 'Current Affairs Bulletin ' 1 967. 
Baird, Research Officer, Communist Party of Australia, 'Tribune' 4 July 1964 and 27 October 197 1. 
Wright, Federal Vice President (soon to retire), Communist Party of Australia (National Committee Member), 'Current Affairs Bulletin' 1967. 
Atkins, Federal Organiser, Communist Party of Australia, 'Australian'  5  February 1970 and 'Tribune' 27 October 1971. 
Bollins, N.S.W. President and organiser, Communist Party of Australia, 'Tribune' 3 March 1971 and 27 October 1971, Communist candidate, Bankstown in New South Wales 1966 elections, 'Australian' 3 February 1970. 
Adamson, N.S.W. organiser, Newcastle  President  of CPA, 'Nation Review' 22 March 1973. 
Hatfield, N.S.W. organiser, Communist Party of Australia, 'Tribune' 3 March 1971 and27 October 1971. 
Buckley, N.S.W. official, Communist Party of Australia, 'Tribune' 3 March 1971 and 27 October 1971. 
Searle, N.S.W. official, Communist Party of Australia 'Tribune '26 April 1971. 
Sharkey, N.S.W. organiser, Communist Party of Australia, 'Tribune ' 27 October 1 97 1 . 
Campbell, Newcastle organiser, Communist Party of Australia, ' Tribune ' 1 9 August 1 970 and 27 October 1971. 
Thompson, Townsville organiser, Communist Party of Australia, 'Tribune ' 27 October 1 97 1 . 
Wyper, Queensland official, Communist Party of Australia, Queensland Premier's List 4 August 1 970. 
Hickey, Queensland official, Communist Party of Australia, Queensland Premier's List 4 August 1970. 
Hennessey, Queensland official, Communist Party of Australia, Queensland Premier's List 4 August 1970. 
Lofthouse, Queensland local delegate, State CommitteeQueensland Communist Party Queensland Premier's List 4 August 1970. 
Crisp, Queensland official, State CommitteeQueensland Communist Party Queensland CP press release 1 March 1970. 
Bishop, Queensland official, State CommitteeQueensland Communist Party Queensland CP press release 1 March 1970. 
Lorkin AEU convenor of shop stewards at Newport Communist Party of Australia, 'Tribune ', 27. 10.7 1 . 
Armstrong, Latrobe Valley secretary, Communist Party of Australia, 'Contact', Latrobe Valley region publication, March 1973. 
Halfpenny, Victorian Secretary, Communist party of Australia, 'Tribune' 1972. 
Ogden, Victorian Education and Research Secretary, Communist Party of Australia, 'Tribune' 1972, CPA candidate for Melbourne 1972. 
Bob Pointer, South Australian organiser, South Australia Executive of SPA, SPA July 1 972. 
J. Marks, West Australian organiser, Communist Party of Australia, CPA candidate in 1972 General elections, Western Australian delegate to the 2 1 st Congress of the CPA in 1967, 'Tribune' 14June 1967. 
Peden, West Australian organiser, Communist Party of Australia: State President 1972, 'Tribune' 21 to 27 March 1972. 
Beaver, Organiser of the National AMWU Womens Conference in April 1974, National Committee Member of the Communist Party of Australia, 'Tribune ' 4 July 1 972. 
Quinn, Secretary-Treasurer, Wollongong Boilermakers arid Blacksmiths, Communist Party of Australia, 'Tribune' 27 October 1971. 
Engert, N.S.W. organiser, Socialist Party of Australia, contributed to CPA, discussion journal for 2 1st Congress, supporter of the 'Australian Socialist '. 
Lipscombe, N.S.W. organiser, Communist Party of Australia, 'Tribune '27 October 1971. 
Goss, S.A. research officer, Socialist Party of Australia, sponsored the 'Australian Socialist' newspaper which described him as a 'well known Communist ', July 1 970. 
Abello, AMWU activist, Communist Party of Australia, 'Tribune ' 27 October 1 97 1 . 
Rix AMWU activist (women), Communist Party of Australia 'Tribune' 27 October 1971. 
Lloyd Caldwell, Secretary of the Campbelltown Branch of AMWU, Communist Party of Australia, author of the pamphlet 'The Harco Work-in . . . The Experiences of Workers ' Control ', 'Tribune '27 October 1971. 
This is by no means a complete list. It refers only to those people who have been publicly identified in the past as communists. It is not even a complete list of them. I ask the House and the country to consider the extent of communist penetration into this one union. I give it as an example of what happens when trade unions are amalgamated and we get these big communist controlled organisations which are not working for their members. They are not working for the advantage of their members at all. The communist officials of these unions are betraying their  members in the interests of destroying the Australian economy and producing here a kind of communist-socialist dictatorship. 
I think that honourable members will remember that only a few weeks ago the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in this House said that the trade union movement had never been in better hands. I think that he denied that it had any communist affiliations. I have just drawn to the attention of the House a union with which the Prime Minister is well acquainted because on 2 June 1972 he went to the preliminary conference of this union- I have the minutes of" the conference here and they are in Hansard- and begged and got from it $25,000 for his campaign fund. He is well aware surely of the communist penetration into this union. I think that this is perhaps not the biggest but certainly one of the biggest and one of the most influential unions in Australia. 
The Prime Minister knows this perfectly well. Yet that man had the effrontery to stand up in this House and deny there was communist penetration and say that the trade union movement had never been in better hands. This is the kind of Prime Minister that we have, a Prime Minister who does not forbear from stooping to deceive this House because he must have known that he was saying something which was not factual. He must have known when he said this the extent of the communist penetration of this union with which he has a personal and intimate association and to which he went down on his hands and knees and crawled to communists in order to get $25,000 for the Labor Party. Yet he got up in this House and he tried to deceive us by telling us: 'No, there are no communists; the unions have never been in better hands'. I have read out some of the hands that the union is in. If this is what the Prime Minister calls good hands, it tells us something very, very revealing about the Prime Minister of Australia 
I move: 
That, in the opinion of this House, some provision should be made for assistance to widowers and deserted husbands with dependent children. 
We have a system of social services in Australia which has been progressively improved over the years. This has gone on under governments from both sides of the House. Nevertheless there are still and there always will be, I think, gaps in our system which should be filled progressively by new and improved services. While I was Minister for Social Services I believe I filled some of these gaps. Others I should like to have filled. Honourable members will notice that I have on the notice paper today 5 motions which relate to gaps in our social services structure. I have moved the first of these motions because I believe it is the most urgent. The things which I have put on the notice paper are the things which I would have recommended as Minister had I so continued. I cannot, of course, guarantee that our Government would have carried them out, but I believe it would. 
The next cab on the rank, and one which I would have hoped to have moved off the rank earlier, was the matter of help for widowers and deserted husbands with dependent children. These are people who really deserve the sympathy of the House and of the country. I want us to consider the position of the young husband with children whose wife has suddenly died. He has lost his wife. He now may have to face up to the breakup of his family. If he remains in employment who is to look after his young children? Unless he has a fairly big salary he cannot afford a housekeeper. He may be lucky enough to have a mother or a sister who will come to his aid and housekeep for him. Some are fortunate in this regard; some are not. But young husbands whose wives have suddenly died find themselves in this appalling predicament. They have lost their wife- that is perhaps as big a tragedy as can occur to any man- and they then find the position compounded by the fact that their young children cannot be kept at home because they have not the means to do so. This is an appalling position in which no Australian should be placed. It is, I think, a shame to all of us that it has not been remedied previously. 
Then there is another class of people, not quite so tragic perhaps but tragic enough nevertheless. I refer to the deserted husband with young children. I say with some regret- unfortunately the statistics establish this- that although the deserted husband with young children was comparatively rare a few decades ago, he is now becoming more common. He suffers the loss of a wife- perhaps not the same tragedy as the loss of a wife by death, but still a tragedy, and in some cases almost as severe for him. He is then faced with the same possibility that his family will be broken up because there is no financial means to support it. If, as I said, he has a relative to housekeep for him maybe he can cope, but not all have that assistance. 
What are the numbers of these people? In the last census some figures were taken out on families where husbands did not have wives and there were dependent children under 21 years of age. There were 12,000 families where there was one such dependent child; 7,000 families where there were 2 such dependent children; 3,500 families where there were 3 dependent children; 1,500 families where there were 4 dependent children; and 1,000 families where there were S or more children thus dependent. In round figures there were 25,000 families and 50,000 children involved. That means that there are 75,000 Aus- tralians-25,000 of them adults, 50,000 of them children- who are thus suffering. They deserve immediate relief. I do not say for one moment that nothing has been done by the present Government. I shall be as factual as I can about this and I hope to approach it in a non-partisan spirit because this is a proposal which, as I said, I believe we should have introduced when we were the Government. I believe we would have done it last year if we had remained in government and I believe it should be done here and now. 
I know that special arrangements have been made by this Government and I give it credit for the maintenance of children in institutions. This has helped. But it is not quite what the young husband who wants to keep his children with him would prefer. I know that provisions have been in the Act for a long time for the application of what is known as a special benefit which is given in cases of hardship and in accordance with rather severe departmental practice. The Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  issued a statement, I think last August, in regard to this and I was hopeful that it would have presaged a relaxation of departmental practices in this regard. I hope still that it will. But it is still not quite what is wanted, I suppose for 2 reasons. Firstly, there is a discretionary aspect in the granting of such benefit which is not really suitable for the kind of federal bureaucracy which we have. Secondly, it is not given as a right; people have to beg for it and establish special hardship. The granting of the benefit would seem to be incompatible with the maintenance of any kind of employment. I say that there is provision under the Social Services Act for a more generous administration of this special benefit, but even if it were administered in that way I do not think that it would quite meet the case. I shall not take up further time of the House by emphasising the plight of these people and that something should be done to help them. 
I now come to the question of what should be done. The first and most readily available remedy would be to make such fathers eligible for widow pensions on the same basis as women with dependent children are thus eligible. I think this could be supported as an interim measure for 2 reasons: Firstly, it is logical in these days of women's lib that we should not have discrimination against men. If a widow with dependent children is eligible for financial help should not a man similarly situated also be eligible? I find that this is not altogether a watertight argument because if one followed it to its natural conclusion one would say that a widower without dependent children should be eligible in the same way as a widow without dependent children. I do not think any of us would say that. There are differences in earning capacities and family practices, but still there is some logical basis for introducing this benefit as an interim measure. 
Secondly, as honourable members know, there have been deputations to this House by representatives of the Supporting Fathers Association and they have asked for this as a first measure. Because it is readily available and could be done quickly I think that this should be done here and now. I believe that here and now we should make widowers with dependent children eligible for pensions on the same basis as widows with dependent children. But I would regard this as an interim measure and not a completely satisfactory one. It has its defects, particularly by reason of the operation of the present means test which would reduce the capacity of a family getting pension relief to receive additional income. I shall give the top limits for the payment of any kind of pension- the bar, as it were, beyond which you cannot proceed if you take any advantage at all of the pension. For a one child family it is $100 a week; 2 children $110; for 3 children $120; 4 children $130; and 5 children $140. These levels are something above starvation wages. 
Such payments are helpful to those right at the bottom of the scale, but it is not satisfactory. I do not think that anybody would really say that a 5 child family on $140 a week is doing very well indeed. This is particularly so because of the peculiar situation of the widower or deserted husband. If he is working he has to have some kind of housekeeping arrangements unless some of his children are old enough to sustain the burden of housekeeping themselves. Housekeepers would cost money, and even some kinds of ad hoc arrangements would cost money. So I would regard this proposal not as a satisfactory solutionit is not- but as an immediate interim measure which should be introduced here and now. It is not good enough simply to maintain the special benefit provisions, for the reasons that I have given. I appeal to the Government to do this immediately and, perhaps, to amend the Bill relating to social services, which is before the House for consideration, to include a provision of this character. Under the provisions of the 
Constitution I could not move such an amendment to the Bill. But I ask the Minister for Social Security whether he would consider moving, when that social services Bill is being debated, an amendment which would put the widower or deserted husband with dependent children on the same footing as the widow with dependent children. 
As I have said, I do not regard this as the final or even a fully satisfactory solution. It does not meet the position of the man who needs to go out to work if his children are to be raised above what is in reality a threshhold starvation level. Nevertheless, it will be of immediate relief. Even if it allows a little income for the men who work to enable their children to be home at weekends, that would be something. 
Let us look at this from a human point of view and remember that a man who has lost his wife should not be subject to the additional strain of having his young family broken up. For the future, I believe that our policy has to be tied up with a review of the means test as it applies to widows with dependent children. Honourable members will recall that I have on the notice paper at present a proposal to debate exactly that position. I will not have time to deal with it now. But it does seem to me that we have to be looking at the widow with dependent children as well as the widower and that the means test as it applies to the widow as well as the widower is defective and in need of fundamental overhaul. 
The question will be asked: Where is the money to come from? That is a very reasonable question. I do point out to the House that the position now with respect to the Budget is quite different from what it was even a few months ago. A few months ago, we were worried as we should have been with the over liquidity of the banking system. It was leading to inflation. Because of that fact, we did not want to run a Federal deficit which would add to the liquidity of the banking system and increase inflationary pressures. This was a natural brake on the activities of our Government when we were in power and it should have been a natural brake on the activities of this new Government in its early months of office. But the situation has now changed. 
We do not want to detract from the liquidity of the banking system; we want to add to it If we are to avoid wholesale bankruptcy, the banking system has to be made more liquid. There are many ways of doing this. This is not the time for me to go into them. I hope to discuss them further at another stage. There are many ways of beating slumpflation, or of beating the present slump, by adding to the liquidity of the banking system. This can be done by the bills market, by open market operations, by Federal deficit or by lender of last resort. There are a number of options. One of the ways of achieving this is to have an increased Federal deficit. This may be a desirable thing in its own right now as a means of adding to the liquidity of the banking system. It is one means, but not the only means, of adding to the liquidity of the banking system and preventing the wholesale bankruptcy which will occur if we do not restore liquidity to the banking system. 
I would say that the financial brakes which, only a few months ago, might have been quite reasonable, are not reasonable today. In this context one needs perhaps the accelerator rather than the brake. For that reason, I believe that here and now we could make widowers and deserted husbands with dependent children eligible for pensions on the same basis as women who are widowed or deserted. Do it now, even though it is only an interim measure and even though more fundamental matters should be dealt with when we come to revise the structure of our social services. As an interim measure, please,  Mr Minister,  do it now. Put this provision into the social services Bill which awaits the consideration of the House now. I cannot move an amendment to that Bill, because of the provisions of the Constitution, but you can.  Mr Minister,  will you do it now, please? These people need help. They deserve help. I think that their area of need represents the biggest gap in the whole system. 

 -Mr Speaker, I move- 
That the ruling be dissented from. 
I draw your attention to standing order 173, which reads: 
Every amendment must be relevant to the question which it is proposed to amend. 
The amendment moved by the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  is not relevant to the question which I have brought forward. I am well aware that there are dragooned votes in this House. I say with all seriousness that I know that your ruling will be upheld, irrespective of whether it is right or wrong, by the House because your colleagues have the numbers. But your ruling is wrong,  Sir. It  is in direct conflict with standing order 173, which, I repeat, states: 
Every amendment must be relevant to the question which it is proposed to amend. 
I tried to make my speech as non-political as possible. My colleagues and I are trying to help a section of the community which is deserving of help immediately. I ask the Minister for Social Security: Does he not have any compassion? Does he merely want to play politics? Apparently he does. 
Several matters have been raised in this debate so far. I agree that members of this chamber are, on the whole, very poorly paid. I think it was inevitable that the last proposed salary rise would be knocked back because of the circumstances in which we found ourselves. But I do not see that that should in any way be a precedent for the future. It should be remembered- to our credit, I suppose- that we are one of the few groups in the community not to accept an award of a properly constituted tribunal. We are not even going on strike for extra pay. Perhaps the country would be grateful if we were to do so. 
Mention has been made of the facilities available to members of Parliament. I take this opportunity of saying how much I and I think other honourable members appreciate the research services of the Parliamentary Library, which have been built over past years. The Parliamentary Library is really providing a tremendous service to members of this Parliament. I, at any rate, would like to say that the officers who are providing the services are showing a quite remarkable degree of competence and initiative. 
I have risen this afternoon really to draw attention to the necessity for Ministers to be truthful and to carry out the promises that they make in this chamber. As honourable members will know, I have a motion on notice for the future about the truthfulness of Ministers. I do not intend to follow that proposed motion, but I do want to draw attention to an incident that occurred in this chamber fairly recently. On 2 October- honourable members will find this recorded at page 2034 of Hansard- I asked the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns),  who at that stage was the Acting Prime Minister, about the various interest rates being charged by the Reserve Bank of Australia as the lender of last resort to the trading banks. He replied: 
I am aware of the widespread view that the rate of interest in this respect is high and may cause difficulties that could be avoided. I am not specifically aware of the rate of interest that is charged but I will have that checked and inform the honourable member. 
That definite commitment to give information to me was made publicly in this chamber by the man who at that time was Acting Prime Minister and who therefore had full authority to give it. I have tried since that time to extract from the Minister for Overseas Trade the information that he promised to give to me. His acting private secretary telegraphed me yesterday to this effect: 
In  Dr Cairns'  absence I am acknowledging your telegram of 4 October requesting information as to rate of interest charged by the Reserve Bank to the various member banks for last resort facilities.  Dr Cairns  has asked me to pass on the following information. 'In accordance with traditional banker/customer relationships their terms and conditions of loans by the Reserve Bank under the terms of LGS convention are not made public. The bank may charge "penal" rates on such loans if it considers this justified.' I apologise  for the delay in transmitting this advice. 
I wrote back to the Minister for Overseas Trade yesterday to this effect: 
Dear  Dr Cairns, 
Thank you for your telegram of 1 5 October signed on your behalf by your secretary refusing to give me information regarding the rates of interest charged to various member banks by the Reserve Bank in its capacity as lender of last resort. 
You will recall that on 2 October, as recorded at page 2034 of Hansard, you as Acting Prime Minister gave me an unequivocal assurance that you would ascertain the rate of interest and inform me of it. 
The question at issue is whether you intend to welsh on this promise or not. 
I put this forward both as a substantial matter and as one which goes directly to the honour and credibility of the Minister in this House and in regard to his proceedings in this House. It was in this House that he made a promise to me publicly at question time. He made it as Acting Prime Minister. Therefore he made it with full authority. But I go further than that. He made it as a man who has some experience of public finance. Indeed, he holds himself out to be a doctor in this and related subjects. It would be expected, therefore, that he was not speaking as somebody who was uninformed- even an Acting Prime Minister may sometimes be uninformed- and that he was speaking on a subject on which he knew nothing. He spoke in this House on a subject on which he was expert at a time when he was Acting Prime Minister and therefore had full authority. He made a promise in this House. Two alternatives are open to me. Either he was quite culpably ignorant of what was going on and made a promise without knowing what it meant- I find that difficult to believe- or he made a promise in order to put me off and used the forms of this House in order to cover up something. It is very important that a Minister should not be allowed to use the forms of this House for a cover-up operation of this character. This is not a matter of triviality; it is a matter of very grave importance because the nature of the credit squeeze and the miscalculation of the Government which is causing so much economic disaster follows very much from the policy of the Reserve Bank. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)Order!  I point out to the honourable member for Mackellar that he is digressing from the estimates for the Parliament. 
-I am simply pointing to the conduct of the Acting Prime Minister in this House and am trying to illustrate the importance of the fact that when a promise is made in this chamber it should be honoured. This is an important matter which goes right to the root of government in this House. 
I never gave a promise of that character. 
-Oh no. I gave a promise that I would do everything I could to have the means test abolished. 
Yes I did. I can assure the Minister that I am still of the same mind and that belatedly I will succeed in foisting this policy even on the reluctant Labor Party. However, I will not be diverted by the Minister's interjections. Let me come back to this most serious matter. I believe that there has been a gross miscalculation by the Reserve Bank and I do not believe that this would have happened without direction from the Government. I am almost driven to the conclusion that the Acting Prime Minister deliberately took a course of action to cover up in this House. He made a promise to me in this House which he had no intention of carrying out. 
This is not a trivial matter. It is a matter of the gravest importance. It relates to the solvency of big and small people who are being squeezed by the credit squeeze. When a Minister- an Acting Prime Minister- makes a promise in this House it is important for the conduct of this House that he should be held to it and that he should honour that promise. I ask now that the information which the Minister is trying to cover up should be revealed. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
I share the confidence of the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Riordan)  in the potential of this country. I do not share his confidence about the immediate situation which has been created by this Government. Today our first emphasis naturally is on inflation- the worst on record and accelerating. Our attention might be drawn also to the slump. Unemployment is the worst since the Depression and is worsening. Indeed it is much worse than is shown in the figures because so many people who are eligible to register have not yet registered. I think they are doing a very foolish thing by delaying. Outside every agency of the Commonwealth Employment Service might be written 'You U be cool in Whitlam 's pool' because it is the policies of this Government which have created the unemployment which it said it would never tolerate. I do not say that unemployment has not helped to dampen down inflation and the cost spiral. It has, but I 'do not countenance that kind of unemployment which this Government has created and is creating. It is no good saying to employers 'You must keep your skilled labour' when the bank manager says to them 'I cannot lend you money to pay your wages because the Government has squeezed credit and prevented me doing so'. 
NEAT, the national employment training scheme, and RED, the new regional employment development scheme, are only the dole with sugar coating on it. Not only do they mean lower wages and lower standards but also a waste of real resources because the works which are being done are not as economically good as the production which could have been obtained from these people had they been normally employed. NEAT and RED is a description of Red Riding Hood but it is not a good description of an economic policy- 'You'll be cool in 
Whitlam 's pool'. How can a Government have done so much damage in so short a time? The troubles were not inherited. It is said that they are the troubles of a system. If it is the Government's policy to make the system unworkable at least it is making a good job of that policy. The system worked all right when those opposite were not the Government. 
I have said that the situation is worse than it looks because the Government has already used up a lot of its leeway and we are now in the middle of what I describe as 'slumpflation', a combination of inflation and slump which is the next step after the combination of stagnation and inflation which we call stagflation. We have passed through stagflation; we are now in the position of slumpflation. 
In the past the Government has applied three types of measures against inflation- a credit squeeze, an import glut through appreciation of the currency and reduction of the tariffs and a profits squeeze through price limitation which has its good points but which has been carried to an undesirable excess as even the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  mentioned today when he said that the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd could not be expected to expand its steel operations on the small profit margin which the prices limitation machinery had given it. 
We have used up our leeway so what do we do now? I think the time has come to relax the credit squeeze and to do so fairly quickly because unless something is done it will be much worse. If there is any further outflow of foreign funds, whether by reason of our deficit on current account or other reason, the liquidity of the banking system must go down. If the seasonal deficit in the Federal Budget is reduced either by the payment of company taxation or otherwise, as the end of the financial year comes when Treasury bills are to be paid off by reason of that normal seasonal deficit coming to an end, there will be a further contraction of bank liquidity and a further squeeze. 
Something has to be done about it now. It is no good saying that we will do it with the statutory reserve deposits. I think only 3 per cent of them are left and one per cent is worth only $1 10m so there is not much water left in that bucket and we cannot get much more out of it. Other things have to be done. There is the open market, whether it can be done through the normal purchase of Commonwealth bonds or through entering into the bill market, this can be done through the Reserve Bank. It is doing it, but is it doing it enough? Then there is the question of lender of last resort. The penal interest rate charged by the Reserve Bank in its capacity as lender of last resort has been too high. It should be relaxed so that bank credit can be made available through that channel. 
Finally, there is the question of the Commonwealth Budget. There is something to be said now- and the position is different now from what it was two or three months ago because the climate has changed- for having an increased Commonwealth deficit for the sake of having that deficit and adding to the liquidity base of the whole banking structure. This is one of the ways of increasing liquidity. It is not the only way. But it is one of the methods which I think should be resorted to now. 
I do not believe that the total of Commonwealth expenditure should now be cut. I think that we can be more discriminating in regard to expenditure and that we do not want to have the kinds of extravagance which we have had on matters of no consequence. There could be a better direction of expenditure. But at this moment I would not advocate the cutting of total Commonwealth expenditure and particularly I would not advocate a reduction in expenditure on social services; indeed in some respects I think that expenditure could well be increased. 
More than that, I would advocate a reduction of taxation and charges in ways which would cut into real costs as quickly as possible. The indexation of taxation on incomes is obviously one way of doing this. It is one of the ways in which the inflationary pressures from the trade union movement could well be reduced. But I think we should be reducing charges which bear most directly upon costs. Sales tax has been mentioned, but even more there are such charges as transport costs which might well be subsidised through the States. Perhaps even some foodstuffs might be subsidised. We should take action which in any way will reduce costs of living 
At present there is a case to be made out for having an increased Commonwealth deficit. That might well best come through reducing charges in a way which is specifically designed to reduce costs in the economy. As such we might be able to combine a reflationary policy to help unemployment, which is rising far too high, and, at the same time, keep costs down and lower the rate of inflation. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Armitage)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
I was interested to hear the remarks of the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen).  In regard to the expressways he was talking about, I think people are inclined to forget that the Sydney area requires expressways in order to divert traffic around the central business district. The Warringah Expressway is to be paid for by the toll from the Sydney Harbour Bridge, which at present represents a discriminatory impost upon the people who live north of Sydney Harbour, particularly the people who live in my electorate. So, because they are paying for it, they have a special call on the money and a special call on the construction of the relevant expressway. I am always a little distressed by the doctrinaire approach of the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  in this regard. He does not seem to realise that the principles he is talking about in relation to expressways are all right as general principles but they do not apply to the particular position of Sydney, where the most easterly crossing of the Harbour must remain the Sydney Harbour Bridge and that, by its very nature, is related to the central business district of Sydney. So, there is a special reason for bringing this traffic around the central business district of Sydney, partly by the Western Distributor and partly by the construction of additions to the Cahill Expressway. 
But let me go further than that. It is my view that, although construction of the Warringah 
Expressway is justified and although it is to be paid for by the special contributions made by those who live north of the Harbour, the provision of rail services to Dee Why and the northern area is even more justified. I have been looking in detail at the cost of providing such services. I do not think that the railway line should go over the Sydney Harbour Bridge. I say that for two reasons: Firstly, the two remaining railway tracks over the Sydney Harbour Bridge are already somewhat congested and will be required for the servicing of additional traffic on the North Shore line and perhaps for the servicing of additional traffic in the Mosman and Cremorne area; secondly, the direct route to the northern beach suburbs does not seem to me to be properly over the Sydney Harbour Bridge. My view is that we should have a direct railway line as far as Dee Why but not north of Dee Why because I do not think that the concentration of population north of Dee Why would justify a continuation of such a railway line. Rather I think that we should keep the railway line from Dee Why in a tunnel all the way and that it should pass underneath Middle Harbour and underneath Sydney Harbour. Perhaps it could cross Sydney Harbour at a subterranean level not very far from where the present Bridge crosses. 
I have gone into the cost of doing this. Some time ago I received a quote that tunnels could be constructed, apart from the disposal of the spoil which should not cost anything because the spoil itself is valuable, at $lm per tunnel mile of railway for a single line. There are good reasons for constructing not double tunnels but single tunnels. Firstly, single tunnels are better because they are more adapted to the new tunnelling modes, which require a circular tunnel. Secondly, because the ground is more competent, to use an engineer's phrase, in the smaller diameter tunnel it will maintain itself better than in a larger diameter tunnel. Thirdly, the ventilation problems are less with a single tunnel than with a double tunnel because as the train nearly fills the tunnel it carries air with it and provides automatic ventilation. 
I have been looking at the railway lines in existence in Sydney. Honourable members may or may not know that there is a disused railway tunnel which runs underground through St James Station and nearly to the Conservatorium It was originally planned by Bradfield and constructed a long time ago. He believed that it should loop underneath Sydney and come out underneath at Wynyard Station, I suggest that this disused tunnel should be linked to a new railway line, which should run underneath Sydney Harbour and underneath Middle Harbour to as far as Dee Why. That can be done very economically because the stations themselves can be built into the topography and can be only a very short distance from the surface, although the majority of the line could be kept in the sandstone and could be built, as I have suggested, very cheaply. 
I would think that the cost estimate that I was given some time ago, of $lm per single tunnel mile, should now be escalated, by reason of the inflation that has occurred, to somewhere in the neighbourhood of Sl.Sm per single tunnel mile. That is exclusive, of course, of the cost of rolling stock and stations. But there should not be many stations, and the rolling stock would have to be provided anyway. There are good positions for all the stations and good positions for a terminal and for a bus interchange. It seems to me that the economical thing to do is to go under Sydney Harbour and Middle Harbour and to keep in the sandstone, which is horizontally bedded and very suitable for railway tunnels. There are only the 2 small crossings- they are quite short crossingsin which the metal tubes would have to be provided, as has been done by quite conventional construction methods, for example, in New York in the crossing of the rivers on either side of Manhattan Island. It seems to me that this is the proper solution for the traffic difficulties of my electorate and for the northern suburbs of Sydney. If this were done, the remainder of the traffic difficulties for the northern suburbs, the North Shore line and the Mosman-Cremorne area would fall into place because they could be serviced by existing facilities. 
As honourable members probably know, the sandstone on which Sydney is built is horizontally bedded. It is very suitable for this tunnelling method and there are only quite small gaps where one crosses Middle Harbour and Sydney Harbour. These mud-filled gaps were excavated by the streams at the time of the Ice Age low, probably 15,000 to 30,000 years ago, and they are comparatively narrow. The whole of the engineering problems concerned with this are quite minor. If this were done we could have an interchange station. 
I am sorry, I should have liked to develop this further and I hoped I might have an opportunity to do so. I have outlined to the Committee the kind of thing that should be done. 
The United Nations is a most important institution. I think it is in many ways desirable that we should have Australians elected to positions of influence in that organisation. I am just a little worried sometimes as to whether we might not be paying too high a price for that very commendable objective. I am not referring to the possibility of the elevation of  Senator Willesee  to the position of  President  of the United Nations. As honourable members will very well remember, the election to the presidency of that body will be arranged by the bloc of the Western European and Other nations, and what we do inside that bloc to promote  Senator Willesee  does not very much prejudice the Australian interests in other respects. I am referring to a possible election which might not be confined to that bloc, and that is the possible election of the Secretary-General of the United Nations. In that regard I am wondering whether Australian policy may not be prejudiced in other ways by the desire to get the present Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  elected to that exalted office. 
-No, I am being serious about this. Election to that office is determined not by the Western European and Other nations bloc; it is determined by the United Nations as a whole. One knows that on the United Nations as a whole the communist nations and some of the African nations have the numbers. They have, in crude terms, the voting faculties. 
I am just wondering- perhaps the Government can give me the information about thiswhether Australian policy may not be deflected in a pro-communist way for the purpose of facilitating the chances of the present Prime Minister to be elected as Secretary of the United Nations. I refer to such things as the Ermolenko affair, which was very hard to understand; to the recognition of the incorporation of the Baltic States, de jure, into the Soviet Union, which was almost impossible to understand; to discriminatory help given to certain organisations in Africa which are called liberation movements but which are actually rather communist inclined; to the incident, which I cannot, of course, go into much further because of the security aspects, of the refusal of asylum to a diplomat from the Eastern European communist bloc in Australia only recently. I wonder whether these incidents add up to an attempt to further the prospects of the present Prime Minister in a possible election of Secretary of the United Nations. I think it is desirable, of course, that we should have an Australian in that post. There are many people who would even think it desirable that the Prime Minister should leave his present post. But these things are trivial compared to the deflection of Australian policy in the communist interest. I refer most specifically to the way in which we seem to be denying to refugees from the Soviet bloc the asylum to which they are properly entitled here in the Australian community. I raise these questions; no doubt the Government will have some answer. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation on a small point of misrepresentation. 
-Yes. I felt personally offended by the reference of the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  during his speech to 1 1 widows trained under the widows training scheme. As a former Minister in charge of that scheme, I say that this is grossly untrue. 

 -Mr Speaker, may I seek the indulgence of the Chair? 
Earlier during the second reading debate the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  made the mistaken remark that an unnecessary delay would be occasioned if this Bill were amended to allow widowers and deserted husbands to obtain pensions on the same basis as widows and deserted wives. I point out that no such delay is necessary. A few moments ago  Mr Speaker  read out a message from the GovernorGeneral recommending an appropriation. That message having been read out, a motion can be moved forthwith to make the necessary amendment to the Bill, but in terms of standing order 292 it can be moved only by a Minister. It is not competent for anybody but a Minister to move such a motion. The Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  can move it here and now. If he wants to consult his Caucus on this matter he can move the motion tomorrow. I am willing to wait a day. A delay of one day will make no difference because there are no pension payment days until next week and it is not proposed to pay the increases under this Bill until next week. That being so, there is no reason why the Minister should not move the necessary amendment either here and now or, if he prefers to consult his Caucus first, move it tomorrow. 
The financial stringencies which might well have been upon him at the time the Budget was framed some months ago are there no longer. I point out to the Minister that it is not a case of priorities any more when we are talking about only a smaller matter. The increased payments would involve perhaps $25m for a full year and far less for the remainder of this year. There is no reason why an amendment cannot be moved now. If the Minister is really compassionate and he has this hectoring self-righteousness which the endeavours to use in order to cover up his own deficiencies - 
I think it is very illustrative - 
I move: 
That all words after 'that' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: 'prior to the second reading of this Bill this House requests the Government to consent to the incorporation in it of a provision making widowers and deserted husbands with dependent children eligible for benefit on the same basis as widows and deserted wives '. 
I know that when those representing the supporting fathers organisation were in Canberra a couple of months ago they saw many members on both sides of the House. Many of those members promised to support them in their request which is what is incorporated in the amendment that I have moved. I will refer to it in more detail later. 
At this point, let me say that, in spite of moving this amendment, I very much support everything in the Bill. I am not trying to criticise any part of what is in the Bill. I join with the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  in criticising rather what it leaves undone. I think it is rather unfair of the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  to take the sanctimonious line that he adopts by saying: 'You were the Government for 23 years. Why did you not do this, that or the other?' While we were the Government, we brought in consistent improvements in the whole social services structure. Certainly in the years when I was Minister for Social Services there was a continuous improvement. We did not do everything that we would want to do. But I believe that social services should be continuously improved. As the standard of living of the community rises and as its productive facilities increase, so concurrently can we raise from time to time the whole structure of our social services. The fact that we did not do everything then is no criticism at all. This is the type of sanctimonious nonsense that the Minister seems to emit at the slightest provocation. 
The amendment that I have moved embodies by no means the only provision that I believe should be incorporated in this Bill. What it proposes represents the next action that would have been taken if I had remained Minister and we had remained the Government. It was the next cab off the rank. I am distressed now that for nearly 2 years the Government has done nothing about it. Its introduction is overdue. This is what we would have done next in our general plan to improve the structure of social services. One does not seek to amend the whole of the Bill. One knows that there must be limits perhaps even now, although the financial limits are by no means as stringent as they were two or three months ago. One does not propose to do at once everything that one would like to do. But surely this small provision can be made. Surely the Minister's pride is not so great that he cannot bend a little. Surely there is someone in Caucuseven in the Labor Caucus- who is not entirely inflexible and who knows that this is the right action to take. If so many honourable members on the Government side promised the supporting fathers representatives when they came to Canberra that they would help them, surely they will be grateful for the opportunity to vote here in the House tonight and to make their words good. 
I have said that I regard some parts of this Bill, other than the omission with respect to widowers, with considerable satisfaction. I do so firstly because they embody the proposals made by our Party and put out officially by it. I do not in any sense denigrate the Minister for stealing our proposals; that is not the point. The point is not who introduces these proposals; the point is that they should be introduced. Do not let us try to compete and to make pensions a political football. 
I am glad that our policy has been adopted. I do not use any denigrating terms about anybody stealing it. We are glad. It may well have been Labor Party policy too. I am especially glad that some of the proposals in this Bill represent the unfinished business that I left when I ceased to be Minister. I am glad that the present Minister has had access to some of the proposals which I suggested at that stage, and which he knew were then in the pipeline, and that they are adopted. I am happy also that one of my notices of motion for discussion as General Business has been anticipated to some extent. I proposed to ask for a reconsideration of the means test on supplementary assistance. The most, but not the only, vicious part of that means test was the way it bore against sheltered workshops. One of the proposals in this Bill is to amend that position to some extent but not entirely. 
Sitting suspended from 6.15 to 8 p.m. 
-As I was saying before the suspension of the sitting, this Bill deals with a number of minor matters, each one of which is well worthy of support and some of which do not go far enough. It is not, of course, a case of priorities in the same sense as it was a couple of months ago because we have moved now from an excess demand to a deficit demand situation. As I said in another place at another time, the liquidity of the banking system will require further bolstering if we are to avoid squeezes and bankruptcy. One of the ways of doing this- not the only one but in some respects a good one- is by increasing the federal deficit. I do not think that the increases in social services payments would have undesirable side effects in that regard. 
Some of these proposals in this Bill are not as generous as they look. For example, let me take the raising of the child's allowance from $5 to $5.50. This is a 10 per cent increase, but to get back to the real purchasing power and what was the real value when the Liberal-Country Party government went out of office would require an increase of at least 40 per cent. So even with this new 50c, the child's allowance in terms of purchasing power will be far below what it was when we were in office. If the Minister only wanted to maintain the status quo he would have to increase it not from $5 to $5.50 but from $5 to $7. With Supplementary Assistance the 25 per cent increase from $4 to $5 in the basic rate again will not compensate for the rise in costs, so that people on supplementary assistance will not on the whole be better off but worse off. The Minister has failed to maintain the status quo; he has gone back. It is not as good as it used to be and, whereas we ought to have social services moving forward, in this respect they have moved back. Indeed, I am by no means certain that what the Minister is going to spend on Supplementary Assistance swings he will not save on the roundabouts because there is this hidden little barb in his proposals that Supplementary Assistance shall not exceed the rent paid. I know that existing pensioners are not to be penalised under the Bill and I do not say that the Minister's policy is wrong, but he has covered up some features of it and has rather tended, I am afraid, to deceive the pensioners. There is a takeaway as well as a give in the Minister's proposals. 
Indeed, the basic pension rate is not as good as the Minister would have us believe. A few moments ago the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  drew attention to this aspect. With the slide in real values and the rise in prices, by the next time we come for an adjustment the basic pension rate as a proportion of average weekly earnings will be down to about what it was when the Liberal Government went out of office and perhaps even below. It is a little hard to forecast future rises in prices but I will be publishing, I hope in the near future, some detailed statistical information in regard to this and I can assure the House that I have some substantial backing for what I am saying now. The basic pension rate which the Minister boasts of is by no means as good as he would have it. 
As I have said, this miscellaneous collection of social service benefits, each of them good, adds up to something like $20m for this year. That is not very much in the total Budget expenditure and I think it is rather ungenerous considering that the basic rate as a proportion of average weekly earnings has not gone up much and some social services are losing in value. As I think the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  pointed out, by reason of the rising prices in some respects the means test on pensioners is now even more restrictive than it used to be. 
I suppose I can mention- although I am now talking about things of a different order of magnitudethe major defects in our social service structure, the ones which the previous Government was progressively curing but which still seem to be untouched. Particularly, of course, there is the position of the young and forming family. I was interested to hear, I think it was the honourable member for Corio, talking about family endowment for the first child. He may not remember that this was brought in by the Liberal government in the teeth of quite determined opposition from the Labor Party at the time.. That was in 1950. The Labor Party in its policy would have given nothing and it fought us tooth and nail when we proposed to endow the first child. 
I think we should be doing something about the rates and taxes and other outgoings for pensioners who own their own homes, not perhaps by way of grant but in the way that it is done in the United Kingdom, for example- by making financial accommodation available to them and leaving the repayment until after death or, indeed, until after the death of the last survivor of a married couple. This is something which I believe could be done now without any great expense. I have a question on the notice paper about the means test for invalid and widow pensioners. I will not go into this in detail now but I point out that this is intimately tied up with a proper scheme for national compensation. It is rather imprudent of the Government to have a compensation Bill before the House without fixing up at the same time this anomalous position of the means test as it presses on invalid and widow pensioners. 
There is also the loss of momentum in the aged persons homes provision. Pensioners have many needs, but on the whole I should think that their greatest need is proper accommodation at a low price. The previous Government created and was carrying forward at an accelerating pace the aged persons homes scheme. That has lost momentum and the statistics will show the extent to which it has lost momentum under this Government. Here again, the Government has tended to cheat the age pensioner without making clear what it is doing. It has slurred over its deficiencies and trumpeted about its so-called generosity which, when one comes to analyse it, does not amount to very much because all that it is giving, great in money terms as it is, has been eroded away and sometimes more than eroded away by the rise in prices and in average earnings which has worsened the comparative status of the pensioner. 
I come now to the amendment which I have moved and which I hope the House will carry. I will not repeat what I said on Thursday morning during private members business when I moved a motion in regard to this matter. I thought it was rather mean and underhand of the Government to endeavour to sidetrack that motion by a rather transparent device. I am glad that now we are bringing this specific question to a vote. We have, I think, got round the rather devious tricks of the Government and we are bringing the thing out into the open honestly as it should be and people can vote on it one way or the other. 
The cost of this proposal is not altogether certain. The Minister has given a cost of $3Sm in a full year. My own view- I say this after having had some experience in the Department and having had access to the relevant figures- is that the cost would be more in the order of $20m in a full year. Neither the Minister nor myself can give actual specific details of how this can be costed, because the cost will depend upon the decision which widowers make as to whether they will take advantage of this or whether they will be ruled out by the operation of the means test. As I have said, there is a genuine area of uncertainty here. I put the cost at $20m for a full yearprobably $10m or $ 11m for this year- and the Minister puts the cost considerably higher at $35m for the full year and perhaps $20m to $22m for this year. If it were made taxable, as it well might be, one could deduct at least 33 per cent from those amounts that have been given either by the Minister or myself. So, I am not talking about any big sum of money. I am talking about the necessity to plug what is a relatively small but very grievous gap in our whole structure of social services. 
The Minister can say what he likes. He can ask why we did not do it and so on. I can assure him that we were doing things from time to time. Very many of them, as he well knows, he tried to stigmatise as categorisation. I think he is a little sorry he used that word now, but it seemed to tip off his tongue at the time. We had a number of progressive measures and this one was the next cab off the rank. It is getting on for 2 years overdue. What we are proposing, of course, is not a final scheme but it is what the Supporting Fathers Association asked for as a first step, and as such those members who have made promises to representatives of the Association when they came to see them here can now show by their votes in this House whether they are men of their word. It will be simple and it will be illustrative to see which members of the Labor Party who have given pledges to get votes will now cross the floor and vote on a social service matter in accordance with their conscience. 
-That is a very illustrative interjection. 

 -Mr Speaker - 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Original question put. 
That the motion  (Mr Lionel Bowen's)  be agreed to. 
This is an enormous Bill,  Mr Speaker,  and I say that not only because of the thousands of millions of dollars involved but also because of the impact of the Bill on the whole structure not only of our social services but also of Australian society. I remember when a much less important Bill relating to compensation for Commonwealth employees was introduced by the previous Government. I remember the way in which that Bill was argued and referred back in draft from time to time. The present Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  at one stage produced an entirely new Bill. A tremendous amount of time was given by this House not only to debate but to reconsideration after debate, and that was a trivial Bill compared to the Bill that is now before the House. 
I must confess that I feel some doubts about this Bill. It has many good features and many that I would support; but I believe that it has some inherent defects and I should like to hear a great deal more argument to clear my own mind as to the correct course to take. I think that perhaps on a parliamentary scale, not on an industrial scale, I would have more experience in this area than anybody at present in the House. As I have said, I do not feel confident enough at the present moment to say exactly what should be done. I know there are many good features in the Bill before the House but I believe there are many bad features also. 
I want to point out an implication which may have escaped my friends in the Government opposite. This is a Bill which goes to the root of our whole social service structure. Invalid pensions, for example, are paid for the most part to people who qualify after they have reached a mature age; that is the majority. So most of the people qualifying for invalid pensions from now on would be qualified for benefits under this Bill. But under this Bill payments are going to be made in relation to income. Would honourable members opposite have supported the proposition that invalid pensions should be paid at a higher rate to those people who had had a previous higher income? That is what they are supporting in this Bill, and they have not realised it. They have not realised that they are saying that invalid pensions should be paid at a small rate to a poor man and at a high rate to a rich man. That is inherent in the structure of the Bill and because honourable members have not had time to go over it I am quite certain that my friends opposite do not realise what they are voting for. They do not realise that they are voting for a change in social service structure which means that pensions will be payable at a high rate to rich people and at a low rate to poor people. 
Taking widows pensions, the same principle applies. I look to the second reading speech of the Minister and I find in it these words: 
The Bill provides for payment of benefits to widows and other dependants of persons who die from injury or sickness. 
As for people under the age of sixty-five, I do not know of anybody who dies from anything else except injury or sickness. It is almost equivalent to one honourable member saying that imports come from abroad. So we are talking about everybody who dies; we are talking about all new qualifying widows, and we are saying that for the future the widow of a rich man is going to get a high pension and the widow of a poor man is going to get a low pension. That is in the Bill as it is, and I am quite certain that this was not appreciated by honourable members in the Government opposite. 
-Exactly, it is a compensation Bill, and the principles of compensation have been extended by this Bill to the whole of the social service structure. Honourable members opposite do not realise what they have done, because I am quite certain that they would not have done this if they had realised the implications of what is in the Bill. 
I am simply saying that these things, which are matters of major principle, have got to be reconsidered. In a sense, this Bill is the most regressive taxation Bill that has ever been brought into an Australian parliament. I do not say that it is necessarily good or necessarily bad for that reason. All I say is that this aspect of the Bill has not been appreciated by honourable members opposite who have sponsored it. No doubt with the best of intentions, and I think most of us in this House have good intentions, the Government has rushed into something ill-considered and ill-conceived. The Bill does have some very good features which should be supported, and this is the difficulty in which all honourable members find themselves. I do not say that a government can be all wise and can bring in a major Bill of this character which is right at first pop. It may well be wrong on the first draft, but with these Bills which are fundamental to our social structure the ideal procedure is that they should be debated inconclusively, lie on the table perhaps for 6 months, and then after representations have been made by all the interested people they should be reconsidered and perhaps redrafted. That is what should happen with this Bill. 
Among those bodies which will be interested mainly are the trade unions. Very often the trade unions interfere in matters in which they are not competent and where they have not got authority, but in this Bill the trade unions have a very real function and a very real part. This is a Bill which affects their members in ways for which they are responsible. The question of compensation for union members is something which is properly dear to the heart of every trade unionist and they have not had adequate consultation as yet. I do not know what view they would be pressing. I do know that some of them have been consulted but many have not, and many of them are now expressing doubts that something that has been put over them. I do not use that phrase in a bad sense. The trade unions just have not understood because, in its haste, the Government is rushing this Bill through without adequately considering what is involved in it. 
Did the Government know? I do not think it did. I do not think it realised the feature of regressive taxation in this Bill. I do not think honourable members opposite realised that they were proposing to pay widows' and invalid pensions at a high rate to rich people, at a low rate to poor people. Then there are extraordinary capricious features in the Bill. The top $500 a week is contrasted with the miserable $50 a week that is going to be the base of computation for a woman or a housewife. It is a quite ridiculous spread. The difference between $500 a week and $50 a week is too great to be covered by this Bill. 
If one looks at clause 27 of the Bill one will see that it provides for the income to be based on the earnings over a period of 4 weeks. What about the poor unfortunate man who happens to be changing his job or out of work for three or four weeks? What is to happen to him? This is a matter of detail, of course- capricious. I notice that sickness after the age of 65 years does not qualify one for a benefit. I do not know whether this means continuing a benefit or a new benefit. I think that probably- again the drafting of the Bill is a little sloppy and I am not quite clear as to what it means- it means only new benefit, qualifying benefit. But an injury after 65 years of age apparently still counts. Here we are getting into the whole question of the age pension structure and how that is affected. 
I think that the most fundamental mistake has been the endeavour to extend into the social services field principles which have been worked out in relation to the workers compensation field and the motor car accident field. The Government has not realised that in trying to bring in those principles that are applicable to workers compensation and motor car accidents it was making a fundamental mistake, perhaps the greatest mistake that has ever been made in the structure of our social services. I do not quite know how that escaped the Government's attention, but apparently it did. Then we have the question of no fault. Of course, that is something which is desirable and which I, at first glance at any rate, would support. It may be hard to work out in detail. But this concept of a pension variable in relation to earnings, appropriate for compensation purposes as it is, and accepted as such for compensation purposes in the various arrangements that have been made in the States and elsewhere, seems to be inappropriate when one is talking about widows pensions and invalid pensions. The Government should have a careful look at that. 
Above everything, of course, this is a Bill which must be examined thoroughly in the Committee stage. I think that in the first run-through, which will start in the House in a few moments time, we should look very carefully at each individual clause. If the House is to do this Bill justice it will take many hours and perhaps days to do that. This is some of the most important and far-reaching legislation that we have ever had and we cannot, injustice to ourselves, rush it through. In the Committee stage of the debate we should look at every clause. In a sense this is a Committee Bill but it is not a Bill which, even when we have been through it in Committee, we should try to finalise now because when we start to look at the detailed clauses we will find- I have given some instances- that there will be matters of major principle arising and we may have to re-think some of* our major principles in our consideration of details. 
We should surely adopt the principle that we have always adopted in the past when Bills which go right to the root of our social structure are under consideration by the House, namely, we should look at this Bui carefully, debate it, talk about it, and go through it in detail but not finalise it. Do not let us finalise it. Let us leave it on the table for a while to enable the interested bodies, particularly the trade unions, to have a chance of putting forward their views. This is a field in which it is very appropriate and proper that the views of the trade unions should be listened to. I support very much the idea that, after debate in this House and examination of the clauses in Committee, this Bill should go to a select committee. I think the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  suggested that it should be a joint committee of this House and the Senate. I hope that the Government will see fit to move in that direction. I believe that we have to spend time on this matter. This is one of the most important Bills we have had before us in which matters of detail are of crucial importance because from those matters of detail will also emerge matters of major principle. 
I think that if Robert Browning had been in this House he would have referred to the blessed mutter of the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  No doubt the Minister got through the amendments and explanations as quickly as he could. But really this is the first we have ever heard of these explanations. We are supposed to take them all in. The Minister is treating the Committee with utter and complete contempt. It is worse than that. This Bill does not become operative effectively until July 1976. There is not any real hurry or urgency. The Minister and the Government are using the sick and injured in this community as a stalking horse for their plans in the Senate. It is one of the most contemptible and roguish things that could possibly be imagined. 
In spite of the patching up of the Bill by these 47 amendments- it is almost like one of the Heinz advertisements- the Bill is still very sloppy. I refer, purely as an example, to clause 27. It states: 
If, during the period of 4 weeks immediately before the day on which his incapacity commenced, a person derived earnings as an employee ... his weekly income for the purposes of this section is one-quarter of the amount of his earnings as an employee during that period. 
What happens to a man who is employed for one week out of those four? He still comes under the operation of this very sloppily drawn clause. I do not imagine that the Government meant this. It is just bad draftsmanship. He comes under the operation of that clause and he loses three-quarters of his entitlement. Hundreds of things in this Bill should be thus corrected. 
I turn to clause 14 of the Bill which my friend, the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Macphee),  mentioned a moment ago. I think that it goes beyond even what he was saying. Clause 13 removes the benefits of this Bill, not from persons who are the victims of crime but persons who commit certain crimes. A person who commits murder, malicious wounding or piracy, or endangers life on a vehicle or commits mutiny against the master of a ship or aircraft, does not benefit under this Bill. But a person who is injured in the course of committing a crime such as theft, rape or some other crime not named in the Bill- perhaps highway robbery- is apparently eligible for benefits under this Bill. Can you have anything more ridiculous? I do not know whether the people who drew up this Bill really meant that Surely it is the height of absurdity to think that a person who is injured committing a crime can be the recipient of benefitsperhaps quite considerable benefits- from the public purse. I suppose he will be able to plead his income as a burglar as the foundation of his benefit and that he would be able to say: 'If I committed the Great Train Robbery I am entitled to very considerable benefit. ' 
-No doubt the honourable member for Hunter has read the Bill as carefully as I have and he will know that it depends on the person's earnings. This comes under clause 28 of the Bill. The person's average earnings over the past year is used as a basis for determining weekly earnings. So if a burglar has had a very, very successful year and happens to fall from the second storey of a building and injures his back he will be on a pretty good pension for life under the provisions of this Bill. The thing is utterly absurd. I,do not know whether the draftsmen of this Bill meant this or whether they were just being careless. 
But the real trouble is this. We are not allowed in this chamber to examine the Bill. Only a few minutes remain until the time allotted by the Government for the consideration of this Bill in this chamber runs out. We have no opportunity of examining and correcting these many and monstrous errors of drafting occurring in this Bill. For example, what about the qualifying age in clause 4 of the Bill. Why has nothing been put in in regard to the position of a full-time apprentice, for example? Anyone would think that a good trade union would be looking after the apprentices, but apparently an apprentice does not come within these provisions unless he is over the age of 18 years or he has a certain income. I do think that it would improve the Bill to put just the simple words 'an apprentice' into the definition clause. Maybe these are constructive and minor things, but there are many of them. 
I am wondering about the definition of 'employee' which includes a member of the defence forces. This means, for example, that an officer on a higher salary would receive a much greater compensation for injury than a private. It may be that this is what the Government intends. I suppose you could even argue that it was right and proper, but I do not think that the members on the Government side understand quite what they are voting for in this regard. It has usually been thought that there is some kind of equality and comradeship in the defence forces. 
I am not happy about the date of commencement of the provisions of this legislation. It has been pointed out in this place that there is some constitutional doubt as to the validity of this Bill and that if the High Court decides that the Bill does not abolish common law rights and clauses 92 and so on of the Bill are therefore invalid, very grave consequences will occur to the Australian economy. I am wondering whether the suggestions of the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  about the commencement of the legislation might not have received more consideration from the Government. But basically it comes down to this. I will not go through the very, very many matters of detail which could be raised and should have been raised if there had been time for adequate debate. The Government is doing something phoney and dishonest. The Government has put in a completely dishonest motion which says that this is an urgent Bill. It is not an urgent Bill at all. Under the Government's own plans it does not operate until July 1976. 
Indeed, I find myself well rebuked in that matter. One must not reflect on the decisions of a House which is the creature of the Labor Caucus. 
-My question is directed to the Prime Minister. It refers to 3 incidents: First, to his visit on 2 June 1972 to the preliminary meeting of what was to become the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union council in order to solicit funds for the Australian Labor Party; secondly, to a list of 33 key members of the AMWU organisation who are known communists, as shown in the House on 1 6 October - 
I move: 
That, in the opinion of this House, restrictions upon the granting of supplementary assistance to pensioners are too severe. 
There are not more than a few moments available to me and I hope to continue this at a later time. The House is probably aware of the position in regard to supplementary assistance. Recently the Government raised the rate of supplementary assistance to $5 a week but left unchanged the means test upon it. The means test at present is- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Luchetti)Order! The time allotted for precedence to general business has expired. The honourable member for Mackellar will have leave to continue his speech when the debate is resumed. The resumption of the debate will be made an order of the day under General Business for the next day of sitting. 

 -Mr Speaker- 

Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  agreed to: 
That the question now be put. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 

 -Mr Speaker, this Bill- 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 -Mr Speaker- 

Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
-I was most interested to hear the honourable member for Banks  (Mr Martin),  who has just resumed his seat, defending the 2-airline policy and pledging his support to that policy. It is a great relief to us to hear that all members on the Government side are not dedicated to the destruction of private enterprise absolutely. I can only say that I think it was courageous of the honourable member for Banks to speak in this way because I think it may be in contravention of the received doctrine in the Australian Labor Party platform. He may indeed have endangered his preselection at the hands of the moguls of the ALP by giving vent to sentiments which, however commendable, seem to me to be at variance with the platform of the ALP. But I let that pass, simply saying that I was happy to hear the remarks of the honourable member for Banks. I think it was courageous of him to take a line which is an heretical line, if I may so call it, in relation to the platform of his own Party. There is rejoicing on this side of the House at even one lost lamb coming over to the Opposition side and seeing the light. 
Honourable members speaking to this legislation have tended to concentrate on the technicalities of the airline. I intend to say something rather about the substance of the legislation itself and the technicalities not so much of the airline as of the raising of finance in a way which this legislation authorises and indeed which is the object of this legislation. First, I ask the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  a question: How does this procedure fit in with the Loan Council arrangements and the Financial Agreement with the States? I have no doubt that the Treasury has looked at this aspect very carefully and I have no doubt that the provisions of the agreement are being kept, but I would just like to know- I would like the Minister to tell me specifically- how this legislation fits in with the Financial Agreement and the obligations of the Commonwealth Government in respect of the Loan Council. 
This virtually is an agreement or a proposal for raising debenture money overseas. As such I think it is to be commended at the present juncture, because there is no doubt that the Government by its refusal up to now to allow such money to come in has been responsible for the credit squeeze and responsible therefore for the tragic unemployment we are experiencing in the community. I do not want to say that the Government planned this unemployment directly. I do not know whether it did or did not. It may be that the Government is talking with 2 voices and really meant to cause unemployment in order to control the economy in the Labor way. I do not charge this directly against the Government because it may not be so. It may be that the credit squeeze and the unemployment which has followed have simply occurred because the Government was incompetent; that members of the Government were fools and not evil doers; that they did not understand the consequences of their actions and for that reason we have been faced in Australia with a massive wave of unemployment, the worst which we have ever had. It is no good for the Government to say: 'We did not mean to do it. Labor never wants to have unemployment'. The plain brute fact is that by its mishandling of the financial situation, which comes right back to what is contained in this legislation, the Government has created in Australia the greatest wave of unemployment that we have ever had. 
Sitting suspended from 6.14 to 8 p.m. 
When the House rose for dinner I was speaking on the Loans (Australian National Airlines Commission) Bill. I have now been asked to defer the rest of my remarks so that the Prime Minister may make a statement and it is my intention in a moment to do so. I believe the Prime Minister should be given an opportunity to apologise to Australia for his gross deception at the May elections when he promised full employment, reasonable interest rates and stabilising prices. I believe the Prime Minister - 

 - Mr Speaker, I was speaking on the airlines Bill and I have - 
-I was speaking before the suspension on the airlines Bill, and if the House would like me to continue my remarks for a quarter of an hour I shall do so. But in deference to the Prime Minister I would be happy to defer to him. After all, he should be given an opportunity to announce the retreat from Moscow. 
-I am only trying to meet the wishes of the Prime Minister. 

 - Sir, I agree with you. I am just trying to give the Prime Minister a chance to apologise. I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later hour this evening. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
Among the many reversals of Government policy are the ones inherent in the Bill now before the House. That Bill relates primarily to borrowing overseas by a government agency. I know that the whole economic policy of the Government is now in tatters. We have seen our local Napoleon just make his retreat from Moscow. 
I would like the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  if he would not mind to explain to me the way in which this Bill meshes in with the Loan Council arrangements of the Government. I am quite certain, of course, that this has already been foreseen and I would just like to know what the mechanism is. I have looked at the Financial Agreement and I looked at the Schedule to the Act, at Part III and particularly at the clauses which describe the borrowing when there is not a unanimous resolution and so on. Perhaps the Treasurer will tell us how these matters were dealt with at the Loan Council. I am certain that this has been covered, but I would like to know how it has been covered. 
I want to make some remarks about meat. I wish to point to 2 salient things and to try to draw from them a conclusion. It is generally true that when commodities are in short supply the price goes up and when they are in more easy supply the price goes down. That is the normal law of supply and demand. The supply of meat is regulated very largely by the seasons, so one would expect that when the season is good the price of meat would fall and when the season is bad the price of meat would rise. But this is exactly the contrary to what we observe, and for a very simple reason. When the season is good graziers do not want to turn off their stock. They have grass and the supply dries up. When the season is bad, on the contrary, the graziers find that they have not feed for their stock and supply over a short term tends to increase. 
So, we have this very peculiar situation with regard to meat. Of course the lifetime of a beast under slaughter goes over more than one season. This is the case usually with most animals. We have this rather peculiar situation that a good season means higher prices, other things being equal, and a bad season means lower prices. This is just the opposite to what would be expected at first sight. It is this disparity, this lack of phasing between the seasonal condition and the price, which is the engine driving what is known as the cow cycle which has the effect, as every member of the Country Party would well know, of getting the numbers of cattle througout the world up and down in fairly wide amplitudes of fluctuation. This is something which it is most important to keep in mind when we are looking at a proper meat policy. 
I put this against a second fact which is, I should think, known to most honourable members in this House. In recent years the practice known as feed lotting has grown in various parts of the world. The cattle are brought in from their range and are finished off by grain feeding in a feed lot. This has happened to a small extent in Australia but it has happened to a far larger extent in Europe, Japan and the United States. In those countries a large proportion of finished cattle have come from feed lots. They have been fed with grain. Much of the grain originates from the United States. Coarse feed grains have been one of the United States main exports. Farmers in Japan, for example, instead of going out of business have imported grain, under various tariff and other arrangements, and have become feed lotters. The area in Japan is, of course, limited and the faculties for range feeding are much less. When grain is fed to cattle the resultant meat has perhaps only one-quarter of the gross nutriment that the grain had. It goes from onequarter to perhaps as low as one-seventh, but it is quite a small proportion. The protein may be of better quality. It may have some qualities that the grain did not have, but there is much less of it. 
Now, when by reason of the failure of crops in the Northern Hemisphere and the greater demand for grain because of the increased population, we are suddenly faced with a grain crisis which has meant that the price of grain has gone up very considerably. Because of this feed lotting throughout the world is now uneconomic except in quite extraordinary conditions- perhaps as a way of saving cattle in drought, as a way of utilising pastures through mechanical reaping near the point of feed lotting. Of course there is one important exception which we in Australia are inclined to forget, that is, that in a great deal of the Northern Hemisphere there is snow cover and during the winter months feeding of cattle is necessary as a normal practice on a scale which does not occur in Australia and which we really do not think about to any great degree. We have some cold country and some snow cover but nothing like what occurs in some of the countries of Europe, in Canada and in the northern part of the United States. 
I put these 2 propositions together now. When, by reason of failure of crops in the Northern Hemisphere and increasing population, grain has become very short, feed lotting becomes highly unprofitable and farmers are throwing meat on to the market because they cannot profitably maintain it. In these circumstances the price has fallen. But this is not, I think, a long term performance. I think the price of grain will stay up. I think that feed lotting is not likely to be profitable anywhere on the same scale as it has been in recent years. But the cattle numbers will decrease throughout the world. The cow cycle will operate and sooner or later- it may be a year or two years ahead- there will be a tremendous shortage of meat. If this is so we should be financing farmers to keep their herds. 
-Yes, their breeding stock, particularly their females. And we should be doing everything we can- I think my friends in the Australian Country Party have mentioned this previously- to preserve meat whether it be by freezing, by tinning, by drying or whatever kind of process may be available. I do not see any immediate help from the market for the meat industry. I think it may have even worse times ahead of it. I think we should be looking to the long term and we should have an agricultural POliCY in Australia which looks to that long term and takes farmers out of this short term trough. These are matters which require a great deal more consideration. I have been able in the short time allotted to me- I see my time is now running out- only to touch on these matters very tightly. I just say finally that when one looks at the figures the so-called mountain of beef in Europe is not so big. I am told it is of the order of 200,000 tons which is just about 1 lb a head for the population of Europe. That is not very much when one looks at it in those terms. But what is much more likely - 
-My question is directed to the Prime Minister and relates to the policy of tariff slashing. Does the Prime Minister recall on 24 September the taped 'AM' broadcast- I have the exact quote here- in which he supported the concept that tariff slashing was to be commended even though it meant a certain amount of unemployment and characterised as 'nervous Nellies' those people who were frightened of a certain amount of unemployment? I ask: Since he reversed so many of his policies last night, does he now number himself among the 'nervous Nellies'? 
-On 23 September of this year, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  was present at a dinner hosted by the Heavy Engineering Manufacturers Association. He made certain remarks which were reported in the Australian Broadcasting Commission program 'AM ' the following day. He said that he was a strong supporter of the Rattigan plan for rationalising industries, that is, for closing down inefficient industries and making their members unemployed. He castigated as 'nervous Nellies' those who were frightened of the consequences. The Prime Minister then went on to say: 'Do not exaggerate. It is not as bad as people say-that 900 people were laid off in Launceston. Only 360 were laid off. ' 
This morning I asked the Prime Minister a question relating to the policy of tariff slashing. I asked whether he recalled the 'A.M.' broadcast in which he supported the concept that the tariff slashing was to be commended even though it meant a certain amount of unemployment and he categorised as 'nervous Nellies' those people who were frightened of a certain amount of unemployment. The Prime Minister denied that he had said these things. As it happened, I had in my hand the actual transcript of what he had said. But I have gone better than that. I now actually have the tape recording of what he said and I propose to play it. (The honourable member for Mackellar operating a tape recorder)- 
-Thank you for the call,  Mr Speaker.  I am sorry that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has left the chamber because I want to raise a matter now which touches upon his veracity and I was anxious that he should be here while it is raised. It is not my fault that he is not here. This is a matter of privilege. You,  Mr Speaker,  are the guardian, as you know, of the privileges of members in this House. It is very important that members in this House should be able to test the veracity of the replies made to them by Ministers, particularly by the Prime Minister. Yesterday, the Prime Minister, in answer to a question of mine, gave an account of his own speech which was untrue. 
The Prime Minister said something in this House which was untrue. I had proof that it was untrue. I had,  Sir, as  you very well know, a tape recording of the actual words uttered by the Prime Minister. A tape has entangled and tripped up a man even more important in the affairs of this world than the Prime Minister, and a tape recording does seem to have achieved some kind of international standing in a matter like this. 
Orders of the United Kingdom, states that this matter should have been brought before me yesterday or after prayers this morning at the earliest possible moment. Therefore the matter cannot be brought before me now. 

 -Mr Speaker, let me just correct you if I may, respectfully, in this matter. 
-You have not heard me on this and I am entitled to be heard, because there is one material fact which you have not yet - 
-Sir, there are facts which should be brought before - 
The fact is that the Hansard did not come into my hands until 10 minutes to eleven. 

 - Mr Speaker, a few moments ago you said from the chair that the matter should have been brought before you last night or before prayers this morning. I did go to your office and before prayers this morning I brought the matter to your notice through your officer, but materially the Hansard which verifies the matter came into my hands only at 10 minutes to eleven this morning. I would think that the matter should not be put aside on a mere technicality like this. 

 - Mr Speaker, therefore, within the Standing Orders, I give notice- I am entitled to do this- that the matter of the use of a tape recording in the House where necessary to refute the veracity of a statement made in the House by the Prime Minister be referred to the Committee of Privileges. 
I can give notice, but the matter cannot be debated immediately. I now give notice. 
I am entitled to give verbal notice. 
I have given verbal notice. 
I take your point,  Sir. I  will not be caught again. 
The whole of the Government's economic policy is now in tatters and not least its tariff policy. The tariff policy is tremendously important. I believe that the Government's action on tariffs, which is before us now, has been one of the main causes of the catastrophic unemployment which we are now suffering and which now comes over us in even greater waves. 
Last week the Prime Minister  (Mr Whilam)  speaking in relation to textiles and the motor industry, indicated some retreat. But it was a retreat too late and not a retreat which will help the people who are unemployed by reason of the Government's muddling. 
I ask the question: What has happened? I take the words of the Prime Minister which he uttered on 23 September last- only a few weeks ago- as evidence of what has happened. He said: 
I am a strong Rattigan man. I believe that Rattigan is the most rationalising force in the use of the nation's resources that any of us have known. 
He castigated the nervous Nellies, the people who would be unemployed as a result of the application of the Rattigan policies. This was what the Prime Minister said and this is the nerve of the tariff slash- this unwise tariff slash- which is evidenced in the Bills before the House. There are some people- I am not one of them; but I know there are many- who believe that we should reduce tariffs and should rationalise industry, even at the cost of some unemployment and some further dependence upon imports. That may be so and I am not going to take argument now on that main point. But what is abundantly clear is that such tariff slashing can be successful carried out, if at all, only in a bouyant economy in which there is alternative employment for people who are displaced by the squeezing out under the Rattigan principle of what are described as inefficient industries. 
The Government's great mistake has been that it tried to combine tariff slashing with a credit squeeze. This cannot be done unless the degree of unemployment that we see in Australia today is countenanced. Whilst this tariff slashing at times when the economy is buoyant is not something that I would have done- I know that many people would advocate this- the Government has tried to slash tariffs at a time when it was also applying a credit squeeze. People were left unemployed. The nervous Nellies- the people whom the Prime Minister covered with ridicule, these unfortunate unemployed- had nowhere to go. They had no other employment. Their industries closed down because of a rising flood of imports and there was no alternative employment available for them. This was the great mistake of the Government. I repeat that it tried to slash tariffs at a time when it was also squeezing credit. As a consequence unemployment emerged in a way which the Government had not anticipated. 
Certainly, it had anticipated a small amount of unemployment. This was pan of its policy, although it denied this during the Federal election campaign in May. But it was part of the Government's policy to have a small amount of unemployment. However, I do not accuse the Prime Minister of deliberately contemplating the wave of unemployment which his policies have caused. 
What do we have now? We have stop-go in excelsis on the tariff front as well as on every other economic front. I can remember how a few years ago the then Opposition castigated us as the Government for what was called stop-go and was only a moderate acceleration or braking of the economy. But today, stop-go in the strictest sense is a grim reality for the Australian people. What does this add up to? It adds up to a greater inefficiency than any that the Government set out to cure. At least the people who were in the textile, shoe and motor industries were producing something, even if they were producing it without the full efficiency the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  wants to require of them. They were producing and adding to the national wealth. But if they are sitting down doing nothing- if the lathes and the looms are idle- is that not a far greater inefficiency? The inefficiency of unemployment is a degree worse than any inefficiency the Prime Minister wanted to deplore when he called himself a Rattigan man. Furthermore, we have created for business a climate of uncertainty. Nobody knows what the Government is going to do or fail to do next. This climate of uncertainty adds to the recession; it adds to all our economic disabilities. 
We have used up our overseas reserves. I do not refer only to the comparatively small matter of a fall of $ 1,000m or so in our overseas reserves; what I refer to is far more important, and that is the fact that the continuing credit balance on current account which we left when we went out of office in 1972 has been dissipated and Australia is now, on current account, going into the international red. That stands to the discredit of this Government. The use of our reservesthe use of the favourable position which we in the Liberal and Country Parties had built up and left to the Government in 1972- is now not available. The Government has destroyed that favourable position. 

 Mi WENTWORTH- Yes, dissipated it entirely. I do not accuse the Prime Minister of evil motives although I think he can perhaps be reprimanded for saying things in the May election campaign which he knew to be untrue. But we pass that over. It is muddle and incompetence rather than evil motivation that one charges against the Prime Minister, because the Prime Minister is personally responsible for this policy. It is in black and white in the speech that he made on 23 September. It is there verbatim. It is his personal responsibility. It was he who mocked at the nervous Nellies- they now seem to have been the prudent people. It is now seen that the Nellies really had something to be nervous about because many of them are now walking about without a job and without the prospect of a job for many months. This is what this Government has done to them. 
No, I do not accuse the Prime Minister in this matter of having done it deliberately. I think he meant to have a small amount of unemployment. He did not realise it was going to get out of hand in the way it has done. But I think it a little ungenerous of him to deny what he had done. When this was brought to him in the House at question time he said: 'I did not say these things'. That was- I do not say it was a he, I say it was untrue. The Prime Minister had forgotten because - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! I think the honourable member for Mackellar would appreciate the fact that in this House it is also unparliamentary to say *I do not say it was a he'. I suggest that the honourable member does not proceed with that line of comment. 
-Very well  Sir, I  will not, but what I will say is that the Prime Minister denied in this House something which was true and proveable.  His  words are on tape. I have deposited a copy of that tape in the Parliamentary Library. It is there and everybody can hear that what the Prime Minister said in this House, when he denied that he had uttered these words, was, in point of fact, untrue. I have described this as a Freudian lapse of memory. He does not want to face the reality of what he has done. The Prime Minister does not want to contemplate the misery of the unemployment which his Government has caused and his mind retreats from it. This is a normal psychological mechanism.  His  mind retreats from the reality and he forgets his own part in it as the prime mover. But I do not accuse the Prime Minister of having caused this unemployment deliberately. 
I am not so sure about the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns).  I say this because I have looked at the things he said before he was a Minister and the things he did while he was still on the back bench of this House. If he was sincere then, and I would say that he was sincere, the Minister for Overseas Trade is now out to destroy the Australian way of life. He is a destroyera hidden destroyer perhaps- but if we are to take at face value the things he said before he was a Minister, that man, if he was sincere when he became a Minister, would, under cover, without letting it be known what he was doing, have gone out to destroy the Australian economy and create the unemployment which would bring the revolutionary situation which he himself says he desired or said he desired- because those are his own words. He is a revolutionary. He believes in smash and if he can deceive people into thinking that here is a moderate man who sympathises with and understands the businessman's problems- he is an able man who does understand- I wonder what are his motives. I look at what he said before he was a Minister and I pay him the compliment of believing that when he said these things before he was a Minister he was sincere and meant what he said. 
So I am not certain about the Minister for Overseas Trade. It may be that while he has been pretending all the time to be in favour of higher employment and cutting back the recession and things like that, under cover he has been deliberately nudging unemployment on because unemployment would fit into the pattern of the kind of things he wanted and said he wanted before he became a Minister. So I am not certain about him. I know he is an able man. I know he is a very plausible one. I know that many businessmenI think more fools they- take him at his face value. He can go to them. He can say to a big firm: 'Look, by my contacts I can get you contracts and opportunities which are worth a million dollars to you'. And what he says is true. He can give them a contract or a contact which is worth a million dollars. They say to themselves: 'What does it matter? We are practical businessmen. All we think about is that million dollars'. But I wonder whether the Minister for Overseas Trade while he is doing this has still got his mind fixed on the same kind of objective which he had and declared before he became a Minister, because if he was sincere then he must be false now, and if that is so he is sucking in the businessmen not only to their peril but to the peril of the whole of Australia. I can remember, and I quote again, the words of Lenin. These would be very well known to the Minister. 'When the time comes to deal with the capitalists they will be competing between themselves to sell us the rope with which to hang them.' I wonder whether these thoughts run through the mind of the Minister for Overseas Trade when he makes contact with businessmen and persuades them that, if they will only play along with him, he can give them something which will be to their advantage. They will be able to sell him the rope, he is buying the rope and he is offering them advantageous terms for that bit of rope. 
It is incontrovertible that there is unemployment, and a coming wave of unemployment. None of us wants this. I do not believe that the Prime Minister did it deliberately. I do not believe that most members of the Government did it deliberately. To my mind it is the result of muddle and miscalculation, not malevolence. But I sometimes wonder whether, in that inner Cabinet, there may not be a voice which says it wants to end unemployment but really is out to create chaos for the Australian economy and the Australian people. 
I shall be quite happy to stand,  Mr Speaker.  I feel quite strong. This city has welcomed many distinguished and powerful men, but there is within its boundary tonight a man who is not only distinguished but who is also a spiritually powerful man and a man whose presence I think we should note. That man is Cardinal Mindszenty. He is a man who, through his courage, is notable throughout the world. Cardinal Mindszenty was imprisoned first by the collaborators of the Nazis because in Hungary, where he was the Bishop of Veszprem, he defended the Jews.  His  first imprisonment was therefore at the hands of the Nazis. When the communists overran Hungary in 1949 he was imprisoned by them because he stood up for the freedom of the church. He suffered torture and was imprisoned, as I have said.  His  cause was taken up in this House at that time by members on both sides. I have looked at Hansard. On 9 February 1949  Mr Harrison  asked the then Minister for External Affairs,  Dr Evatt,  a question about this matter in which  Dr Evatt  replied very favourably. On 1 March  Dr Page  asked the then Prime Minister,  Mr Chifley,  a similar question and  Mr Chifley  supported Cardinal Mindszenty. On 16 March the present member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  asked  Mr Chifley  a similar question. On 21 June the present Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  asked  Mr Chifley  a similar question and in each case generous support was forthcoming. May I quote what  Dr Evatt  as Minister for External Affairs said at that time. He said: 
Cardinal Mindszenty of the Roman Catholic Church and a Bishop of the Lutheran Church were imprisoned, and in Bulgaria,15 Protestant pastors were brought to trial. That matter was put on the agenda of the Assembly, not because those individual cases would normally be of international concern, but because it was felt strongly that, in the guise of administering criminal law, actually what was being attemped in those States was interference with fundamental freedoms- in this instance freedom of religious worship. 
I think I have demonstrated that the cause of Cardinal Mindszenty is one which would be supported, I would hope, by both sides of the House. Cardinal Mindszenty came to Canberra this afternoon. The honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock)  and I met him outside Canberra and we saw him to the Archbishop's house where he is staying. I understand that tomorrow evening he is to be entertained in this House. I say that this man is worthy of every kind of support because he withstood torture and imprisonment first by the Nazis- I am not certain of the date- and then by the communists in 1949. He was freed briefly in 1956 at the time of the Hungarian uprising. Then for 1 5 years he was held in confinement in his own city in a diplomatic post. 
This man has withstood a tremendous amount. He is 82 years of age now and understandably is somewhat frail, but he is still alert and still able to bring to us the message of resistance to communist oppression, whether it be on the religious or the secular side because that oppression is anti-religious as well as being a repression of all the things which we consider to be human freedoms. I think that we should mark the fact that the communists have endeavoured to subvert the churches within their own jurisdiction. The churches have manfully withstood them, but the communists have contrived to put up puppet priests and puppet bishops who have been the tools of communist policy. These must be rejected, but what I suggest to this House is that we should be taking more interest in these things, and we should inform ourselves of what is happening behind the Iron Curtain to those who profess religion of any kind, but particularly, of course, the Christian religion. 
Surely we do not need a Solzhenytsin to tell us what is happening. Surely we can see for ourselves, and we should require the communist powers to give us the same freedom to make inquiries within their borders as we accord to their agents to make inquiries within our borders. Surely if we are honest about this- I say this with some kind of reluctance because I would say it of the past Liberal Government as well of the present Labor Government- we will admit that we have not been sufficiently interested in this matter. We have not seen that the balance is held evenly and that we are entitled to the same access in Russia or any other communist country as we give to them in Australia. Why should we not be concerned with the persecution of religion, whether it be the Christian or the Jewish religion, or the Catholic or the Protestant religion. Why should we not be concerned with the persecution of religion inside the Communist border? Surely the Government should be able to bring friendly pressure on the Communist countries and say to them: 'Look, you are signatories to the declarations of the United Nations. Why are you violating your pledges?' Why do we in a cowardly way simply sit silent while these things are happening- and they are happening. There is incontrovertible evidence that inside these Communist countries religion is subject to the strongest and the most stringent persecution. There is evidence, and we should be following it up and seeing that the evidence is made available to the Australian people and the people of other countries in the free world so that they can assess for themselves the validity of Soviet protestations as to whether they are adhering to the treaties of the United Nations. Surely this is a very simple thing. Surely we should be taking some kind of initiative in this matter. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Will the Minister ascertain whether a plaque in honour of Confucius was removed from the United Nations Building in New York last September. 
If the plaque was removed, what are the full circumstances under which this occurred, and what pressure was brought upon the United Nations authorities to permit this somewhat unusual action. 
I move- 
-A moment ago I said that the honourable member for Bonython  (Mr Nicholls)  said in this House: 'You will pay for that'. I now inform you,  Sir, that  his exact words were: 'You will regret that'. I know that the meaning is the same but I do like to be accurate in all of these things. The words he used were: 'You will regret that'. I take his version. 

 Mr NIXON (Gippsland  )-Mr Deputy Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
-With the indulgence of the House, may I address a procedural question? I see on the 'Daily Program' that we were to have tariff proposals at approximately 4 p.m. from  Dr J.  F. Cairns, the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and 
Excise. I wonder when it is likely that those tariff proposals will be introduced? 
-This Bill is affecting - 
This is a most important measure. The honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  was quite right. 
Motion ( by  Mr Daly)  put: 
That the question be now put. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 

 -Mr Speaker - 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill- by leave- taken as a whole, and agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
-Thank you,  Mr Speaker- 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 

 - Mr Speaker, this morning we witnessed in this House something which I would have considered impossible. That was when a want of confidence motion which had been moved by the Opposition was gagged after only one supporter of the Government had spoken in the debate and the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  did not choose to come into this House to defend himself against an attack which was not in any way based upon events in this House but was based upon events in the country. The whole country is crying out against the Government and against the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister himself must take personal responsibility for some of the major factors of the current economic disaster. 

 -Mr Chairman - 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  proposed: 
That the question be now put. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Defence. Has his attention yet been directed to the decision by the British Labour Government to withdraw British forces from this hemisphere? Is he aware of the strength of isolationist sentiment in the United States, a sentiment, incidentally, to which the policy of his Government has contributed what it can? Has he yet had an opportunity to read the intelligence reports which warn of the possiblity of new initiatives on a world scale in 1975 and 1976 from Communist aggression? Does he know that the plans for the Australian defence forces made by his Government will permit only token resistance within that time if Australia should face a threat in isolation? Finally, will he employ this parliamentary recess to prepare a proper defence plan for Australia to give us protection over that short term so that when the House meets on 1 1 
February it can turn its attention to what should be the first concern of the Australian Parliament, that is, the security and continued existence of the Australian people? 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I am very much astonished that this motion has been brought on only at the last moment. It has been on the notice paper for a long time and I have spoken in regard to it for only 30 seconds, I think. It is one of a series of motions in regard to the improvement of our social services which I have brought forward and one which I would have thought that the Government, if it had any bona fides in its approach to the social service question, would have wanted to have debated. I have tried to bring this series of motions forward in a non-partisan way because I believe that most of them would incorporate policies which if they were understood by the Government would be approved by the Government. I want to look briefly at the notice paper and the motions which stand in my name because I believe that they do form a consistent policy. First, we have this motion today, on which I have spoken so far for I think 30 seconds. I think I should read out that motion. It is Order of the Day No. 1 and it states: 
That, in the opinion of this House, restrictions upon the granting of supplementary assistance to pensioners are too severe. 
The pensioners who get supplementary assistance are the poorest and most needy of all pensioners. One would have thought that the Government would have given some time for the proper moving of this motion. Another motion in my name appearing on the notice paper states: 
That, in the opinion of this House, finance should be made available to assist pensioners who own their own homes to meet rates and other necessary outgoings. 
These 2 motions should be read together because, whereas it is the most needy who need supplementary assistance- and they get it because they pay rent- something should also be done for pensioners who own their own homes and pay rates; not necessarily the same kind of thing should be done, but something should be done. For example, in the United Kingdom there are advances made for this purpose- not grants but advances- and in this respect perhaps we should take a leaf out of the United Kingdom 's book. Whether this be done or not, it is surely something which should be debated and it should be engaging the attention of this House. I have been Minister for Social Services and I know the gaps that still remain in our social services structure. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! It being 12.45 p.m., the time allowed for precedence to general business has expired. 
I am very sorry about that. 
It seems to me that this is a motion which the House should not carry. We have just heard from the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  a nauseating exposition of self praise without foundation, speaking of the frenzied activity of this Parliament but saying nothing of the havoc which that frenzied activity has caused outside to the people of Australia.  Sir, I  think it would be a disgrace if this man were allowed to incorporate in Hansard unheard the details of the quite unfounded torrent of self praise which he has emitted over us all today. 
Motion (by  Mr Daly  ) put: 
That the question be now put. 
I think that the Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Mr Enderby)  has pulled the rug out from under his own argument. If he really thinks that the - 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
I am not happy about the Bill as it stands at present. 
Motion ( by  Mr Daly)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
I wish to speak on a most important constitutional issue, namely, the filling of casual vacancies that have occurred in the Senate. We know that ever since the introduction of proportional representation the Senate has been fairly evenly divided. Indeed, I think since 1951 that condition has always obtained in the Senate. The filling of casual vacancies therefore becomes a matter of major importance. It is perhaps somewhat strange that the principles which should determine it have not been more discussed. One thing which stands out is that the Senate is, in a sense, the House of the States and the filling of casual vacancies lies therefore in the first place in the hands of State governments. We are speaking, I suppose, about the principles which might actuate State governments in making their decisions. But what are those principles? I think we are looking at this as a comparatively new thing because until the Senate was elected by proportional representation this matter was not of any great significance. 
There are 2 kinds of casual vacancies which occur in the Senate and on this principle they should be sharply differentiated. There is first the casual vacancy which occurs by reason of the death or illness of a senator and there is second the casual vacancy which occurs because a senator has resigned to take up some other appointment. These are quite different. In the first case, death or illness is something which occurs by some unforeseen chance. The second occurs by choice of the senator concerned. This is the vital difference between the 2 situations. If the vacancy occurs by death or illness it is only fair and reasonable that the place should be filled by a senator of the same Party. I think it would be reasonable to expect in that case that the State making the choice to fill the vacancy should scrupulously keep to the Party of the dead or sick senator. This is something which has not happened by his choice; it has happened by a chance, and as such it is only fair that a senator of the same Party should be appointed to fill the vacancy. 
But it is quite different when the vacancy occurs by the resignation of a senator who resigns from his own choice. In that case he has to take the responsibilities of the action and the consequences of the action which he himself has voluntarily provoked. In that case, if the Party from which the senator comes is in command of the government of the State from which he comes he can . quite reasonably expect that his successor will be of the same Party as himself. That goes, I think, without saying. It is quite competent for him, before he makes his resignation, to go to the Government of the State concerned and ask : 'If I resign will you put a member of my Party in my place?' If that State Government says yes, then it is an agreement which of course must be kept. If it says no, the senator has to make the decision as to whether he should resign, knowing that his place in the Senate will be filled by somebody of another Party. 
I think it is of absolutely vital constitutional importance to distinguish between the case where a vacancy in the Senate occurs through the voluntary action of a senator and the case where it occurs through illness or death. This is important because it gives some sanction in the hands of a State government against an improper appointment for the senator concerned, because the senator must now say: 'I am going to resign because I am going to be appointed to this or that post'. If the State government thinks this is an improper appointment it should say to that senator: 'You are of a different Party from us. If you take this course which we think improper, we will put a senator of another Party in your place '. If he has not taken the precaution of going to the State government before he resigns, the consequences are on this own head. 
This is of particular importance in regard to  Mr Murphy. Mr Murphy  has resigned from the Senate by his own choice and on his own initiative. It is up to the State to impose a sanction if it thinks that the pending appointment to the High 
Court of  Mr Murphy  is an improper appointment. I think there is good reason to think that it is an improper appointment, made of the wrong man and for the wrong motives. This is a matter which has both smaller consequences relating to the individual concerned,  Mr Murphy,  and larger consequences in relation to the High Court. Both of these matters are important. 1 do not think that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  would have offered this post to  Senator Murphy,  knowing that he had to resign from the Senate, unless he had expected great advantages politically from  Senator Murphy  on the High Court. I do not think he would have done this because whatever - 
I do not want to press this point, but I - 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  proposed: 
That the honourable member for Mackellar be not further heard. 
The noes have it. (The bells being rung) 
Question put: 
That the honourable member for Mackellar be not further heard. 
-I shall support the amendment because although there are many things in the Bill which, in my view, are good it is, again in my view, a most defective Bill which should not be passed in its present form. There will be many disagreements about it among us in this House, but surely on reflection there will be unanimous agreement on one point, narridy, that it was a very good thing that this Bill was not put through before Christmas without adequate consideration being given to it. That, I think, is now the unanimous view. I think that changes should be made to this Bill. Detailed changes will have to be made clause by clause. Whether it is by the Committee of the Whole or some select committee, because time may preclude the examination of the Bill clause by clause by the Committee of the Whole, that will have to be done. 
There are, in addition, matters of major importance which go to the structure of the Bill and the principles behind it. I wish to indicate 4 kinds of matters which seem to me to be objections to the Bill in its present form. I will give examples of them. The first is the matter of drafting. These may seem to be small things, they may seem to be niggling things, but they are important when we are dealing with a Bill of this kind which has such a major and permanent impact on the structure of society. For example, let us look at clause 121 of the Bill which says that in this proposed section 'judgment of the court' includes a report made to a court by an officer. The only trouble about it is that the words 'judgment of the court' do not occur in the clause. This is just bad drafting. There are numerous examples of this kind of thing in the Bill. I have given one example. The Bill has not been looked at with sufficient care because in quite numerous cases the drafting of the Bill is such that its meaning is not clear. Surely we would agree unanimously that whatever Bill we pass, whatever principles we endorse, at least the meaning of each clause should be clear and unambiguous. 
The second point which I think is wrong is that major matters have not been discussed in the Senate or indeed brought up in this House although they are major changes made by this Bill. I instance clause 51 of the Bill. This clause changes the nature of the prohibited degrees in marriage. The change may be good- I am told that it is made in conformity with the British practice- or it may be bad, but the important thing to remember is that we are making a major change here and none of us has really turned his mind to the implictions of what we are doing. I would not say at the present moment that I would be against a change in the present prohibited degrees which are set out in the Matrimonial Causes Act but I will say that I consider this to be a matter of major importance and I would not want a fundamental change to be made without some consideration of the principles involved. 
Again I emphasise that I am not coming down on one side or another on this question at this stage. All I am saying is that here is an absolutely major matter which goes to the whole root of the incest taboo, to the difference between consanguinity and affinity, something that goes back for thousands of years into human history and which has been quite fundamental, and we are lightheartedly making a change without thinking about it at all. I venture the thought that not one quarter of honourable members have even realised that we are making this major change and that it is incorporated in the Bill. I would like to hear considered argument from both sides on this question before I would countenance making a major change. 
The third kind of objection I have is that this Bill does things which are unrealised and its consequences have not been made clear. Let us take clause 83 of the Bill as an example. I am only giving examples because each one of these examples can be multiplied into many clauses. If we look at clause 83 we see in it an innocent subclause (7)- which says: 
For the purpose of this section, the court shall have regard to the provisions of sections 72, 75 and 76. 
It does not look much but what it means is that all the orders existing under the old Act can now be upset, even if they are years old, and the whole thing can be overturned. This may be a good thing but it has never been brought to the attention of the House. I would say that the House does not understand what it is doing in passing a clause like this and what really are the implications of that innocent-seeming little subclause. We have not talked about it. We do not realise what we are doing. In a major matter like this it is terribly important that we realise what we are doing. 
The fourth kind of objection I have to the Bill in its present form concerns matters of major principle. I believe that the Bill ignores the facts of human behaviour and is a kind of pseudoscientific nonsense. Any competent sociologist would recoil from it. Let me give an example of the kind of thing I have in mind in regard to these matters of major principle. I believe that the period of separation in order to establish the fact of irretrievable breakdown of marriage is too short. It is to my way of thinking- certainly where there is not mutual consent- unreasonably short. I would not like the 12 months, which is the period set down in the Bill, to be lengthened to 5 years as it is under our existing Matrimonial Causes Act. I believe that 2 years would be a reasonable and proper compromise. I certainly think that the 1 month set down as the period between the decree nisi and the decree absolute is far too short and I see no reason whatsoever why that period should not be lengthened to at least 3 months. After all, there can be regrets. We know of people who have re-married. We know that sometimes when people live apart even for two or three months they realise that they have made a mistake. I am not thinking of the period between the decree nisi and the decree absolute as being important to enable investigations to be made; that is a tiling of the past. But I do think that this lengthened period is desirable in order to give a chance for a final reconciliation. Very little harm would be done. 
The period is too short, and yet in a sense it is too long, because there is only one ground. The matrimonial offence, which is unhappily sometimes all too much a fact- adultery or some other matrimonial offence- is excluded. We have provided for only one ground. I do not say that we should get away from that ground, but there should also be another objective ground. I support this position absolutely. Unless this is provided the period will be too long for some purposes and too short for others. 
Yes. I say that the Bill is certainly too formal. I believe that the family courts, less formal perhaps than the present courts, are still too formal. I would like to see a family court whose decisions would not be without appeal against the respondent, a family court in which no lawyers appeared. I think that in the initial family court the appearance of a lawyer is itself an offence. I would like to see a family court where there was the maximum of informality and the maximum chance of reconciliation. But if you do that you must give the respondent the chance of an appeal to a court where there is greater formality because there is a chance of applying the principles of law for those who are unjustly treated. So I say that this Bill is at once too formal and too informal. The Bill has the principle of no fault in it, yet. it does have the principle of fault in it. Because maintenance and custody of children are involved the question of fault must be brought in. It is a pure sham to say that this Bill is fault-free when as a matter of fact it still embodies in the most contentious areas the concept of fault. 
I say that the Bill is unfair to women because it does, unfortunately, give to the man the power of casting off a woman. It is, unfortunately, physiologically irrefutable that a man's sexual life is longer than that of a woman. This is one of the things which is in human nature, and you cannot ignore it in the Bill. Yet, at the same time, it is unfair to men. If a woman commits adultery and becomes pregnant and the period of gestation is less than 12 months, the man has no redress and would have to adopt as his own and maintain as his own a child which he knows is not his own. So it is unfair to women and it is unfair to men. The Bill is ill-considered. 
These are questions of major principle which I think are inherently wrong in the Bill in the form in which it is before us. I would hope that as well as looking at the Bill clause by clause, the House would have some consideration of the major principles and the way in which the faults in the Bill could be remedied. I believe there is a constructive alternative. I believe that there should be an objective ground as well as 2 years separation. I believe that if we are going to have 2 years separation it should be real separation and not under the one roof. I believe that if there is no consent then the provisions of maintenance and child custody should be strengthened. I am not saying that we should be hard on those people who wish to get a divorce because of an irretrievable breakdown when it is acknowledged on both sides, but if there is no consent then I think we have to think better in relation to the maintenance and custody provisions. Where there is a contest between 2 parties there has to be protection in respect of property and child custody. Some principles contained in the present Actnot the present Act in its entirety- should be preserved. 
Finally, may I draw attention to a mistake which is being made by the proponents of this Bill. It is a logical mistake which goes right to the root of the whole matter and which was instanced in the speech of the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun),  which we heard a few moments ago. The honourable member for Kingston said that marriage is entirely a private matter between 2 people. If that is so, why do we want marriage laws at all? Why do we have a monogamous rather than a bigamous or a polygamous society? Instinctively when it comes to a point we do realise that marriage is not just a matter between 2 people. It is a matter which concerns the continuity and existence of the nation, and as such we have to try to reconcile the very real values of the human relationship with the very real necessities of preserving the continuity of our national life. 
We will bring this to what is known as the reductio ad absurdum if we take and accept the principle which the honourable member for Kingston put forward so eloquently and unequivocally and carry it to its conclusion. The conclusion is that we would need no marriage laws at all. That would be something which instinctively the good sense of this House would reject. Because we realise that we do have the necessity for some marriage laws, because we realise that this is an important Bill which is before us, because we believe that it is so much a question of conscience that we can override Party lines as we are now doing, we instinctively realise and accept the fundamental proposition that marriage, although it is a matter between 2 people, is not only a matter between 2 people but also is a matter which concerns the nation as a whole. 
I feel that the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Mr Crean)  has not quite got the facts straight. I think that if he will look at what was spent in my time as a Minister and compare it with what is being spent by the present Minister for Social Security he will find that nearly 10 times as much is being spent now. He will also find that the things that were put out in my time when they were paid for by the Department were factual and were needed because at that time we were expanding and improving social services very rapidly and the beneficiaries did need to know the changes we were making. I take the opportunity of just putting the record straight in that regard. 
I wanted to speak briefly tonight, if I might, about a matter which - 
I will be brief in my remarks to give the honourable member a chance to speak. You have followed,  Sir, the  normal practice of the House. What I am about to say may interest the honourable member because I want to refer to something which affects Hobart as well as my electorate and the electorate of the honourable member for Warringah  (Mr MacKellar),  namely, ferry services. The honourable member for Franklin will recall that recently there was a disaster at the Tasman Bridge. He will recall also that the traffic in Hobart has been very much dislocated as a result of that disaster and that some emergency ferries have been made available. To some extent this has been done at the cost of the Manly ferry service which affects the electorate of the honourable member for Warringah and, perhaps to a lesser extent, my electorate of Mackellar. I would not say we are very glad to, but we are certainly amenable in helping Hobart cope with the effects of the disaster. The people of my electorate have been disadvantaged by the transfer of a ferry to Hobart but we are primarily, of course, a Liberal electorate and therefore a generous one, and we see the need of the people in Hobart. 
I have asked the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  to look at the question of the rehabilitation of a ferry known as the 'South Steyne' so that it could be made available to the people of Hobart on a temporary basis while their emergency lasts, and subsequently could come back to Sydney and be used on the Manly run. The 'South Steyne ' is a fast ferry, it can carry about 1700 people and it has, I believe, a top speed of some 17 knots. This large fast ferry will require wharfage facilities. I have had a look at this aspect and I believe that the necessary wharfage faculties could be made available in the Hobart area if the ferry were provided. 
The 'South Steyne' was put in dock. While there she suffered from a fire. The cost of refurbishing her may be somewhat considerable because not only have the effects of the fire to be made good but also some of the plating in the hull will need to be replaced, particularly since this ferry crosses the Sydney Heads and sometimes has to meet heavy seas. The cost of refurbishing the vessel is right outside the funds available to the present State Government. However if the Federal Government provided the funds we would have a vessel available for the Hobart service within three or four months which could meet many- not all, of course- of the traffic troubles that at present exist in that city. Such an arrangement would release some of the smaller and inadequate ferries which could be used temporarily on the Manly run until the 'South Steyne' became available. 
The honourable member for Franklin might be interested in my proposal. He is to speak after me in this debate. I hope that he will take the opportunity of co-operating in this scheme and helping me to put representations to the Federal Minister for Transport. Funds which are perhaps out of the question for the Government of New South Wales are well within the ambit of the Federal Government in relation to its function of helping in respect of the consequences of a disaster. The Tasman Bridge accident was a disaster and it has put the citizens of Hobart to very considerable inconvenience. 
I would like to see a co-operative venture under which the 'South Steyne' could be refurbished in three or four months. The wharfage could be fixed at the same time. We would have a fast large ferry for the Hobart run while the emergency exists, and then the refurbished ferry could be returned to the normal Manly run to the great advantage of the people of the electorates of Mackellar and Warringah. I will conclude my remarks at this point because I believe the honourable member for Franklin wishes to speak. I hope that the honourable member will co-operate with me in making representations to the Minister for Transport to do something which is to the immediate advantage of Hobart, to the eventual advantage of my electorate and which will, I think, help him in his temporary difficulties. 
Many members of this House resent- if they do not resent it, I think they should- the attitude of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in this House at question time and at other times. He evades issues. He refuses to answer questions. He says things which are untrue and which I believe he knows are untrue when he says them. The Prime Minister's attitude is one which does concern this House. I think that we should look at it with rather more care than we would look at the attitude of another member. 
-Very good. I will not press that point. What I will say is this: The Prime Minister will not accept the word of another honourable member as to what he has said and prefers to rely, as he did this morning, on Press reports. This is in contrast with what happened in regard to the Prime Minister himself, as Hansard reveals. The Prime Minister in reply to a question which related to the 'nervous Nellies' said something which was untrue in regard to his own previous remarks. I was able to produce in this House and subsequently put on file in the Parliamentary Library an actual tape of what the Prime Minister had said. It showed that he had said what I claimed he said. But he did not have the grace to apologise for his untrue statement, perhaps a mistakenly untrue statement, which he had made in this House about bis own speech. He was convicted out of his own mouth. The tape was there. This is quite different from a newspaper report. A newspaper report can be untrue. The tape was not. 
That is not the only thing. I come now to what I regard as the main question of substance which has been spoken of by other honourable members today. The Prime Minister has stood in this House and said, in regard to the appointment of a senator to take the place of  Mr Murphy  in the Senate, that convention is being flouted. That is not true on the facts, because the fact is, and I have the papers in front of me, that since 1949, when proportional representation came in, there has been no test of what happens when there is a voluntary resignation. Let us examine the facts. In 1956  Mr Spicer  resigned from the Senate to become a judge. He was a Liberal. It was a nonLabor government which appointed his successor. In 1965  Sir William  Spooner resigned, as honourable members know, through ill-health. A non-Labor government appointed his successor. In 1968  Mr Gorton  resigned from the Senate to become Prime Minister. A non-Labor government appointed his successor. In 1971 Dame Annabelle Rankin resigned in order to become our High Commissioner in New Zealand and a non-Labor government appointed her successor.  Senator Gair  resigned and no successor was appointed. In every case the Government which has done the appointing has been of the same character or of the same complexion as the person who had resigned. There is no test. There is therefore no precedent either way on the record as to what should happen when a senator resigns voluntarily. 
This should be distinguished absolutely from the death of a senator or, I would think, even the resignation of a senator because of unexpected ill-health. An involuntary resignation is quite different. In the case of an involuntary resignation I think that the convention is firm. In the case of an involuntary resignation a replacement should come from the same party. But when there is a voluntary resignation there is no precedent established, and the principle does not hold good because the person who resigned voluntarily must know the consequences of his action when he makes that resignation. It is open to him before he resigns, if the States from which he comes is controlled by a political party other than his own, to make arrangements and to get an undertaking that he will be replaced by someone of his own party. If his resignation is for a proper purpose- to take up an appointment for which he is fitted- I think that undertaking would be given in advance. That is the proper way to go about it. It is not by chance, I think, that in all previous voluntary resignations with the one exception of  Senator Gair's  resignationI do not think supporters of the Government would want to go into that one too muchthe resigning senator came from a State which was controlled by a party of the same colour politically as his own. 
I wonder why in this case the resignation of  Mr Murphy  was so hurried. Why was it done in this particular way without any consultation? There must have been some very good reason for that resignation being conducted in that hurried way. Perhaps it was because it was felt that  Mr 
Murphy would not have been acceptable as a High Court justice. That may be; I do not know. But I think that the reason why this was done in a hole-in-the-corner manner without  Mr Murphy  going to the Government of New South Wales and saying: 'If I resign will you appoint a Labor successor?' was for a different reason altogether. I think that  Mr Murphy  resigned in order to beat the rap. I believe that he resigned because he hopes to have in the High Court a refuge from investigation into his prior misdeeds. 
-There is some evidence in my possession - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! On the point of order, whilst technically the Honourable Lionel Murphy is not yet a High Court justice, I think the proprieties which are normally observed in this House should be followed in this case. 
-The proprieties that are observed in this House are that misdoings in a public place and in a public office should be exposed. Those are the proprieties observed in this House. I have evidence in my possession- it is not conclusive evidence but it is evidence which requires further investigation- that there has been grave misdoing in the use of Commonwealth officers or the misuse of Commonwealth officers in the concealment of files which exist in the Post Office, in Qantas and in the Department of Overseas Trade. I believe that  Mr Murphy  would be very reluctant to have some of those files exposed. I believe that the abruptness of his departure to the High Court is, as I have said, party in order to beat the rap. He is going to the High Court very quickly- surreptitiously almost- - because he does not want certain things to be exposed and brought to the light of day. I move, as an amendment, that the following words be added to the motion that grievances be noted:  and in particular the House notes with distaste the evasive and contemptuous attitude of the Prime Minister within it and his custom of making deliberately misleading statements with the objective of deceiving both it and the electorate.' 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. The honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  a few moments ago made some allegations regarding inquiry agents and me, and those allegations were utterly and completely without foundation and untrue. But I do not accuse the honourable member of lying because I know that this sort of thing has been spread by members of the Cabinet and by the propaganda machine which  Mr Murphy  controlled.  Senator James  McClelland spoke to a friend of mine on this matter and tried to peddle the same lie. 
I can understand this but I wish to speak in view of the gravity of what the honourable member has said. I do not accuse him of lying because I think he is just repeating Cabinet propaganda which has been falsely put about for a malicious purpose and I instance that  Senator James  McClelland, the new Minister, used this to a friend of mine in King's Hall and the Press men from  Mr Murphy's  office have been saying the same kind of thing - 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Corbett)  adjourned. 
I had not intended to speak in the adjournment debate tonight but something that occurred in the House impelled me to do so. When I was making a rebuttal of certain remarks made by the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman) Mr Speaker,  who was then in the chair, felt that the Standing Orders did not allow me to make clear the full facts of the case. I now take this opportunity of so doing. The honourable member for Prospect accused me of having employed an inquiry agent in relation to a court case which was shortly pending. That accusation was completely and utterly without foundation. There is no truth in the matter whatsoever. I do not believe that the honourable member for Prospect, who said something which was untrue, did know that what he was saying was untrue. I do not accuse him of lying. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! I do not want to restrict what the honourable member is saying, but I would suggest that he should not refer to a debate that has taken place during this day. I think that he can set out the facts without referring to the debate. 

 -Yes, Sir. I make it clear that no honourable member in this House is accused by me of having said something which he knew to be untrue. But I think that certain honourable members may have been a mouthpiece for people in the Ministry in this regard. I have some evidence of that. Let me cite three or four pieces of evidence. In the first place, there was, as is well known, a break-in at the house of Miss Morosi. This occurred and it was reported in the Press. When this break-in occurred suggestions were made that  Senator Greenwood  and I were in some way concerned with the matter. As far as I am concerned-  Senator Greenwood  has spoken for himself in the same manner- this suggestion is utterly and completely false. 
It was suggested, among other people, by the Minister for Manufacturing Industry,  Senator James  McClelland, who spoke to a friend of mine in this regard. It was suggested tonight in the House by the honourable member for Prospect. I must not make too much reference to that. But the suggestion was made. The honourable member for Prospect made the same allegation by way of interjection in the House yesterday. So it is going on. 
Two things are notable. The first concerns the Morosi affair. Naturally I have made some inquiries into this subsequently by reason of the fact that my name was falsely linked with it. I have made some inquiries and I have come to the extraordinary conclusion that the Commonwealth Police and not the State Police were involved. I have formed the quite inevitable conclusion that this was done corruptly by  Mr Murphy  in order to cover up evidence that would have been to the detriment of himself or his friends and that the thing was a political frame-up from the beginning. I do not know the details of how this was done, but I have heard from pressmen that the story that I was involved was put out from  Mr Murphy's  office. This is the kind of thing that one has to contend with. There is not the slightest doubt in my mind that  Mr Murphy  knows a great deal more about the background of the Morosi affair than is currently believed. 

 Mr WENTWORTH A name has been mentionedthat of John Singleton. I do not know that he has anything to do with the Morosi affair. But the honourable member may have the advantage of me in that regard. If he has the advantage perhaps he will let the House know. But it is on the record that  Mr Murphy  corruptly used his position as Minister to use the Commonwealth Police in order to prevent the obtaining of evidence in regard to a friend. This is not something for which I need any evidence. The evidence is here and completely open. It is on the record. Why were not the State police brought into this? It is a State offence. Why was it kept from the State police? Perhaps  Mr Murphy  may be able to enlighten us on these matters. 
I have evidence of a long association of  Mr Murphy  with this group of people. It is quite conclusive evidence and it goes back for some years. 
There has been a cover-up by the Government of quite monumental dimensions. The Government is using all of its propaganda facilities to denigrate those people who are making an attempt to find out what has really happened. It is using innocent members in this House as a mouthpiece for what it is doing and innocent members- I regard the honourable member for Prospect as an innocent and deluded mouthpiece- do not perhaps realise what they are being used for and what is really going on. I have named certain files which I have every reason to believe are in existence. I know that those files have things in them which  Mr Murphy  would not Uke to have revealed either regarding his friends or perhaps his attempts to cover up for his friends. I do not think I need take the matter any further. 
-My question is addressed to the Treasurer in his capacity as  Deputy  Prime Minister and Acting Prime Minister. I refer to the open aggression which has for some time been conducted by North Vietnamese forces and agents against Cambodia. I ask: When he was Acting Prime Minister what statements did he make or what other action did he take in relation to the North Vietnamese aggression against Cambodia? Does he still follow the line of assisting to maintain the fiction that 
North Vietnam is not involved in this aggression? In other words, is he still following his customary practice of covering up for his communist friends? 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. In the 'Sun Herald' of last Sunday the following short paragraph appeared: 
The Federal Government's Family Law Bill looks like taking some time to get through Parliament. Liberal backbencher,  Mr Bill  Wentworth, is planning to move 45 amendments to delay its progress. 
This is a complete misrepresentation. The amendments that I will move are not in any way meant to delay the progress of the Bill but to improve it. There are some things in this Bill which would commend themselves to me but there are so many drafting amendments necessary in the text that has come down to us that amendments have to be moved in this House. Particularly may I draw attention to the fact that some of my amendments are directed to reducing the intervention of lawyers into the family courts to be set up under the Bill. 
-I wish to make a personal explanation,  Mr Speaker. 

 -Yes, Mr Speaker. I refer to something which occurred during question time. Almost by way of a point of order may I point out to you,  Sir, that  a misrepresentation occurring during question time is re-broadcast later in the day but the personal explanation refuting it is not re-broadcast. May I ask you,  Sir, as  the  Speaker  to ascertain whether a refutation should be included in the re-broadcasting time. I think that this is very important. It is only a matter of fairness to those who are maligned or misrepresented by Ministers during question time. I ask you,  Sir, as  a matter of fairness to ensure that the same re-broadcasting facilities are provided to those who have to answer these misrepresentations as are provided to those who make them. I think that, as a matter of general fairness, that would commend itself to you and should commend itself to the House. I know that there may be technical difficulties in this regard. The matter may have to be referred to the Joint Committee on the Broadcasting of Parliamentary Proceedings. I ask you to consider this matter very seriously. 
In regard to what occurred during question time today, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  was kind enough to intimate that I should be grateful for being able to get a means test free pension under the beneficent arrangement made by his Government. 
-As long as the matter is excised. 
-Yes, quite. But I was not referring to that; I was referring to what the Prime Minister said. 
I would be grateful if that is the case. 
-Let me finish. The Prime Minister was good enough to indicate that I should feel some gratitude to him for having the right to draw a means test free pension. May I say that if the previous - 
-Yes, it has to do with my age,  Sir, and  that is of some personal interest to myself, even if not to you. I was about to say that if the previous Liberal-Country Party Government had remained in power, and I was the relevant Minister at the time it was removed from office, by this time all persons over 65 years of age would have been drawing a means test free pension in accordance with its promise and the policy which it put forward. The Government has already partly welshed on its proposal and I believe that it is proposing to welsh further. 
A point of order,  Mr Speaker;  the Minister for Services and Property is abusing his privileges as Leader of the House. He is a disgrace. 
-In the few brief moments that remain to me I want to bring to the attention of the House a most serious contempt that has been committed against it. As the House is aware, we have before us a Bill entitled the Family Law BUI. That Bill, as honourable members very well know, leaves a great number of things open to regulation and it is not specific on many points. The implementation of the provisions of that BUI would depend very largely upon - 
-Thank you,  Mr Speaker.  The serious contempt to which I refer is that draft regulations under the Family Law BUI have been circulated to people other than members of this House. They have been discussed by outside bodies. They have been made available to outside bodies under confidential seal. It is a most appalling contempt of this House. The Minister or whoever circulated the draft regulationsit may not have been a Minister- has been very guilty of contempt of this House. It is particularly heinous, if I may say so, because the Family Law BUI, in the terms in which it has been drafted, leaves so many things open. The impact of the BUI Will depend very largely upon the way in which the courts, acting under rules and regulations, interpret the very wide and nebulous provisions which in point of fact are in many parts of the BUI. That being so, it is very serious indeed that anybody should circulate to people other than members of this House, for their approval or their comments, draft regulations and rules which were not circulated to members of this House. The Family Law BUI is currently under consideration by this House. I think I have made my point. 
It will be seen that the terms of this matter of public importance are not primarily directed to Miss Morosi; they are primarily directed to Ministers. The matter is therefore a matter of public importance and concern. The involvement of Miss Morosi in the matter is quite secondary, but it has to be stated because it is on this that the responsibility of Ministers depends. Some time agoshortly before the House rose for the Christmas recess- things were ventilated in the Press regarding the appointment of Miss Morosi, and the accountant for one of her firms came to see me and made a lot of allegations, which he subsequently incorporated in a statutory declaration which I have in front of me. That was followedabout a week before Christmas, I think- by a signed statement that came into my hands. I now read the statement: 
We the undersigned who are ex-employees and company officers and business associates of Miss Junie Morosi and  Mr David  Ditchburn and their companies make the following statement in the public interest: 
Miss Morosi and  Mr Ditchburn  fraudulently misappropriated the public's money, paid to them for transmission to overseas hotels as pre-paid accommodation charges. The companies involved were Trans- portation Consultants International (Aust) Pry Ltd, O ffline, Hotel Express, TCI, George R. Smith and TCI Travel Holdings Pty Ltd. 
This occurred from July 1971 to December 1973. 
During the same period there were numerous valueless cheques passed by Morosi and Ditchburn for payment of rent, wages, purchases of - 
Br Klugman- No, I will not do that. My point of order is that I understand that the subject of the charges being made by the honourable member for Mackellar was referred to the New South Wales Corporate Affairs Commission and there was a statement from, I think, the then Premier of New South Wales,  Sir Robert  Askin, that he had received advice from the New South Wales Corporate Affairs Commission that there was no substance to those charges. Is it fair, then, to raise these charges in this House and to make it possible for - 
No. 

 - Mr Speaker, I move the motion standing in my name. It reads: 
That a committee be set up to inquire into and report upon allegations that some Members of this House are under obligation to give their votes in this House at the direction of an outside body or bodies. 
-One of the things that should be fixed up is the supplementary assistance provided to pensioners and the means test in regard to it. Perhaps the House will allow me to say something about the history of this matter. The supplementary assistance or rent allowance is given to pensioners who pay rent. It is given to age pensioners and widowed pensioners. It is not given to recipients of unemployment benefit. This was an addition to the pension which was introduced by the Liberal-Country Party in 1958. Prior to that time there was no supplementary assistance provided. This is one of the very many improvements in the field of social services which the Liberal-Country Party Governments introduced. It was introduced, as I have said in 1958 at the rate of $1 a week. In 1965 it was raised to $2 a week. In 1972 the Liberal-Country Party Government- I was the responsible Minister at the time- raised it to $4 a week. In 1974- just recently- this Government raised it to $5 a week and introduced certain limiting conditions. I think honourable members will note that the real value of supplementary assistance in terms of purchasing power is now much less than it was when we went out of office, and this is one of the ways on which pensioners have been short-changed by the present Government. But at this moment I am not trying to concentrate on the supplementary assistance level, although I point out in passing that I hope it will be raised; I think it should be raised. I think that the inadequate way in which the present Government has behaved in this matter is something that requires correction. 
The means test is imposed on, I would say, the unhappy recipients of supplementary assistance, and it is in point of fact most inequitable and unfair. The means test is fixed at $1 a week, and anything above that is directly deducted from the supplementary assistance. I think this is completely inequitable. I agree that this position existed under the previous Government, but I remind the House that it was the previous Government that first introduced supplementary assistance. Although I, as the Minister, was hoping to have been able to relax the present means test I was not able to do so. It is a fierce means test because it is a 100 per cent means test. If it was a tapered means test it would not be so bad, but it is not a tapered means test; it is a 100 per cent means test. It has become much fiercer with the rise in prices. The sum of $1 in 1958 would have brought twice as much as $1 does today. There was a slow drift upwards .in prices during the time of the Liberal-Country Party Government, but in the reign of this unhappy Government there has not been just a drift upwards; there has been a surge upwards, and the limit of the free area of $1 a week, inadequate as I believe it was under our Government, has become much less adequate, even more onerous, under the present Government and the economic chaos which this Government has caused through inflation. 
I ask the Government to relax this means test, and I do so knowing that in one area there has been some kind of relaxation. That one area is in regard to sheltered workshops. I am glad that the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  has done this. It is something which I think he picked up from my old files when he took over the former Department of Social Services. Do not let us argue about that. It was something good that was done, and I am glad that the Minister has done it. But it is not enough. The present means test is oppressive first on sheltered workshops. In spite of the relaxation it is still oppressive, and it is particularly bad for some handicapped people, particularly mentally handicapped people who do not always understand why they are being penalised. It is hard on aged persons who could hope to improve their position by working. I think particularly of the beehive industry in Sydney which Alderman Joan Pilone instituted. The operation, to some extent, was invalidated by the imposition of this means test. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
1 ) With reference to the lands at Glebe recently acquired by the Australian Government from church authorities, has his attention been drawn to the serious allegations current in regard to the letting policy pursued by bis Department. 
Has his attention been drawn to the Glebe newspaper which alleges that local residents are objecting on the grounds that, while they have to pay $30 per week for their homes, his Department is letting homes to persons from outside the area at $7 per week. 
What letting arrangements have been made to persons other than existing tenants since the Government assumed control of this property. 
-Last Tuesday - 
-I will not detain the Committee for any length of time. However, there is just one matter about which I am worried in regard to the Committee debate that has gone on so far, that is, that the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  does not seem really to be in command of the Bill or to understand it fully. My evidence is based on 2 things. Firstly, the honourable member for 
Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  asked the Minister certain specific questions and so far the Minister has found himself unable to reply to those questions. They seem to me to be very pertinent questions and ones which the Minister in charge of the Bill, if he understood it, should be able to answer off the cuff. But we have not yet had an answer. Perhaps the Minister will confute me in a few moments by answering the questions which the honourable member for Lilley addressed to him specifically earlier in this Committee debate. 
The second thing, of course, which worries me is that the Government has brought in this large packet of amendments which obviously indicates that its first approach to this matter was ill considered. This is, I am afraid, typical ofthe way in which the Government treats legislation. It is, of course, fortunate that we have "a Senate which will be able to review these things. The first ill considered proposals of the Government which already the Senate has had to amend and which I think would require further amendment will not go through the whole of the Parliament without consideration in another place. This is one of the occasions on which I think we should really be thankful for the existence of the Senate and its power to review hasty, ill considered and ill digested legislation which this Government puts before us from time to time and which it endeavours to railroad through the House. That is all I have to say at the present time. 
Is not the Minister going to give us an answer to the specific questions? 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 4 and 5- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 6. 
1 ) The principal function ofthe Corporation is, subject to and in accordance with this Act, to lend money for the building  or  purchase of dwellings and the purchase of land to be used for dwellings. 
The Corporation also has, subject to and in accordance with this Act, the following functions: 
to grant money for the building of dwellings, the purchase of dwellings and the purchase of land to be used for dwellings; 
to build dwellings or take part in, or be associated with, the building of dwellings; 
to sell and lease dwellings built, purchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation; 
to provide, or ensure the provision of, facilities and services for persons in dwellings with which the Corporation is concerned; and 
such functions as are conferred on the Corporation by any Act. 
The Corporation may perform its functions to the extent only that they relate to matters with respect to which the Parliament has power to make laws and, in particular, may perform its functions- 
in a Territory; 
for the purpose of the provision of housing for members and former members of the Defence Force and for other persons who have participated in the defence of Australia; 
by way of, or as incidental to, the provision of family allowances; 
for the purpose of the provision of housing for the aboriginal people of Australia, immigrants to Australia, persons employed in or by Departments or authorities of Australia and persons engaged in work for Australia or an authority of Australia; or 
for any purpose of Australia or an authority of Australia. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to refer to something that occurred in this House during my absence on Tuesday last. It is recorded at pages 633 and 634 of Hansard. A question had been asked of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the Prime Minister in answering it made an entirely irrelevant and personal attack upon me. It was a deliberate and wanton attack. It was not caused by the question. It was brought in. This was done in my absence. The honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  intervened and said: 
The Prime Minister is taking this opportunity in the honourable member's absence to say things in relation to him that are thoroughly unparliamentary. 
He asked  Mr Speaker  Cope: 
Could I suggest .... there is a duty upon you, from the Chair, to protect him using your rights and prerogatives. 

 Mr Speaker Cope replied: 
If the honourable member for Mackellar thinks he has been insulted I will give him the usual opportunity to speak when he returns tomorrow. The Prime Minister may continue to answer the question. 
This is what occurred at that time. When I returned I saw Hansard and got in touch with you,  Mr Speaker,  last week. I said that I was intending to use the privilege which  Mr Speaker  Cope had suggested I might use and you thought that perhaps it would be inappropriate to do so last Friday because it was a special day and that it would be done today. I was expecting that I would have a fairly full right of reply in the circumstances. When the Prime Minister today reiterated the somewhat unparliamentary expressions he had been using you did not pull him up as you were entitled to do under standing order 77. Under standing order 77 it was your duty to pull him up. I told you, coming to the Chair, that I had not pulled the Prime Minister up because I was intending to make a full reply when you gave me a chance to do so. I rose afterwards to take the opportunity of making a reply to which I thought I was entitled. I found myself very circumscribed and am proposing now just to make one or two remarks in relation to the matter. I reiterate that the precedent seems to have been established by the instance I have outlined to the House that  Mr Speaker  does not intervene on behalf of honourable members who are absent. 
I am not reflecting on the Chair to the slightest extent. All I am doing is saying what  Mr Speaker  Cope has done and  Mr Speaker  Cope has established the precedent that when a member is absent- I am not reflecting, I am just saying what has been done- standing order 77 will not be invoked in his protection. This stands on the record in Hansard. I am not suggesting that it is right or wrong; I am not reflecting on the Chair. I am simply saying what is in Hansard, as I am entitled to do, and the words I have quoted from Hansard are completely explicit because when the honourable member for Wannon said that the  Speaker  should protect an absent member from unparliamentary remarks  Mr Speaker  Cope said that he would not do so but would accord an opportunity to the absent member to speak when he returned to the House. I do not reflect on the 
Chair; I simply say that this is the precedent which has been established and which is recorded in Hansard. I would expect that the precedent established by  Mr Speaker  Cope would be followed by you in this regard, and that is not a reflection on the Chair. 
Let me come to what the Prime Minister had to say. First, he said with some pleasure that he thought this to be my last term in Parliament. This is not up to him to assume. The question of whether I nominate for Liberal preselection is a matter for me and I will not he influenced by what he says. Whether or not I am preselected by the Liberal Party is not for him to say. I think it is entirely improbable that he would ever be a member of the Liberal Party preselection committee and I do not think it likely that a Liberal Party preselection committee will select its candidate in accordance with the wishes of the present Prime Minister. The question of whether, having been pre-selected, if that should occur, I shall be elected by the electors of Mackellar is again not for the Prime Minister to determine. In point of fact, I should say that by his conduct he makes it extremely unlikely that a Labor member would ever be elected for the seat of Mackellar, and I do not think that he has any say in that regard. So he was saying something which was quite unjustified. 
He then went on to make remarks which were not only unjustified but entirely and completely unparliamentary and disgraceful. He remarked that I had dishonoured my name in Parliament by my consistent vilification for a quarter of a century'. In that he was referring, I am certain, to the fact that in this House I have exposed, and shall continue to expose, the communist associations of people in the Labor Party. This is something which has offended members of the Labor Party and the Prime Minister continually over a quarter of a century. I make no apology for what I have done because what I have done has been entirely borne out by the event. What was a matter of shame for the Labor Party earlier on is now almost its boast. It is not ashamed of its associations with the Communist Party.  Sir, I  think that I have said enough about the activities of the sly and slimy Prime Minister. 
This is not in accordance with established precedent but if you require me to do so, of course I must. You are new in the chair - 
-I have done so. 
-! have done so. 
-I have withdrawn it. I do withdraw it. 
Thank you. I second the motion. 
Question (by  Mr Daly)  put: 
That the honourable member for Mackellar be not further heard. 
I think that this is one of the most disgraceful - 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. The Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  referred to me as having interrupted Private Members Day to move a private member's motion. This is the height of absurdity. It shows the lengths to which the Leader of the House is prepared to go in vilifying me. 
I am glad to support the proposal. At least it is a repentance on the part of the Government, and repentance from a sinner is always a matter for rejoicing. This situation was caused basically by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitiam)  because he has endorsed the proposal- I refer to what is known as the Rattigan theory- that we should get rid of what he calls 'inefficient manufacturers'. The more than 100 000 people in manufacturing industry who are now unemployed must blame the Prime Minister personally for the misjudgment which has caused this situation. There is not the slightest doubt that when he derided the 'nervous Nellies', as he called them, the 'Nellies ' had every reason to be nervous. The 100 000 and more people who are now unemployed - 
-I would Uke to make a few remarks on this Bill. I naturally join other members who have congratulated the Commonwealth Railways on what it has done and wish it well. The TransContinental has been a success both from a freight and passenger point of view. I believe that in view of the loadings we should be trying to bund up the Indian Pacific service from its present frequency of I think, 3 times a week, which will shortly be 4 times a week, to six or seven days a week. I think this would be a payable proposition. Because of the nature of the track I hope that we will rethink the question of speeds over the line both for passenger and freight trains. With the long straights, the low speeds which we achieve are quite deplorable One hopes that in future there will be some rethinking along these lines. I believe in the future of the railways. I believe that with the introduction of proper techniques the rail system should carry a great deal more of both passenger and freight traffic in Australia than it carries at present. 
I am glad that at last we are seeing the completion of the standard gauge into Adelaide. It has been too long delayed. I say that in regard not only to the present Government but also to its predecessors. I know that some difficulties arose because of the behaviour of the South Australian Government. But even allowing for that the extension of the standard gauge into Adelaide has been unduly delayed. The proposal to take the line from Tarcoola northwards to Alice Springs along the high ground is good. I am not certain that it is of as high priority as some other rail proposals in the States. I hope that proposals in the States which are of higher priority might be pushed forward even if it means some delay of the Tarcoola-Alice Springs standard gauge une. It is all very well to see this on a map but when one looks at the amount of freight to be carried on this line and at its prospect it does not seem to be of the high priority which might be accorded to some of the important main interstate and arterial railways lines in Australia. 
Of course what has happened in the railway scene is part of what has happened in the overall financial scene. The Commonwealth Government has acquired so much of the revenue and so much of the loan funds that the States have been starved. This is so in the matter of railways as in the matter of everything else. I hope that more money might be made available for the expansion and improvement of State railways systems. I do not believe it is the proper function of the Commonwealth Government to interfere in matters of detail. Rather I think it should confine itself to matters of principle, leaving the details to be worked out by the States. This is particularly true in the present situation because of heavy unemployment and the need to find works of value which can be done quickly, thus absorbing the unemployed. It is much better that these works on railway lines, for example, which are of high productivity should take precedence of some of the ephemeral schemes such as the National Employment and Training Scheme, the Regional Employment Development scheme and things like that. 
I am not saying that one should not give work to the unemployed. What I am saying is that the work should be of high priority. It is no good saying that we are looking for labour and not for materials. The provision of materials, if they come from Australian sources, also provides Australians with employment. One of the ways to stimulate industry and to get it on its feet again is to find works which can be done quickly in the context of value. Among those works would be railway schemes. Again I say that I believe that the possibilities of railways are far from exhausted. It would be very much worth while to improve their running capacity and to try to help them to cut costs. The cutting of costs is vital. I shall mention some things of general principle which occur to me. 
First the main trunk railway lines should be greatly improved. Let me instance the line between Sydney and Melbourne, the most important railway link in Australia. Considering the traffic which it carries that line is a disgrace. The alignments, the curvatures and the grades are not up to standard at all. I think that especially in view of the oil situation which has arisen we should be considering the improvement and electrification of a few of our mam lines. In New South Wales I think of the lines from Sydney to Albury, from Sydney to Brisbane, from Sydney to Parkes and from Sydney to Wollongong. I could possibly add the one from Maitland to Werris Creek. Those would be the only lines I would consider. 
The honourable member for Hunter did not follow me. The section from Gosford to Newcastle is included in the line northwards to Brisbane. I agree, of course, with the honourable member for Hunter that that is one of the lines that should be studied. I speak of New South Wales because I know the New South Wales system fairly intimately. I have no doubt that some honourable members from Victoria, Queensland or Western Australia could give the same kind of account of what should be done in their States. 
I believe now that the improvement and electrification of those few main lines that I have mentioned would be an economic proposition. Particularly we should start work on the line from Sydney to Albury and do something about some of the terrible curves and grades which occur in it. For example, everybody knows the troubles which occur around Bundanoon. We should think especially of the first new duplication from Junee south to Kapooka. This is top priority because that small link, only a few miles in length as it happens, is bottlenecking the whole movement of trains on that system. From Kapooka southwards to Albury we could perhaps get away with a centralised traffic control, or CTC, for the moment and be able to operate satisfactorily on a single line. Having regard to the grades and curves between Junee and Kapooka, the duplication of that line so that there would always be a good grade in either direction is one of the main things to be done. 
It strikes me as extraordinary that this has not been put forward as one of the works to be done now to help the unemployment position. Instead of frittering away our resources on NEAT and RED schemes we might be thinking of some of these main lines and particularly pf the provision of better rolling stock. Freight terminals leave a tremendous lot to be desired and- I stress thisarrangements for the transport of livestock are absolutely unsatisfactory. Some kind of rethinking in this respect is required. I do not think that the Federal Government should interfere in detail but in general principle this kind of thing should be done. 
Finally let me say this as I believe it to be important in the present context of inflation: One of the things we should be doing here and now is to give to the States a subvention for their railways which would allow them to reduce their freights to marginal running costs. If this were done it would be one of the ways in which we could really strike at the cost structure. I shall not take up the time of the House. I think my views have been made known about the necessity for efficiency through the cutting out of feather bedding, unused facilities and things of that character. I would not have time to go into those matters now. I think there is no need for me to do so. If we could have some kind of subvention to the States from the overflowing Commonwealth resources, whether they be resources of revenue or resources for the capacity to borrow, to allow the States to reduce their rail freights to cover only marginal running costs, I think we would be doing something which would be to the economic advantage of all Australia. 
-The House will recall that on 20 February last I proposed for discussion a certain matter regarding the staff of the Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns).  I brought forward certain information in regard to the matter. Unhappily, the discussion was cut short and the intended following speakers were unable to put their point of view. However, I did say that I was prepared to have incorporated in Hansard certain statutory declarations. The Government indicated to me that it would not permit that to be done. 
The matter is now  of less consequence  because the makers of these statutory declarations have forwarded them to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  for action. We will see, between now and the time when the House reassembles, whether the Prime Minister is willing to take any action on these statutory declarations, whether it be by having a public inquiry or by taking action in some other perhaps more positive way. If he does, that will perhaps satisfy part of the disquiet in regard to the position. If he does not, then the House will have to deal with the matter further when it reassembles. I have seen these statutory declarations. They are of such a character that they require some kind of inquiry or positive action. 
One declaration which has been forwarded to the Prime Minister is from a man by the name of J. J. Gonzales. I will not read it. He imputs something quite definite and quite improper, if not criminal, in regard to this matter. Let me say in passing that the standard of conduct which is required from a person occupying the most sensitive financial desk in Australia is perhaps a little higher than keeping out of gaol. It is not quite conclusive to say that no prosecution has yet been launched. This affidavit, although sworn in the Philippines, is sworn by a person who says that if necessary he will come to Australia and make good in Australia what he has said in the form of a statutory declaration overseas. The allegations that it makes are not nebulous; they are quite definite. That is the first thing I want to say. It is no longer necessary for me to table these because the makers of them have put them into the hands of the Prime Minister and we will now see what the Prime Minister does in regard to them, whether it be the holding of a public inquiry or the taking of some more positive action. 
But there is a much more serious side to this which has now arisen and I want the House to realise how serious this is. In the course of my remarks on 20 February I indicated that there was evidence of financial impropriety, and nothing else. I did not go into anything beyond that. Immediately afterwards the Treasurer replied to me and I want to quote the exact words he used. As recorded at page 538 of Hansard, he said: 
I know Miss Morosi and her character. I certify to this House that she is a person of integrity, honour and competence. She is a person who has obtained the highest security clearance that it is possible for anyone to obtain. She has been cleared by security to perform the kind of task to which I have appointed her. 
In view of what I have said, this means that her financial propriety has been cleared by security. I take it that what the Deputy Prime Minister, the Treasurer, said was true and unless it is proved to the contrary I believe that the House must accept his word as true: 
She is a person who has obtained the highest security clearance that it is possible for anyone to obtain. She has been cleared by security to perform the kind of task to which I have appointed her. 
I find that security did not contact her critics. In other words, security did not do in this matter the kind of things which security normally does. If she obtained that kind of clearance it could only have been obtained through the manipulation of security. This is a most serious matter. This is far more serious than any allegation that a confidence trickster is on the staff of the Treasurer. This is far more serious than that. Here we have a position where in view of what was on Government files, in view of what had been done in the past and was known in the past, nevertheless a security clearance on the highest level was given, to use the Treasurer's words, 'to perform the kind of task to which I have appointed her', namely, a sensitive financial task. It is utterly impossible that security, if it had not been manipulated and if it had carried out its normal routine checks for this kind of thing, could have given that kind of clearance. For the present we must say that it did give that kind of clearance because the Treasurer, the Deputy Prime Minister, has told us that it has and it would be quite wrong, without evidence, to question his word in that regard. Honourable members' words in this House are not questioned on matters of fact of this character. So let us assume that this clearance was given to her. How do we account for this? It is obvious, as I have said, that if the normal checks had been made, if security had done the normal thing and if security had even looked at Government files it would have found that there was evidence- not perhaps of criminal activities, although I do not say yes or no to that- of things which would have prevented security giving a security clearance on the highest level for this kind of financial task which she was to perform for the Treasurer. What are we to say? How do we account for this really remarkable fact? Surely it must be a fact because the Deputy Prime Minister has told us so. He has put it into Hansard. I heard him, and I think the House heard him say this. 
Who manipulated security? This is a question which might have the heaviest of implications. Apart from what the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  may or may not do in this matter, the time has now come for security- this reported security- to be called into question. Today in another place  Senator Greenwood  brought evidence of the manipulation of security by this Government for quite improper purposes. He was speaking of the manipulation of security in the communist interest. This is another link in the chain. It is an appalling thing if we have a government one of whose Ministers is capable of manipulating security and preventing a proper report being put forward. 

 -Mr Speaker, this is one of the most important motions- 
Motion ( by  Mr Daly)  proposed: 
That the question be now put. 
I think that it is important for the Committee to realise that all these clauses of the Bill have to be read with reference to clause 18, which contains the interpretation provision. Perhaps I can be permitted to ask the Committee to look at clause 18 because it controls the interpretation of these clauses. Clause 1 8 reads: 
A reference in this Part to the doing of an act by reason of the race, colour or national or ethnic origin of a person includes a reference to the doing of an act for two or more reasons that include the first mentioned reason, whether or not that reason is the dominant reason for the doing of the act. 
I simply say that because that clause of interpretation has been included there is going to be a great deal of trouble in regard to this clause and the other clauses which have been passed. I really think that this is going to do more harm than good. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 12. 
1 ) It is unlawful for a person, whether as a principal or agent- 
to refuse or fail to dispose of any estate or interest in land, or any residential or business accommodation, to a second person; 
b) to dispose of such an estate or interest or such accommodation to a second person on less favourable terms and conditions than those which are or would otherwise be offered; 
to treat a second person who is seeking to acquire or has acquired such an estate or interest or such accommodation less favourably than other persons in the same circumstances; 
d ) to refuse a second person the right to occupy any land or any residential or business accommodation; or 
to terminate any estate or interest in land of a second person or the right of a second person .to occupy any land or any residential or business accommodation, by reason of the race, colour or national or ethnic origin of that second person or of any relative or associate of that second person. 
There is a great deal of substance in what the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  has just said. Today a lunch which was hosted by the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross)-  so apparently this is not a party matter at all- was attended by Aborigines from Oenpelli. They complained with great justice about what had been going on at the border store just outside the reserve at Oenpelli. It is utterly scandalous that at that place there has been a grog shop for some years which is in the process of destroying the Oenpelli community. The representatives of the Oenpelli community have come down to Canberra to say this and to ask us to do something about it. 
What can we do under this kind of provision in the legislation? We know that shortly a mining venture will be established in the area. We know that pressure will be brought to bear to have alcohol provided for people who work in the mining venture. We are going to sit by and see the Aboriginal community at Oenpelli destroyed. I make no apology for using those words. They are the sentiments of the Oenpelli Aboriginals themselves whose representatives have come here to ask us to take some action against what is being done to them. Nor is this the only example. 
A similar grog shop has been set up at Roper Bar just outside the Roper River reserve by, I believe- I am not certain of this- the same group of people who operate at Oenpelli. I believe the same thing is happening just outside the Daly River reserve. A move is being made which will result in the destruction of a large part of the Aboriginal communities of the Northern Territory. 
This kind of provision in the legislation, well meaning though it is- all of us support the objectives behind this legislation- will make it more difficult for us or for any parliament to give adequate protection to the Aboriginal people against the destruction which they themselves see and which they themselves have asked us to do.something to abate. I repeat: Good intentions are not enough, and there are good intentions behind this legislation. The objectives of this legislation are admirable, but I just worry about the practical consequences. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Clause 15 (Employment). 
-As a matter of clarification, I wish to direct attention to paragraph 4 of Article 1 of the Schedule. This is an important paragraph because it is referred to in clause 8 of the Bill. Clause 8 itself refers to clause 10. The Bill is drawn in a very peculiar way, if I may say so. Obviously the intention behind this is to cure a possible defect which might arise from the operation of clause 10. As clause 10 stands at the moment, it would be impossible to pass a law or maintain a law which gave special privileges to our Aboriginal people or Torres Strait Islanders. I do not think that is the intention of the Government. I think that the Government means to maintain the special discrimination in favour of our Aboriginal people which is contained in some of the legislation, some of which I introduced into the House, and some of which subsequently has been introduced. I am wondering whether the drawing of the Bill actually achieves the purpose. Clause 8 of the Bill states: 
This Part does not apply to, or in relation to the application of, special measures to which paragraph 4 of Article 1 of the Convention applies . . . 
That is the paragraph in the Schedule to which I have referred. That is drawn in a rather peculiar way. I am by no means certain that it would cover all the things that I believe the Government means to cover and that certainly should be covered. This is purely a question of drafting. I am not trying to change the intention in any way. It is perhaps a little late in the debate to be bringing up a matter of technical drafting of this character, but I am suggesting that the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Enderby)  might care to look at this matter and make certain that the drafting carries out the intention that I believe he intends to be carried out. I am not going to go into the matter in detail, but I am a little worried by the proviso at the end of paragraph 4, which reads: 
. provided, however, that such measures do not, as a consequence, lead to the maintenance of separate rights for different racial groups and that they shall not be continued after the objectives for which they were taken have been achieved. 
Here again there would be no difference between the Government and, I think, the Oppositioncertainly myself- in relation to the intention, but I am worried as to the interpretation that might be placed on this proviso in a court of law if it had to take it into account in relation to an appeal under clause 10 of the Bill by a person of a non-Aboriginal race who was claiming the special rights that are given to the people of the Aboriginal race under legislation. It is purely a question of drafting, but the Government might like to have another look at it. 
I will be very brief in my remarks. I would like to define my attitude to this Bill at this stage since I did not get an opportunity, owing to the application of the gag, to speak to the motion for the second reading of the Bill. I think that everybody on both sides of the House approves of the objectives of this BUI- I certainly approve of themwhich are not to maintain a stance of racial superiority. But I will say that I deplore the nature of this Bill. I believe that the Bill as a whole will do more harm than good and that it will be counterproductive to what it intends to achieve. That has happened with similar legislation introduced in, for example, Great Britain and the United States of America- legislation which was brought in with the very best of motives. I am not trying in any way, to impugn the motives behind the introduction of this legislation. I am simply saying that I believe that, by trying to pretend that certain things do not exist and by trying to pretend that the community is different from what it is the Government will cause more tension than it will alleviate. I believe that in that sense- I want to be quite precise in this respectthe Bill will be counter-productive. I believe that this Bill, unhappily, will cause more racial tension than it will alleviate and that it will add to the very problems that it is meant to solve. In saying that I do not in any way differ with the motives behind it or the objectives that it sets out to achieve. 
-I shall be very brief. I support the BUI as it has come down from the Senate. This action is something which, as I think the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross)  said a moment ago, was started under another government. I think that the Queensland Government has been slow to respond, but on the other hand it is only fair to say that it has made some response. I would have hoped that what has been done would have been done earlier. I know that our Aboriginal community is not necessarily helped by going too fast, but neither is it helped by going too slowly, and in this case I believe that the moves by the Queensland Government, although in the right direction, have been too slow and that this BUI is a good and necessary BUI. I therefore support it in the form in which it has come down from the Senate. 
I would not be able to support the amendment which the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant)  is proposing to move and which he has circulated because I believe that his amendment is not in accordance with the wishes of Queensland Aboriginals. I know that we are capable here of making laws for everybody in 
Australia, but when we make laws for Aborignals the first persons who should be consulted are the Aboriginals themselves. In a matter like this, I believe that the proper law would be one which commends itself to the bulk of the Aboriginal community which would be affected by it. I know that there has been no formal counting of heads in this matter, but I do have some experience and I am fairly clear in my mind that the amendment which the Minister proposes to move would not be in accordance with the wishes of the Aboriginal community in Queensland which would be affected by it. In other words, although I support the Bill in the form in which it has come down from the Senate, I do not find myself able to support the amendment to that Bill which the Minister has circulated. My reason for that is the very simple one that in these matters one must try not to be too paternalistic; one must try to consider the real wishes of those Aboriginal people who are affected by the provisions of the BUI. I have visited a number of the Queensland reserves and I have talked to a large number of the Queensland Aboriginals. In my view- I admit that I have not made a formal count- the overwhelming number of the Aboriginals who would be affected by this BUI would be opposed to the proposals which the minister is bringing forward in the nature of amendments. On the other hand, I believe that most Queensland Aboriginals who would be affected would be in favour of the BUI as it has come down from the Senate. I have very much pleasure in supporting it in those terms. 
I ask the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant)  what he is going to do about what I thought was the very important point raised by the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross).  He raised a question about the definition of 'Islander', and he reminded us that in the Torres Strait islands there are a number of people who are not of the Aboriginal race and not of the Torres Strait Islanders race but people who had come from other Pacific islands ethnically quite different. The definition of 'Islander' states: 'Islander' means a person who is a member of the race to which Torres Strait Islanders belong; 
It seems to me that this definition would automatically exclude from the operation of the Bill people who are living, and who perhaps for some generations have been living, on Torres Strait islands but who are not of the Torres Strait Islanders race. I think it is merely a matter of drafting. I have no doubt that the Minister has some kind of amendment in mind to cure the position which the honourable member for Brisbane brought up. Only 1000 people may be concerned, but the definition should not be let go as it is. Perhaps the Minister has an amendment, or would like me to try to draw one? 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Luchetti)  -If the honourable member has not moved an amendment it is not before the Committee. 
If the Minister is not going to suggest an amendment perhaps I had better suggest one. I suggest that 'Islander' means a person who is a member of the race to which Torres Strait Islanders belong or is a Pacific Islander settled for at least one generation in the Torres Strait islands. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! It is necessary for the honourable member to put that in written form. 
-The Minister may have something better. I thought the Minister was going to move an amendment. I will consult with him and we can come back to this matter at the end of the Bill. 
I simply say that I support the view put forward by the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  on this matter. Surely we are trying to do what the Aborigines concerned want, and there is very little doubt as to what these Aborigines who will be affected by this legislation want. However, there is one other point that I would make. The Aborigines who want this legislation have a real reason for wanting it. I have been to nearly every one of these reserves and I know the kind of thing that happens there. I know what happens on other Aboriginal reserves. The Aboriginal people who are living there decently and quietly fear very much the incursion of rowdyism and drunkenness from other Aborigines. It is no use our trying to gloss over this fact. That is what they say themselves and what they themselves want. There are 2 points: Firstly, there is no doubt that this is what they want; and secondly, there is no doubt that they have a real and a good reason for wanting it. 
I ask whether the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant)  is willing, under the provisions of standing order 236, to have the Bill recommitted. I do not want to press it, but I should like the Bill recommitted to cure the small defect in clause 3 in relation to the definition of 'Islander'. I am not going to press it. Does he not think it would be reasonable to recommit the Bill? 

 -Mr Speaker, I intended to raise the same point as the Minister for Tourism and Recreation raised. I do not think there is any reason for me to take up the time of the House further. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker- 

Motion (by Mr Nicholls) agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill 
I would like to direct my remarks to clause 4 of the Bill in particular. I think honourable members on both sides of the chamber support this Bill. I am a little disappointed in the emphasis of the debate. Clause 4 sets out the functions of the authority. Paragraph (e) of sub-clause 4(2) reads: 
formulating standards for highways and other roads and proposals in relation to traffic management, traffic laws, road signs and other matters and things relating to road safety; 
It appears to me that this is by far the most important part of the Bill and that the weight of the debate has been directed wrongfully, because what is really in question if we want to improve road safety is mainly what is in the court of governments rather than what is in the court of vehicle manufacturers. I refer particularly to the uniformity of traffic laws throughout Australia. 
Many accidents occur because such things as giving way on the right are different in different parts of Australia. We know that confusion arises in Canberra from interstate motorists who come to Canberra and find a different code of highway laws in operation here. If we really want to reduce accidents the first thing to do is for the Government to hold a conference with the States so that we can have uniformity of traffic laws. I am not speaking about things like parking regulations but about uniformity of traffic laws throughout Australia because I believe that this is one of the things which would do most not just to reduce accidents but also to reduce those accidents which are serious or fatal. Those are the accidents which tend to occur at high speeds because of the conflicting traffic laws and practices in the various States. 
The other point I would like to make, which again is in the government's court, relates to the provision of freeways. We should be spending more of our effort on producing really first-class roads for those arteries where major traffic volumes are carried. We are still dissipating too much of our available resources in trying to improve too many roads to an unsatisfactory standard. It would be better and more conducive to road safety and to the reduction of accidents if in place of this we were to spend more upon producing freeways, which are relatively accidentfree roads- no road is completely accident free but freeways are relatively accident free- for those locations where there is a high volume of traffic. This is particularly true in the cities and in the outlets to the cities. These are the roads in Australia which carry the highest volume of traffic. 
I speak of New South Wales. I am encouraged to see that the Government of New South Wales is putting more and more money into freeways of high quality. One instances, for example, the Hume Highway from Liverpool Crossroads into Campbelltown which is now being extended to Bargo. One thinks of the freeway to the north of Sydney from the Hawkesbury River Bridge. This is the kind of thing that should be encouraged. But at the same time one has to realise that the Federal Government seems set - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  It being 10.30 p.m., in accordance with the order of the House of 1.1 July 1974 I shall report progress. 
Progress reported. 
I will not detain the Committee for more than another minute or so. It does not seem to me that the Federal Government is wrong in its repugnance to all freeways which lead towards the centre of a city. I know that we should be putting more reliance on public transport. I am well aware of the arguments about the undesirable concentration of vehicles in a city. But if we are talking in terms of road safety we should get rid of the present attitude of the Federal Government, which seems to be against some of the most vital freeways which would be real accident producers. 
I support the Tasman Bridge Restoration Bill for 2 reasons. I support it, firstly, because it is a Bill which seeks to meet a disaster, and it is the proper function, I think, of the Commonwealth Government when a sudden disaster occurs to use the resources of Australia to help the victims of that disaster, whether it be in Hobart, in Darwin or anywhere else. Because this Bill relates to a disaster it is proper that the Commonwealth should be involved. I support the Bill, secondly, because, although I think that the Federal Government is bungling and bureaucratic and that this is not the best way in which to meet the situation, it should in an emergency such as this be given the power to do what it as the government thinks fit to meet that emergency. It should not be given an alibi so that it can try to blame other people for the failure of its plans and the failure of its administration. That is very evident here. 
Remarks were made earlier about the unfortunate design of the bridge. Of course, it is easy to be wise after the event, although in this case some people who were wise before it knew that the bridge had been built wrongly, as the event has proved. The things that were feared have come to pass. A mistake was made in the design and the bridge was built for elegance rather than for utility. It may be, as the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Coates)  was saying a few moments ago, that people will be frightened to cross even the repaired bridge. I am afraid that the repaired bridge will not be much safer than its predecessor because it is the whole design which is amenable to this fault, this possibility of disaster. One hopes that it will never recur. To give a guarantee that it will never recur with this design of bridge may be asking too much. 
I say very clearly that the criticisms in regard to the Federal Government's revealed incompetence in this matter have been too lenient. I am glad to see the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  sitting at the table because he is the man who bears the burden of the guilt. It is his guilt. I want to distinguish between the emergency operations which needed to be undertaken and the permanent repair of the bridge because there is a distinction to be made. This disaster occurred on 5 January. If we had had a competent Army an emergency crossing would have been open within a few weeks. The fact that it was not open within a few weeks measures the incompetence of the Minister and is a good reason why he should be called upon to resign. The Army is here for the defence of Australia. 
-Rommel would have got over. Any army which in its own territory cannot erect an emergency bridge in a matter of weeks is an incompetent army. Let us realise what this means in respect of" the defence of Australia. 
-I hope that in what I say I shall be numbered among the friends of statisticians because perhaps I, of all the people in this House, am the greatest user of statistics. I think I was responsible, when I was a member of the Library Committee, for setting up the library statistical service which was the nucleus of the library research service. Although I am going to say some things which may be a little critical, I hope my remarks will be taken in the context that I rate myself, and I hope I will be rated, among the friends of statisticians. One sees this Bill as a Bill to extend the range of statistics. I think that one of the things that needs to be done, which apparently is not yet envisaged, is to make statistics more relevant and less historical. 
At the present moment, because statistics are published in a complete form, very often they are not published until it is too late and they are no longer relevant. This has been particularly so in regard to financial statistics. With both the past Government and the present Government, one of the great troubles about financial policy has been that the Treasury has tended to act on statistics which are months old instead of statistics which were current and, by reason of that, has mistimed. I speak of the past Government as well as the present Government, although the sins of past governments were very small in comparison with the sins of the present Government in this regard. There has been a tendency to mistime economic initiatives so that the waves of unemployment, for example, became greater than was contemplated, or indeed greater than was necessary in order to cut back an inflationary situation. 
This kind of thing is inherent in the present form of statistics and it can be cured very easily by the use of appropriate sampling devices and the use of appropriate indicators. Let me cite an example from current times. The Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  has made an immense mess of his portfolio because he has relied on past building approvals. He has quoted them in this House. However, all that he had to do- it is a very simple thing- was to make inquiries as to the number of bricks leaving the brickyards of Australia each week. This figure could easily be found out, and it would give him an immediate clue as to variations in building activity. If he had only had the elementary common sense to do this we would not have had the immense mess and the unemployment in the building industry that we have today. He has worked on historical statistics rather than on current statistics. 
I would urge that in any reorganisation of the Bureau we look for sampling and current statistics rather than historical statistics, and also that we look for a special study of indicators which would show the amount of activity from day to day. I mention another kind of indicator that is available to us. If one looks at the number of vehicles crossing the Sydney Harbour Bridge and paying the toll each day, one knows a great deal about the retail activity of the city. If the figures of the day to day variations, over a period are taken out- they are available- and are compared with the figures for a similar period in previous years, there is an up-to-date indication of what is happening instead of having to rely upon history. 
Having said that, let me say that I am not altogether happy about the immense increase in the activities of the Bureau because I believe that some of them are unnecessary, otiose and perhaps even harmful. I suppose that in a way every public service has its Parkinson and Parkinson's law operates in the Commonwealth as well as in the United Kingdom. It operates in every department of every government. Perhaps a socialist Government as Australia has now is more amenable to the operation of Parkinson's law than are other governments. I think that is so. Parkinson's law, of course, is that work expands in proportion to the resources available to perform it. I think this is to some extent illustrated by what happens in the Bureau of Statistics. It is said- it has been said in this debate; it is a general feeling outside the House, I have heard it spoken of by statisticians who are naturally in favour of their own profession and by other people who sometimes should know betterthat the compilation and publication of all information is good. 
I would like to emphasise a sense of proportion in this matter. The compilation of some kinds of information and the publication of some kinds of information is good, but this cannot be applied unreservedly. Not all information should be compiled and not all compiled information should be made public. It is true that the Statistician acts under some code of privacy, and I know that the officers of the Statistician are very careful to preserve the features of that code. However, that is not quite the kind of thing that I have in mind as will, I hope, become apparent from my later remarks. 
There are 2 troubles about the infinite collection of information. The first is the invasion of privacy. This is quite a considerable thing. People have a very natural and proper reluctance to the public exhibition of their private affairs. This was bad enough in the past, but the possibilities of abuse have now multiplied enormously with the advent of the computer. The computer is mechanical big brother. The computer makes it possible for an ill intentioned person to retrieve private information and to abuse privacy. I am afraid that whatever precautions may be taken in the Bureau of Statistics as to the kind of information that is to be fed into the computerand I am familiar with the precautions that are taken as to the kind of information that is fed into the computer- there still remains the possibility of abuse. I would say that with a socialist government like the present Government in office there is a probability of abuse, because there is no doubt whatsoever as to the way in which the Government's fingers itch to get on to the private life of every Australian citizen. So this question of privacy is one thing that has to be kept in mind when one considers the infinite expansion of statistics. 
There is an even more important question, although it is not such an obvious one, and that is the extent to which the publication of statistics may lead to a feed-back effect and actually aggravate any economic ills. This is an effect which I think is one of the main dangers inherent in our present economic structure. The publication of information that shares are going to go up or shares are going to come down or that interest rates are going to rise or money is going to be tight or loose aggravates the process which it describes. This feed-back effect is one of the major factors which make difficult the economic control of our present civilisation. It is because of this feed-back effect that many of our ills of unemployment and inflation occur. Nothing adds to inflation more than talking about it and predicting it, because if you predict inflation then your dreams or your nightmares tend to come true. The self-fulfilling prophecy is the bugbear of our economic order, and therefore the feedback effect of the inordinate collection of statistics is one of the great things that we have to avoid. 
I know the House will forgive me if I mention some scriptural warrant for what I am saying. I think everybody in the House will be familiar with the 24th chapter of the Second Book of Samuel, which records how David conducted a census and incurred Divine displeasure for having done so. I will not quote at length but I quote this passage: 
And David 's heart smote him after that he had numbered the people. And David said unto the Lord, I have sinned greatly in that I have done: 
The vengeance that fell on him and on the people is set out in that chapter. It used to be quoted in the British Parliament as the apotheosis of biblical obscurantism. In point of fact the Bible in this matter, as in so many other matters, contains a fundamental truth. The feed-back effect- the self-consciousness which is the terrible solvent of society- is something which we are warned against. If we look around us we can see the necessity for such a warning. When we look at inflation, at the tides of hot money and at the way in which the gallup poll will affect the result of an election, the publication of collected information, even when the information is true and correct, tends to affect the process which it describes. 
It could affect it either way, but it tends always to exaggerate the effect of a movement which is described. I say to the House that it is naive to say that the collection and publication of every kind of statistic are desirable. From the economic and social points of view many of them are positively harmful. Unfortunately this is an economic truth which has to be considered and put in due proportion. I am not trying to say that we should collect no statistics. I am saying that we should be selective in the statistics that we collect and in the statistics that we publish. 
Having said that, let me turn to the proposed census which is going to be conducted, I think, in June 1976. Statutory rule No. 28 was tabled in the House, I think, on 4 March last. We should have a careful look at the questions which are going to be asked in this census. They are to some extent an invasion of privacy. We are going to be asked for new information. Everybody has to say whether his dwelling is part of a nonresidential building. He has to state the source of his mortgages and the monthly repayments he makes. He has to nil this information in on the census forms. Other information required is the source of the water supply, the place of residence one year ago in addition to the place of residence 5 years ago, whether the person has been away on a holiday for one week or more in the last year, the languages he uses, the range of his weekly or annual income, the effect of any physical handicap, the age at which he left school, the means by which his child is regularly minded during the day, whether he is a member of any retirement or benefits scheme or the recipient of any social welfare benefits, whether he is covered by a life insurance policy, whether he is licensed to drive a motor vehicle or motor cycle, and the method of travel to work. These are new questions. Some of them, particularly those relating to income and mortgages are ones which people will not want to answer. 
Let me remind the House that however careful the Bureau of Statistics is, it will be employing tens of thousands of temporary collectors on census day. These collectors will mainly come from the neighbourhood in which they live, as is natural, and they will see the forms. You cannot tell me that among these tens of thousands of collectors there will not be some who will be looking at the forms and saying: 'Oh, look at  Mr Smith's  income. I thought he was making $7,000 a year, and he is making $10,000 a year, the dirty dog. What is  Mrs Smith  doing? I did not know that they had a mortgage on their house. They always said it was free of mortgage. I find now that they have a mortgage and the repayments are $78 a month'. The answers to all these questions will be available to the tens of thousands of temporary employees who will be collecting and seeing the forms of their neighbours. I think that this is utterly wrong and that the census should not be like that at all. I believe that many Australians would resent having their privacy thus interfered with and their affairs made public. Unfortunately their affairs will be made public to the eyes of some of their neighbours. There is still time to do something about this matter. I believe that we have until 20 May to disallow these regulations in the House. I hope that the House will have the good sense to examine them in some detail between now and 20 May, and decide whether some of these questions might well be omitted from the census form. 
I come back to where I started. I hope I will be recognised as a friend of proper statistics as I am that. I am a user of statistics to a very great degree. I have done a great deal, I hope, to make statistics available in a better form to members of this House. But there is a difference between use and abuse. I think that there is some latitude for abuse in the proposals which are contained in Statutory Rules No. 28 at present on the table of the House and capable of being disallowed until 20 May next. I hope that the House takes a very careful and considered look at this and does what it should to preserve the privacy of individual Australians. 
-I have undertaken to conclude my remarks within 5 minutes. I shall do just that. I shall make a couple of points. Firstly, this is a National Gallery. I hope it will maintain its character as preeminently an Australian gallery. I do not mean that it should not have works from overseas. In terms of world art I do not think it will ever be a great collection but it can be the best collection in the world of Australian art. I hope that that will be achieved. Secondly, I hope that co-ordinately with this Gallery we will press on with an Australian museum in Canberra- the Australian museum presently is in Sydney- and that in that museum we will have what is pre-eminently Australian and is of world importance, namely, the gallery of southern man with Aboriginal relics civilisation and artifacts. Co-ordinated with that, I hope we have artifacts from other parts of the southern hemisphere so that the display can be seen in perspective. 
It is time now to press on with this and other public buildings. The building industry is in a state of depression and is likely to remain so for some time. The building of the Gallery will be an appropriate alleviation. It will be appropriate that we should use this construction as a means of tapering off the unemployment which will otherwise occur in the building industry, particularly in regard to large buildings. I know that public buildings such as hospitals and schools will and should take up the major part of this slack, but as far as the industry as a whole is concerned, there will still be need for employment. This is an opportunity for us in the next decade to undertake in Canberra works of monumental significance of which the Gallery is one. I hope that the Canberra museum with its gallery of southern man will be the other. 
-In the very few moments that are available to me I want to move a most important motion which I hope will commend itself to both sides of the House. I move: 
That, in the opinion of this House, finance should be made available to assist pensioners who own their own homes to meet rates and other necessary outgoings. 
There are some people who are ill advised enough to disparage what they call the Australian dream- home ownership. Indeed, there are some people who, for political reasons, desire to prevent and limit home ownership. We all remember a remark that was made in this House when Labor was the government a long time ago and somebody from the Liberal side said something in favour of extending home ownership. A Labor Minister- he is now dead- got up and in this House he said: 'We are not in favour of creating little capitalists'. 
It is in Hansard and it is what he said. Although the Australian Labor Party pretends to be in favour of home ownership the left wing of the Labor Party wants to prevent home ownership because it believes that the ownership of a home is something which stops a person being radical and revolutionary. One of the ways in which the Communist Party has exercised its influence inside the Labor Party is to commit it- 'commit' is the wrong word because they are openly in favour of home ownership- by underground, underhand methods to do things to limit the ability of Australians to own their own homes. I refer to the pensioner who has his own home. He saved during his lifetime to realise his part of what is the Australian dream, and he is ready to retire. By an industrious life he has perhaps made economies. He has saved enough to pay for his own home, and he is sitting saying to himself: 'Now I have no mortgage. I have my home. My pension will come in and I will be comfortable'. That was all right until he received his rates bill and his water rates bill. I know that with the inflation that has occurred these bills have become exorbitant. By the way in which the Federal Government has allocated revenues into its own hands, local government finds it hard to carry on. 
In some States- I think particularly of my own State of New South Wales which, happily, is under the command of a Liberal State Governmentby reason of what the governments have done pensioners are relieved of part of their rates. This is a very commendable thing, but this very commendable initiative is not uniform throughout Australia and in many ways it is capricious because its application, even in New South Wales, depends not wholly but in part upon the attitude that local governments take in regard to the extension of this particular concession. I do not think that this is good enough. I do not think that the burden should be placed on local government which is already hard enough pressed by the way in which this Government as gone on in regard to revenue. 
The Federal Government has made it impossible for local government to proceed effectively without Federal handouts and it now makes a great fellow of itself by giving handouts to cure the conditions which it has created. We cannot expect local government to be bearing too much of this burden. This is a situation which can be met and which has been met in other countries. For example, one thinks of what is done in Great Britain with regard to the deferment of rates. This is the kind of constructive proposal I would put forward, which in the long run is not costly but which requires liquidity arrangements in order for it to be carried out. 
I am indebted to my honourable friend for asking why it was not done 20 years ago. It was one of the things on our program which was to be done, and we did a great deal. Certainly if the Minister will do me the honour of looking up the matter - 
I want to make two very brief points in regard to clause 4, which deals with 2 matters. 
Motion ( by  Mr Nicholls)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Clause agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill- by leave- taken as a whole, and agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
There are 2 matters I think I should raise on the third reading. 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
I have no doubt that the honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry)  believes what, he has said and has spoken sincerely, but nevertheless T chink his views are ill-conceived and in a s .ise dangerous to Australia. He said that we hav; been defeated in Vietnam. So we have. But when "t u are defeated the most dangerous thing  yen  .n do is to run away. Whether we like itot, ve cannot run away from the consequence.; c that defeat. It is better for us to face up to  M?m  now. The honourable member said that wc r v lived ourselves in Vietnam for our own sel *-h interests. It is not a crime for an Australian  &gt;: eminent to think selfishly of the interests of Au   i   alia. 
Although we have been defeat  -:o  or our side has been defeated in Vietnam, it r...y be that the intervention has been to the ;d vantage of Australia and perhaps only to the advantage of Australia. Let me put something to the honourable member and let him think about it very carefully. At the time of that intervention Indonesia, the country which is to our north, was trembling between the communist and the anticommunist causes. The anti-communist cause is now firmly established in Indonesia. I venture to think that if there had been no intervention in Vietnam the opposite would have been the case and Australia would be now confronting not far across the water- indeed insofar as New Guinea is concerned a country almost with a contiguous land border- a communist threat from a country of 150 million people. This is something which is of vital interest to the security of Australia 
Is the honourable member for Fraser now to say that the Australian Government is acting unwisely when it looks at the security of the Australian people? Let him draw from the present defeat at least this lesson: We have to look to Australia's defences now in a new light. We have to be more self-reliant. Unless we can do this the very survival of the Australian people is at risk. He likes to talk in scornful tones of the possibilities of communists from the north coming down to Australia. It would be foolish to use such scornful tones because the thrust is there. The things that we said might happen are happening. The communist threat is now very much nearer to us than it was. When he watches on television what has been happening on the streets of Saigon or some other town in South Vietnam he might think perhaps that those scenes could be enacted in Pitt Street or Collins Street, or in the main street of any of the Australian capitals. 
Britain is no longer in the position to intervene with conventional forces to defend the security of Australia. Even if she had the will she no longer has the power. The United States of America still has the power, but what about the voices that are being raised from the Government encouraging isolationism in the United States? That is what honourable members opposite are doing. The propositions that are corning from the Government are treason to Australian because they are inciting our American friends to abandon us if we face the kind of situation which Vietnam has faced and against which we have no protection in our own power of defence at the moment. Our defence forces are a joke- a very bad joke, a joke which none of us likes to contemplate. There is virtually no power in them now. What are we to say of a government which incites the Americans to retreat into isolationism and withdraw the shield? What are we to think of a government which denigrates past policy which, whatever else it may have done, has at least ensured that for the present Indonesia is anti-communist and not pro-communist. If the present Government had had its way in the past, I feel certain that we would now have a communist Indonesia on our borders. That creates speculation which it is very uncomfortable to contemplate. 
The present Government has a long history of betraying Australia to the communists. I remember very clearly when it was considered in this House to be a matter of grave offence to say to any member of the Australian Labor Party that he was an ally of the communists. I have been removed from this chamber because I refused to withdraw the statement that there was communist infiltration into the Labor Party. I do not believe that Government supporters would consider this offensive now, because it stands complete and proved that there is communist infiltration into the Labor Party and it is shown by the Labor Party's policy. Without telling the electorate it has taken us into the communist orbit. 
If the Government has its way we are going to find ourselves victims of the communists because we have failed to stand up to them and have alienated the only people who could protect us from them. I believe that whatever be the responsibilities of an Australian Government, its first responsibility is the security of the Australian people. This Government has been betrayed that security by permitting the defence forces to be eroded and by the insults it has given to our allies 6n the very point of intervention to protect an innocent country from communist aggression because it was communist aggression. Civil war, call it what you like, but there was an established country of South Vietnam and there was communist aggression against it. Members of the Government, led by the present  Deputy  Prime Minister and Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  sponsored the he that there was no communist aggression. The Government sponsored the lie and persuaded the Australian people that the North Vietnamese were the victims, not the aggressors. Now the opposite has been dreadfully proved. It has been proved that the North Vietnamese are the aggressors- the successful aggressors, yes; we have been defeated. It was they who put the troops into South Vietnam when there were no troops in North Vietnam from the South. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Berinson)Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
Yes indeed, sir. The  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  in the course of his remarks did not confine himself to what had been said previously in the debate, but made remarks in regard to all members of the Opposition. I point out to him that as a member of the Opposition I did go to the length of going before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to support indexation but only subject to certain conditions. This debate is really about the Government's failure to make indexation work. 
I should very much like to support this amendment - 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Amendment negatived. 
There are just one or two short points I would make. I support wholeheartedly the amendment which is to be moved by the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  to which the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  has just referred. I have had little to complain about in this matter because I have had from the parliamentary draftsmen from time to time a very great measure of help and cooperation. I realise that his time is precious and that the demands upon him sometimes have been quite excessive in relation to the sources of value. I remember, from the time we were in government, that there have been bottlenecks in this House because Bills were not ready. The preparation of a Bill, which may have to go through the scrutiny of the Government, the Cabinet and the Parties, is a somewhat lengthy matter sometimes and the process should not be impeded by lack of drafting skills or we might almost call them legislative skills. 
If I may say so, I think that the Government has not done badly in regard to this. The Government probably has improved the position. It is not good enough but it has been improved and perhaps we on this side of the House should not take too much pride in our own performance in this particular matter when we were in Government. I support quite wholeheartedly the amendment which has been moved. I hope it will commend itself to the House. I believe it should commend itself to members on both sides of the House. The function of Parliament as a deliberative and amending body- the initiative of Parliament as opposed to the Government- has not always been recognised as well as it should have been. 
Having said that, I advert to one somewhat pedestrian and mechanical matter. One of the troubles in obtaining without delay the services one requires is that the skilled people are not necessarily always available. We should be thinking of ways not merely of attracting to the 
Government service people with the necessary basic capacity but also of training people who can undertake these functions. I believe that one of the things that should be done is in conformity with sub-clause (c) of clause 3 of the Bill now before the House which relates to 'functions incidental to any of the preceding functions'. I suggest that one of the functions which should be carried oat and which is not carried out is the immediate consolidation of Acts which have been amended by this Parliament. This does not require the same high degree of skill as the initial drafting of an Act but it does require some skill and experience. Furthermore, the kind of skill and experience which it would involve is such as would provide a very good training ground for those who have the capacity but come into the service without the necessary experience. 
I believe it should be a matter of routine that when an Act is amended by the Parliament then within, shall I say, a fortnight the amended consolidated Act should be available as a reprint. I see no mechanical reason why this should not be done. I know there will be talk of how difficult it would be to achieve. I remember very well when we instituted the daily Hansard and I can remember how I was told, when I made the initial moves for this, that this was technically impossible and could not be done. But it was done and I think that honourable members will agree that the daily Hansard is something which adds very much to the proper workings of this House. So I ask the Government to consider that it should be a matter of routine that, when the Parliament has passed an amending Act, the consolidated Act should be available, shall I say, within a fortnight and it should be available regularly for the benefit, not just of members of this House of Parliament who when they have done their work are more or less finished with that Act, but for the benefit of members of the public who sometimes find it difficult to discover the proper text in the Act and the amending Act. 
I think that the present position is better than it was. What I am saying is not meant as any criticism of the Government at all because I believe the Government has made some improvements and things are not as bad as they were; but they are still not good enough and it would be of great advantage to members of the public and the legal profession if they could always have available an up to date consolidated Act showing what the law is rather than having to go to an Act, look at its amendments and try to put the thing together in a kind of jigsaw. I know that very often members of this House receive a copy of a Bill which is brought into the House and which refers to a principal Act. Very often that principal Act is consolidated and members have to have only one document on their desk when they are looking at the Act. However, there are many occasions- some of them have occurred quite recently- where a Bill amends an Act which has not been properly consolidated. In such circumstances it is very difficult, even for a member of this House with experience, to find his way through the maze. I repeat that I do not think the situation is as bad as it was and I think that the Government has made some advances in this regard, but the position is still not good enough. 
Finally,  Sir, I  wish to say something which perhaps is not entirely relevant but it will take only a minute and perhaps you will excuse me. When there is before the House a Bill to amend what is known as a principal Act or a consolidated Act it would be of great convenience to members if at the same time copies of the principal Act were available in the attendants' box. This would mean that when the matter came before the House it would be possible for those members who wanted to follow what was being done to have always before them a convenient consolidated Act to refer to. I know I have transgressed a little in that regard, but I think you will agree,  Sir, that  it is not a trangression which is inexcusable. 
I support the Bill. I have, as my friend the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  has, some doubts as to whether there is any point in having a new Minister responsible rather than the Attorney-General. I certainly shall support- I hope the Government will accept and members will support it- the amendment that has been moved by the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard).  In addition I wish to make the constructive suggestionI hope it is constructive- that one part of the Office of Parliamentary Counsel, in accordance with sub-section (c) of section 3, should be devoted to the immediate consolidation of Acts which have been amended by Bills passed by the Parliament and that these consolidated Acts should, as a matter of routine, be available shall I say within a fortnight of the time of their assent by the Governor-General. 
-I will not detain the House but for a moment. I would like to advert to some of the remarks which the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  was good enough to make in regard to my previous suggestions. I am sorry that he should have thought I was grudging in what I said about the improvements the Government has made in relation to the consolidation of the Acts. It was not grudging at all. It is natural enough for a Minister always to fear something from the Opposition. Time Danaos et dona ferentes, but in this case I assure the Minister that there is no Trojan horse and the citadel is not worth taking. I wish to put some matters to him. The first is in regard to the drafting skills required by the proposal I have made that there should be always a consolidated Act a fortnight or so after the Parliament has passed an amending Bill. The drafting skills are there and the note from the Parliamentary Counsel which the Minister read a moment ago agrees with my assertion that the drafting skills are there. 
Let me make some practical remarks. The amount of drafting necessary and the amount of intellectual work necessary are much less in the case of something which is engaging the attention of the Parliamentary Counsel at the time it goes through the Parliament than it would be if the Parliamentary Counsel had to refresh his memory by looking at something which was done many years or months before. Therefore what I am suggesting is not an increase but a diminution of the total work required. I know that perhaps it would be done at a less convenient time because the Bills are passed when the Parliament is sitting. I take that point, but I still say that on the whole the Parliamentary Counsel has agreed that this can be done. Secondly, this could provide a good kind of training ground and an opportunity for the acquirement by experience of those skills which a parliamentary counsel or draftsman requires. That stands by itself as being self-evident. 
Thirdly, the Parliamentary Counsel said that it cannot be done by the Government Printer. He does not talk about the difficulties in his office which he knows are surmountable but says that it cannot be done by the Printer under existing conditions. This I take with a grain of salt and I back my position with some practical experience because I can remember very well when I put up the proposal for a daily Hansard being told that the Printer could not do it, it was absolutely impossible. Yet when I went to the Printer and looked at the machinery that was available it was found that there was a way of doing it. It was done and it has operated successfully. So I take with a grain of salt the statement that it cannot be done with the existing resources of the Printer. The work required is not very much extra. I put that example forward as a complete analogy. This is the kind of statement we heard in regard to the daily Hansard. We heard it falsely then and I am afraid that it is false now. However, it is a matter which becomes of minor importance because when the Minister says that computerisation which is to take place at the Printing Office will reduce the labour required it means that what I am suggesting will be able to be done more expeditiously. If this is to occur very soon, then I am not really trying to press a point which will solve itself in the course of the next few weeks or months. I hope it will not be the next few years. It would be of very great convenience not just to members in this House but also to the people outside who have to use and live by the law if they could rely always on having a complete and consolidated text of Bills and, indeed, of ordinances available to them when they come to perform the offices of their daily business life. 
I again ask the Minister to accept my assurances that there was nothing grudging in what I said in regard to the Government's move to consolidate past Acts. It is, I think, quite wrong that we allowed them to remain from 1950 unconsolidated, although of course, as the Minister would know, many of the more important Acts during that time were consolidated. 
I am not talking about history. I am not talking about the consolidation of the Acts which were passed last year or the year before. I am talking about the consolidation of those Acts which are most important to people because they involve something new. If they were not the most important and relevant Acts, then the Government would not be bringing forward amendments to them. It is because they are the Acts that the Government is amending now that it is desirable in every way that these Acts being amended now should be the Acts which are available to people who have to live under and by the law. 
Clause agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill- by leave- take as a whole, and agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
My question to the Minister for Services and Property relates to the purchase of approximately 60 acres of land from Leyland Motor Corporation of Australia Ltd. What price was paid for this land? What arrangements were made in regard to the improvements on it? What Minister negotiated the sale? What were the unimproved capital value and the improved capital value at the relevant date? If he is not in a position to give the details now, will he make them available to me later this week? 
-I support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott).  It seemed to me that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  and the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  had not really reached the point of this Bill and of this amendment. They all agreed that most divorces were by consent; 80 per cent or more were by consent. For those divorces which are by consent the amendment does preserve the 12-months period of separation; it does not attempt to shorten it. But there are many cases in which divorce is not by consent and in which perhaps it is not more likely that the reconciliation would take place in 24 months than in 12 months, but there is some likelihood of it taking place after 12 months and before 24 months has elapsed. For those cases, there should be some kind of consideration by this House. 
The other day I received a pathetic letter from a lady who is known to most members of this House. I will not name her. She has been deserted by her husband, as happens very often when a man becomes infatuated with a younger woman. A period of 12 months has elapsed, but she believes that he could come back to her. She pleads for this extra 12 months. There are many cases like that. Also, we have had the very reasonable point put forward by the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  and the right honourable member for Bruce  (Mr Snedden)  that the reality of fault is not removed by trying to write it out of the Bill; it comes back into the Bill in clause 75. We do need, I think, to maintain the concept of fault which may in itself be a reason for the preservation of many marriages. 
Let me put one point which seems to have escaped the notice of the people who drafted this clause. The honourable member for Moreton and the right honourable member for Bruce spoke of the wrongs of a woman who could not obtain instant relief. What about the possible wrong to the man? In all cases, 12 months is to be waited. What about the case in which the wife has committed adultery? It is well known that the period of gestation for the human female is 9 months. Under this Bill, although a man knew his wife was having a child that was not his, he would be unable to divorce her and he would find under the provisions of this Bill that he would have to adopt as his, as it would be born in his marriage, a child who was not his at all. This is an absurd case. The situation is absurd. No man should be put in that situation at all. I suggest that, for that reason, if for no other, the concept of fault has to be maintained in the Bill so that in this kind of case there could be instant relief. It does not help the child and it does not help the relief of bitterness that a woman should be able to say to a man: 'This child will be yours in terms of our marriage. You know that it is not yours. But you are going to take the responsibility for it'. This is something which I believe is avoided by the very reasonable amendment put forward by the honourable member for Wentworth, which I support. 
-My feelings are very much in line with those expressed by the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock)  a moment ago. It seems to me that the Bill confuses the issue and does not meet it clearly. When there is a contest between 2 citizens in any matter they must have available to them the proper processes of law and unhappily that must mean legal representation ana a proper court. But surely there should be a place for a family court whose first objective must be to explore the possibility of reconciliation in a matrimonial matter and which would have the function of dealing with those matters where there is consent, where there is no contest in the court between 2 people. The family court should be able to make an order without the apparatus of law if there is that kind of consent between the 2 parties, and in a matrimonial cause there are 2 parties. It should be able to operate entirely informally and without paid lawyers to settle the matter. 
After all, we were told by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  this afternoon and by other speakers that more than 80 per cent of matrimonial cases could be concluded with consent. If this is done and if there is a proper apparatus towards this objective, if we can have a family court which is not half informal- as this kind of hybrid court is- but an entirely informal court without the function of being able to judge between 2 people who are opposed to one another but with the function of registering an agreement which they have made in accordance with law and after the satisfaction of the criteria laid down by the Bill, I think we would have something sensible. But this hybrid thing is neither one thing nor the other, it is a court and yet it is not a court. It is a counselling service and yet is not a counselling service. 
I have put forward a series of amendments which will stand or fall together. It seems to me that the family court which we create by this Bill should be quite different from the kind of family court which is envisaged by the Bill itself. As I have said, I would like to see reserved for those people who feel they have a contest, one with the other, the right to go to a proper court of law; but, for those 80 per cent or 90 per cent of people in this jurisdiction who reach agreement by consent after the proper delay, I would hope that there would be some kind of arrangement under which no lawyer would be involved. This would be better because before agreement is registered the primary function of this 'court'- put that word in inverted commas if you like, because it is not a real court- should be to reconcile, to see whether there is some way, without the contention of paid lawyers on one side or the other, in which the 2 people can be brought together to reconcile their differences and to proceed with their marriage. It does seem to me that this hybrid court does not properly fulfil that kind of function. 

 -Mr Chairman, you will notice that the provision for the appointment of Director of Counselling and Welfare does not appear until clause 37 of the Bill whereas reference to him is made in clauses 14 and 15 of the Bill. It is purely a matter of drafting. I suggest that the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  might consider it. 
I do not follow you,  Mr Chairman.  I shall require the right to speak to one of my amendments later on. Do I lose that right if I speak now? 
-Perhaps I can take the opportunity now, to say, firstly, that I do not quite follow the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  in this. If a party to a judicial separation feels aggrieved- that is, the party who does not have the strong feeling against divorce after a year's separation- he will be able to move on the ordinary ground and the other party, who may be the wronged party but has a reluctance towards divorce, would not be in a position of initiating. I think that is important and I think it may have been overlooked by the Attorney-General. I just want to say that one of my amendments is the same as that to be moved by the AttorneyGeneral, and I shall not press it. The difference between our amendments is one of drafting. The amendment to be proposed by the AttorneyGeneral in regard to the definition of 'welfare officer' seeks to insert after 'children', the words 'being an organiation that has been approved by the Attorney-General '. As I said, I shall not press my amendment. 
Again on a drafting matter, I refer to subclause (3) which relates to the definition of the domicile of a party to a marriage. There is confusion in the drafting of this part of the clause. Again I think it is only a matter of drafting and not a matter of substance. One will see that paragraphs (a) and (b) of the sub-clause are in conflict one with another. One has to be made subject to the other. Paragraph (a) states:  a person's domicile . . . howsoever acquired, shall be deemed to have continued . . . 
Paragraph (b) states:  the domicile of a woman who is, or has at any time been, married shall be determined as if she had never been married; . . . 
These 2 paragraphs obviously are in conflict because howsoever acquired may mean acquired by marriage. It is purely a drafting matter to insert the provision that paragraph (b) be subject to (a). Again I put this matter not as one of substance but purely as one of drafting. There is a logical confusion at the moment between paragraph (a) and paragraph (b) of sub-clause (3). 

 -Yes, Sir, I moved both of my amendments. I shall not speak to the first amendment because I understand that the Attorney-General is accepting it, or moving in the same terms. My amendment No. 12 to subclause (3) has been moved and I have given the reasons for moving it. Again this is purely a drafting amendment because there is a logical conflict between paragraphs (a) and (b) of this sub-clause. 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That the following matter be referred to the Joint Committee of Public Accounts under the provisions of section 8 (d) of the Public Accounts Committee Act: 
.  Whether, and if so to what extent, payments of unemployment benefits have been made during this financial year to persons not entitled under the law to receive them. 
Any matters connected with the foregoing which in the opinion of the Committee should be reported to the House. 
I move circulated amendment No. 12. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause 4, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 5 agreed to. 
Clause 6. 
For the purpose of proceedings under this Act, a union in the nature of a marriage which is, or has at any time been, polygamous, being a union entered into in a place outside Australia, shall be deemed to be a marriage. 
Circulated amendments. 

 (Mr Wentworth)- After 'Australia' insert 'by persons ordinarily resident in such place, in accordance with the laws of that place'. 
14)  (Mr Howard)-  At the end of the clause add: 'except where one party to the marriage is married according to Australian law or except where either party at the time of the marriage is an Australian citizen '. 
I move circulated amendment No. 13. As honourable members know, this clause raises some questions of great difficulty. Polygamous marriages are legal in places outside Australia but illegal in Australia. The clause as it stands in the Bill reads: 
For the purpose of proceedings under this Act, a union in the nature of a marriage which is, or has at any time been, polygamous, being a union entered into in a place outside Australia, shall be deemed to be a marriage. 
This is not only for the purposes of principal relief but also for ancillary purposes of maintenance and other matters under this Bill. The clause would mean that an Australian resident going abroad to a country where polygamy was accepted would be able to return to Australia polygamously married although he may already have had a wife in Australia. I realise that involved in this are questions of international law which are very difficult, but it seems to me that the clause would be improved if it were made to read in this way: 
For the purpose of proceedings under this Act, a union in the nature of a marriage which is, or has at any time been, polygamous, being a union entered into in a place outside Australia by persons ordinarily resident in such place, in accordance with the laws of that place, shall be deemed to be a marriage. 
I think it is necessary to put some kind of limit on the operation of this clause so that persons in Australia who are legally married, in accordance with the laws of Australia, to somebody in Australia should not be in a position to go abroad and contract another marriage. 
-The honourable member may speak from his own experience. I know that there are difficulties under the Marriage Act. It is difficult to interpret the law in regard to polygamy. But whatever the law may be, I do not think we should make it any wider. I do not see any reason why my amendment should not be accepted because it does not in any way go outside the express desires of those who are advocating the Bill. 
I wish to make some remarks about this clause in general and then move my amendment No. 64.I am a little worried about the operation of this clause which makes the jurisdiction of the court very wide in relation to people who are visitors to Australia. This may be important, because many countries have provisions under which they will not recognise what are known as quickie divorces in other countries. Some difficult legal anomalies may arise with regard to this matter. It will be practicable for one party to a marriage to come to Australia, to live here for a year and then, because he or she is separated and has evidence of separation, to sue for divorce from the other party and obtain it without any other ground. It may be a divorce which in international law is not recognised by certain other countries. Anomalies may therefore arise. This is a complicated question and I will not press it. I make those comments as a preface to what I am now going to say. I move circulated amendment No. 64: 
After sub-clause (3) add: 
Provided that no such proceedings shall be finalised unless- 
the Court is satisfied that the respondent has received due notice of the application, or 
the Court is satisfied that it is impracticable to serve such notice on the respondent and that, having regard to all the circumstances, it would be equitable- 
The circulated amendment should read 'equitable ' and not 'inequitable '-  for the application to proceed. ' 
As the clause stands now it would be possible for someone to visit Australia, to stay here for a year or establish domicile which may take less than a year, and then sue for divorce on the grounds of living apart from the other party for a year. The other party would not even know that this had occurred. It seems to me that in such circumstances the court has a duty to that other party to ensure that reasonable notice is given. There may be cases in which it is impracticable to give notice. In those circumstances there is a let-out under clause (b) of the amendment which I have moved. Surely the Committee will accept that it is absolutely inequitable for circumstances to arise in which a man or a woman can be divorced by legal processes in Australia, without ever knowing or having a chance to know that the petition was being lodged. I ask the Committee to consider this matter seriously. It is one which I suppose is a matter of form and not of substance. I repeat the amendment which I have drafted: 
Provided that no such proceedings shall be finalised unless- 
the Court is satisfied that the respondent has received due notice of the application, or 
the Court is satisfied that it is impracticable to serve such notice on the respondent . . . 
I think the Committee will agree that the amendment is eminently reasonable in view of the very wide residential jurisdiction which we have just conferred on the court under the provisions of the previous part of this clause. Apparently anybody can go to the court if he is an Australian citizen, if he is domiciled in Australia, or if he is ordinarily resident in Australia and has been so resident for one year. As I have said, this opens the door to Australia becoming a divorce mill for people from overseas. It may result in there being granted in Australia divorces which would not be recognised overseas. That is a matter for overseas law and not for Australian law. But surely what is a matter for Australian law is that, in circumstances where a visitor to Australia institutes divorce proceedings, due notice should be given to the respondent so that he or she will have an opportunity to answer the charges and will not find himself or herself divorced without even knowing that the proceedings had been instituted. I hope the Committee will agree to this amendment, which is a matter of mechanics and not of substance. 
I move amendment No. 93 circulated in my name. This amendment stands on quite a different footing from any other amendment that has been put in the course of this debate, for the simple reason that the clause to which it relates is quite different from any other clause of the Bill and does not itself relate to the main thrust of the Bill. Clause 5 1 changes what are known as the prohibited degrees of marriage. It allows marriage between people who are nearly related whether by blood or marriage- marriages which are prohibited under our present law. The amendment I have moved is simply to keep the present law and not to change it; certainly not to change it wantonly, lightly or inadvisedly. This matter has received no adequate consideration by the Committee. It is a fundamental change. 
The existing law is set out in the Second Schedule to the Matrimonial Causes Act. With the repeal of that Act the Schedule goes with it and in its place we are to have sub-clause (3) of clause 5 1 of this Bill, which states: 
Marriages that are within a prohibited relationship are marriages- 
between a person and an ancestor or descendant of the person; or 
between a brother and a sister (whether of the whole blood or the half-blood). 
This means that any other marriage is now to be permitted- a marriage, for example, between an uncle and a niece or between an aunt and a nephew. I do not want to go into the merits of such marriages as there is not time to do so, but I point out to the Committee that this is a fundamental thing going right back over the thousands of years of human relationships. I shall read just a couple of extracts from the 'Encyclopaedia Britannica'. Referring to incest, it states: 
Incest is universally condemned and usually greeted with horror; 
It also states: 
Some combination of endogomony and exogomony is found in most societies. All have incest prohibitions. These are not based on genetic knowledge. Indeed, many incest taboos involve persons not genetically related . . . The prime reason for incest prohibition seems to be the necessity for preventing society from becoming snarled in its own web: every person has a complex set of duties, rights, obligations, and statuses with regard to other people, and these would become intolerably complicated or even contradictory if incest were freely permitted. 
Now we are changing the fundamental law of incest and we are creating the absurd position that sexual relationships of certain kinds will be a crime of incest under State laws- certain State laws; the laws differ from State to State- but still marriage will be permitted. This is quite ridiculous. 
The main point I am making is that we are doing this without any consideration at all. We are making a fundamental change in the nature of sexual relationships in society. We are saying that a number of things which previously have been regarded as incest are not now to be regarded as incest. Marriage is to be permitted, for example, between an aunt and a nephew or between an uncle and a niece. This may be right or wrong, but it is a fundamental change and it is being made without any proper consideration. In the Senate debate on this Bill this matter was not mentioned. I believe that it was mentioned in one of the Senate Committees. In this chamber at present are about 12 honourable members. Yet in a moment we may be voting on this question without most honourable members realising what has happened. This is quite apart from the other provisions of the Bill. It has been put in and nobody seems to understand that we are making this fundamental change. It has never been discussed. I shall not say whether it is a wrong change or a right change; what I am saying is that we should not make such a change without talking about it. We should preserve, as my amendment seeks to preserve, the current situation. If there has to be change, let it be made after due consideration. This is a most fundamental matter which, as I have said, goes to the root of all human relationships. For thousands of years societies have regarded this incest taboo as one of the main structural things in the form of their organisation. Do not let us change it now without considering what we are doing. 
I move circulated amendment No. 94.I put it to the Committee that the interval of one month between the decree nisi and the decree absolute is insufficient. Let me put one reason why it may be insufficient in certain cases. The Committee has agreed to the provision that parties may be deemed to be living separately and apart even though one performs some domestic services for the other. This may mean that until the decree nisi is granted they do not have any idea of what living apart really means. It may be that when they get some experience of living apart, unable to perform these services one for another, they may think differently. I see no reason why there should not be a reasonable interval- surely 3 months is a reasonable interval- between the decree nisi and the decree absolute. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 56 agreed to. 
Clauses 57 to 60- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 61 agreed to. 
Clauses 62 to 7 1 -by leave- taken together. 
I most certainly support this amendment. It perhaps, is an amendment which as the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  said a moment ago, may not be strictly necessary, but nevertheless, it does add to the implications of this clause and it sets the tone in the right way. But there is another reason why I can say this, and that is the interaction of this clause with paragraph (f) of clause 75 (2) which is before us. I want the Committee to remember that of the widows pensions that the Government pays over half are paid not to de jure widows but to notional widows- that is, to separated and divorced women- it is the availability of this pension which makes this amendment which has been moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Fraser)  so much desired, because what is happening is that only a small subvention from the husband or the ex-husband will be capable of keeping a woman in domestic circumstances rather than sending her out to work, as the pension will be available also. As honourable members will know, there is what is known as a free area with regard to the pension and there is a tapering provision also. So on the whole this may by one of the important things which will not put too heavy a burden on the ex-husband but will enable the ex-wife to remain in domestic circumstances rather than go out to full time work. Very often full time work is available, as honourable members know, whereas part time work is not. As a matter of practicality I think it is very often for a woman not a choice between part time work and full time work but a choice between full time work or no work, and that will, of course, affect her aligibility for the widows pension. For these reasons I think there is something really practical in the amendment that has been put by the Leader of the Opposition. But beyond these practical aspects I think it is very desirable, because it does add something to the whole tone of this clause and makes clear, as surely we want to make clear, that an elderly woman whose marriage has broken up should not have to go out to full time work. We want to make it clear that, at any rate, she will have some kind of claim on her ex-husband. Let us remember that, in the nature of things, there will be many cases where an elderly woman is deserted without just cause by a husband of similar age who is able to find a young partner, whereas the woman would have the same capacity to do so. This is human, and I am afraid it is one of the differences between the sexes which will not be eliminated by any law of this or any other parliament. 
I move new clause 81a standing in my name. It suggests that if the parties have reached an agreement, that agreement shall be ratified in the Family Court unless there is good cause to the contrary. I imagine that this is something which will generally be done. But I think it is not a bad idea to make it explicit. The motive for doing this is to reduce the legalism in the Family Court and to reduce the opportunity for legal representation in that Court. When something is agreed between the parties, and unless there is good cause to the contrary, in my view the Court should ratify the agreement. As I have said, I believe that this is generally what the Court will do, but it would not be a bad thing to make this explicit in the legislation. 
-I want to draw the Committee's attention to subclause (7) because I do not know whether the implications of this sub-clause have been realised fully by the Committee. Clause 83 deals with the revision of orders already made and sub-clause (7) states: 
For the purposes of this section, the court shall have regard to the provisions of sections 72,75 and 76. 
I do not know whether it is realised by the Committee that this sub-clause may affect not only orders to be made under this new Act but also existing orders which may also have been made under the previous Matrimonial Causes Act. I do not know whether the Committee realises that what it is doing may have a possible retrospective effect on these other agreements. It seems to me that it would be preferable to insert the words  , in relation to orders made under this Act, ' after the word 'shall'. The sub-clause would then read: 
For the purposes of this section, the court shall, in relation to orders made under this Act, have regard to the provisions of sections 72, 75 and 76. 
It does seem to me that it has not been realised, either by the Committee or by persons outside the House, that what we are doing here may have a considerable retrospective effect and I do not believe that this has been drawn to the attention of either the Committee or of people outside this House who might be interested in the matter. I believe that the amendment I have suggested, in point of fact, only does what the Bill means to do. If it is the wish of the Committee that the Bill should have retrospective effect upon agreements already entered into or orders already made under the Matrimonial Causes Act, I think we should make this explicit. I move this amendment in order to test the feelings of the Committee in regard to this and to make clear one way or the other that we mean this to have retrospect effect or we do not. 
-I move amendment No. 131 circulated in my name which is framed in such a way as to provide informality in the Family Court. I believe that anybody aggrieved by any decision of the Family Court should have full access, on appeal, to another court and in that other court should have full access to legal opinion and legal advice. But if we are to have a Family Court where there is the minimum of legality it would be a good thing if paid lawyers did not appear in that Family Court. I would think this would be in accordance with the general principles of the Bill. 
The Family Court is meant to be a court primarily of reconciliation. Surely there is no place in it for legal representatives who are concerned, in the very nature of things, with contention. I believe that anybody feeling aggrieved should have the opportunity of contention and I would not for one moment take away from any party the right, if that party feels aggrieved, to have the matter heard by a court with full legal representation. But what I am concerned with is the first and preliminary hearing in the Family Court. If the Family Court finds in a way which is satisfactory to both parties and which they would both consider fair- I believe in 95 per cent of the cases it would be like that- there is surely no reason for paid legal representation in that Family Court. 
The Family Court or family counselling service or tribunal- call it what you like- primarily should be a body concerned with reconciliation. If it is not successful in reconciliation it should next be concerned with getting the thing cleaned up with the minimum of contention and leaving the minimum of bitterness behind it. I think it would be very good if in that Family Court we did not have paid lawyers representing the parties. Of course I would agree that we have to preserve to the parties the right, if they find themselves aggrieved by this non-legal tribunal as it were, to go to another court with full legal representation. I would not for one moment think of taking that right away from them. But I believe it would be very much in the spirit of this Bill if we were to say that in the Family Court there should not be legal representation and that parties should come forward and try to put their cases in a way which minimises bitternesses and which enables reconciliation to take place if it be at all possible. 
If it be found that reconciliation is not possible let the judgment of the Family Court be given with the minimum of bitterness, the minimum of contention. Again I say that if anybody feels aggrieved they have to have- and under our principles of law they should have- the right of appeal to a court where there is full legal representation. I would not for one moment countenance a final judgment without the possibility of appeal to a court where legal representation is complete. I would hope that if a proposal such as is contained in my circulated amendment is provided, in 95 per cent of the cases there would be no appeal and the case would be heard without benefit of lawyers and in a way which would give the maximum opportunity for reconciliation to be urged. Indeed if, as I have said, there could be no reconciliation the proceedings should leave behind them to the parties and to the children the minimum of bitterness. Lawyers are paid for contention, and if lawyers are involved they will necessarily import the concept of bitterness into the case. In some cases this cannot be avoided, but wherever possible let us have the maximum opportunity of reconciliation and the minimum risk of bitterness for the parties and their children. 
-My suggestions here are purely ones of form. Apparently there has been omitted from the matters which can be published or printed the publishing or printing of a judgment of a court. I think that that would be implicit and it should be possible. For instance, clause 121 (5) (b) states: 
The printing or publishing of a notice or report in pursuance of the direction of a court; 
But there is no provision for the printing or publishing of a judgment of a court except insofar as it is intended for the use of members of the legal profession. I do not think this is reasonable. The court's judgment as such should be published if the court so requires. 
The other matter on which I understand the Attorney-General will move an amendment follows from an observation I made during the second reading stage in regard to the drafting of the Bill. Of course, I would support that amendment. But I suggest to the Attorney-General that perhaps he might consent to the inclusion of a new provision relating to the printing or publishing of a judgment of a court. I accordingly move amendment No. 147. 
I continue to speak on the motion which states: 
That, in the opinion of this House, restrictions upon the granting of supplementary assistance to pensioners are too severe. 
In these days of inflation there are some forgotten people. The pensioners of whom I speak are some of the forgotten people. They are not getting the benefit of indexation. For a pensioner the great expenditure is probably that of accommodation. It is for that reason that I have moved motions in regard to pensioner accommodation. Supplementary assistance, as honourable members know, is called rent allowance. It is paid to those pensioners who have to pay rent. There is another class of pensioner who is in difficulty about accommodation and that is the pensioner who, by reason of inflation, finds the burden of rates and taxes imposed upon his home of increasing severity. It is for that reason that another motion is to be brought on in due time. It states: 
That, in the opinion of this House, finance should be made available to assist pensioners who own their own homes to meet rates and other necessary outgoings. 
I simply say, almost by way of aside, that this is a matter which will be brought on in the future. It is the other half of the present motion. I turn now to this motion in regard to supplementary assistance or rent allowance. Rent allowance was brought in as an addition to the pension in 1958. It was increased in 1965. Then, when I was Minister, I brought in a Bill which increased the amount again to $4 a week. At the same time the allowance was made payable to a married couple. Previously they were excluded. 
-The means test is still too severe and it has become more severe by reason of inflation. 
-By reason of inflation the means test on supplementary assistance has become more severe. This Government increased supplementary assistance from $4 a week to $5 a week. That was an inadequate increase, but it was still an increase. The Government did nothing about the means test on supplementary assistance. This means test is particularly hard. Let me tell the House about this assistance. For every bit of income above $1 a week the supplementary assistance is reduced by an equivalent amount. So, if a pensioner has an income of $4 a week his supplementary assistance is reduced by $3 a week. If he has an income of $5 a week he gets only $1 a week supplementary assistance. If he has an income of $6 a week- a magnificent sum- he does not get any rent allowance at all. In these days of inflation this is far too severe. If I may say so, I think it was far too severe in the days before we had inflation. I am sure that if we had remained in government this is one of the next things we would have done. We did a lot in regard to this supplementary assistance. We doubled it. We made married couples eligible. But we still kept the sudden death of the $1 for $1 diminution of pension by reason of income. This is too hard a level. 
But whatever we did, the position is much worse now. With the rise in prices $1 is worth much less today. If the Government were to restore the circumstances which existed when we were in office, there would have to be some easing of this means test. I hope that one thing which will be done will be the raising of supplementary assistance. But I suggest also that the means test should be radically altered. This will not be a tremendously expensive matter. At the present moment there are approximately 268 000 people on supplementary assistance. That excludes the 20 000 or so people who receive supplementary assistance through the supporting mothers benefit. It is very difficult to ascertain how many are excluded by the means test. 
The Department of Social Security is not in a position to give the exact figure. On the available figures there would be perhaps as many as 300 000 people who do not own their own homes and do not receive supplementary assistance. But that is a most misleading figure because it includes married couples who would draw only one rent allowance and it includes a number of people- a majority of them- who are living with their families and do not pay rent. At present nobody either inside or outside the Department can give any more than an estimate, but I should think that if the means test were removed entirely- I am not suggesting that- there probably would be somewhere in the order of 100 000 extra claimants. At the present rate that would represent an additional expenditure of $25m a year, which is a large sum but not a collossal sum. 
I would suggest not that we remove the means test altogether from those who pay rent but that we ease it very substantially. The means test presses hard not only upon the people who do not receive pensions but also- I think even more so, very often- upon the people who do receive pensions. I know of many cases of people saying: 'I would like to take a part time job. I would like to earn a little bit. I would like to do something for myself. But if I do I will lose my supplementary assistance'. I believe that that makes it very difficult. Perhaps it would be possible to introduce a tapering system into the general means test. It might be better to do it in some other way. But let us ease it in some way not only to help the people who do not receive supplementary assistance now but also to help the people who do receive supplementary assistance to lead a better life by being able to do something for themselves. 
I know that the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  has done something in the most urgent field- that is, in regard to the sheltered workshops- and I give him credit for that. But that does not apply to the many age pensioners and invalid pensioners who are in the same kind of position and are not employed in sheltered workshops. We should help those people to do something for themselves. It would not be expensive. This is one of the areas in which the shoe pinches, in which inflation has caught up the most. The accommodation problem is the one that for many pensioners is the most urgent of all their problems. Something should, and I hope, will be done for those who own their own homes and are being pressed by having to pay increased rates and taxes as a result of the inflationary situation and for those who are still paying rent. 
-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I want to make a very brief remark in regard to clause 4.I commend particularly to the Government 3 matters which seem to me to come under clause 4 and which perhaps illustrate different phases of what this Bill should do. The first of these matters is the rain forest and the wet desert on the eastern face of Cape York. This is probably the most important ecological area in Australia because it is a very limited and unique area. I would put it perhaps in the same kind of category as the Barrier Reef. It is an area of quite limited extent to which special attention should be directed. I ask the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  to have a special look at the rain forest and the associated area known as the wet desert on the eastern face of Cape York towards the north. 
The second area I commend to the Minister's attention in one which has a social significance; that is the area in the mountains behind Sydney. As honourable members will know, Sydney has the greatest concentration of population in Australia and therefore the area behind it has a special significance. Some of it has been set aside already in the Blue Mountains National Park but I am referring to the area that lies to the north of this; that is, the area on the northern side of the Colo River. This area is approximately of 2 million acres and at present it is virtually bush. It needs to be protected from timber cutters. I do not say that there should be no timber cutting in the area but I do say that timber cutting in it should be very carefully controlled and supervised, and the area needs to be protected from any other kind of despoliation. It is an area which goes up to over 4000 feet in elevation. It contains some very rough country, some basalt country and some country which is of a more inclined nature. It is what was known as the old Kings Range area Mount Coricudgy, Coriaday, Monandilla the area to the west of the Putty valley. I regard this as one of the most important areas in Australia to which special attention should be directed. That is the second category. It is an area of social significance. The Cape York area is an area which has ecological significance. The area to the west of the Putty valley is of special importance as regards Sydney. 
Thirdly, I want to speak of an area which is of historic significance. I believe the Government may already have something under consideration for this area, but I ask for urgent action. I refer to the old Parramatta cemetery, the most important historic cemetery in Australia. Some of the families who have graves in this area have seen to their renovation and kept them in proper order. But many of the other most historic graves are in a terrible state. I have gone there and have seen sepulchres broken open and skulls and bones lying around on the ground. Yet this is without question the most important historic cemetery in Australia; it stands quite preeminent. There is a brick wall around the cemetery. It was built of concrete bricks about 130 or 120 years ago and is now in the process of decay. It is falling down; it is in very bad repair. This should be put in order straight away. When I look at things of quite minor historical importance on which the Government is spending $10,000, $20,000, $30,000, $40,000 and $50,000, and I see this thing of quite pre-eminent historical importance being neglected and allowed to decay, I wonder about the sense of proportion of the Government, particularly as this is not terribly far from the area represented by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren).  I am absolutely appalled at this lack of any sense of proportion, that this cemetery which, as I have said, is certainly the preeminently historic cemetery in Australia and perhaps one of the most important historic sites in Australia, should be neglected while we see the attention given to the town hall in Broken Hill and the Palace Hotel in Perth, places which no doubt are very worthy but which have not got one per cent of the significance of the site to which I have referred. Please,  Mr Minister,  will you tomorrow see that this great gap is fixed up? Do it tomorrow, please! 
asked the Minister for Services and Property, upon notice: 
What price was agreed on for approximately 60 acres of property in Sydney recently purchased by the Australian Government from Leyland Motors. 
What arrangement was made in the contract for the improvements on the property. 
What were the latest improved and unimproved capital values of the property available at the time of purchase. 
What valuation was obtained by the Government prior to purchase, who gave this valuation, and how was it arrived at. 
What Minister or Ministers were responsible for arranging the contract for purchase. 
-I give notice at the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That this House requires the Government to implement the principle of indexation of income tax rates in its next Budget. 
I hope that the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  and the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  will come into the chamber during the course of my speech because I have had them both told that I intend to say something reflecting upon the administration of their Departments. 
I shall be quite specific in a moment. The House will remember that about 10 days ago I gave notice of a motion asking to have referred to the Public Accounts Committee whether, and if so, to what extent, payments of unemployment benefits have been made during this financial year to persons not entitled under the law to receive them. I did this because from my experience as Minister for Social Services in the past government I knew that something was wrong. I knew this on the basis of departmental published figures and from what the Minister for Labor and Immigration had said in this House in regard to those published figures. The Department of Social Security publishes figures monthly of the persons who are registered as unemployed and it also publishes figures monthly of the persons who are receiving unemployment benefits who are registered as unemployed. From my experience, I have never known this number to be more than 44 per cent of the larger number, and it is usually down to about 30 per cent. 
I know that we are in an unusual situation. I know that the Government has made a great mess of the economy and that unusual factors are in operation. Nevertheless, it was obvious that something was wrong because at present whereas 265 000 people are unemployed, 168 000 people are receiving unemployment benefits. That represents  6VA  per cent. That figure obviously shows something is wrong, but it is seen to be even more revealing when one considers the statement of the Minister for Labor and immigration, who I see is now at the table. He said that the number of registered unemployed is far too high because it includes a number of people who are not actually unemployed at all. Of course he is right. But on this basis the real percentage would be not in the 60s but in the 80s. So there is obviously something wrong with the published figures. 
As it happens, I have in my hand correspondence in regard to a case of this character. I shall put the exact figures and facts before the House. This is a case of a man called Alan L. Dudley, who lives at 162 Penshurst Street, Penshurst. He lost his job because of the closing of the Hadfields Steel Works Ltd, due, I think, to the policy of the Government. However that is irrelevant. He went on unemployment benefits. Subsequently he got a job and came off unemployment benefits. He wrote and so notified the Department of Social Security but the cheques kept coming. He told the Department. He telephoned the Department time and time again. He could not stop the flood of cheques. 
He did not cash any of the cheques. I have 36 such cheques now in my hand and they total $1,286.50. 1 do not table them because they are real cheques; they are real money. I would not want them impounded on the table. But they are here. This man never cashed them. He notified the Department that he was not entitled to them and yet they kept coming. I am quite certain that this is not an isolated case. This is due to sheer incompetence in the Department. This is one of the reasons why we have this inordinately high payment for unemployment benefits. I am not trying to say that this is cheating the Government. There may be people cheating the Government. There may be bludgers. I do not know. But I am sure that this is not an isolated case, that there are many cases like this and that the computer is spewing out cheques right, left and centre to people who are not entitled to them. 
This may be a much more serious matter for some pensioners and recipients of benefits than may appear at first sight.  Mr Dudley  was very scrupulous and honest. He did not cash any of the cheques. He knew that he was not entitled to them and he notified the Department and filed the cheques. Here they are. 
Yes, most certainly, but give me a receipt for them. There are 36 of them. I have let the Minister see them. The Minister obviously cannot believe that this has happened, but it has. The important question is: What is the position of those other pensioners and recipients of benefits- I think there are probably thousands of them- who have received a cheque or two to which they were not entitled? Many of them would not have been as well aware of the position as was  Mr Dudley.  Perhaps they may have cashed them. Some time perhaps the computer will catch up with them and they will get demands for refunds. 
This happened in another case involving this same  Mr Dudley.  I have in my hand the official letters that set out the details.  Mr Dudley  was also entitled to a domiciliary nursing care benefit. He became unentitled to it, of course, when he became employed. But he kept on receiving the cheques in spite of his protestations. He filed those cheques also and did not cash them knowing that he was not entitled to them. On 26 September 1974 he received a letter from the Department saying that he had been overpaid by $130. It might be said that the computer caught up with him a little. He sent the cheques back and on 28 February 1975 he got a letter saying: 
Thank you for returning the cheques dated 18 July, 1 August, 15 August, 29 August and 12 September to offset the $130 you were previously overpaid. The overpayment has now been finalised. However, I have noted the total amount refunded adds up to $140. Therefore, it appears you over refunded $10'. 
But that was not the end of it. On 7 March he received a dunning letter from the Department asking him to return the $130 pronto. I have the letters here. It is obvious that there has been a major muck up in the Department. I believe that there is a great deal of this obvious- it is obvious and the Minister should have picked it up and I do not know why he has not- overpayment of unemployment benefits. The figures show it. I think probably up to $100m is involved. We do not know how much. I have given one specific instance. But I know from the figures that this is not an isolated instance. The Minister had better look at the situation. This overpaid money could really have been put to tremendously good use in his own Department if it were not refunded to Consolidated Revenue. Think of the things he could have done. Think, for example, of the supporting fathers benefit which should have been paid; and he knows it should have been paid. It could have been paid. 
-I would not intervene in this debate except to say that this action is typical of what the Government has done in the past. It is all in line with the Government's past performance. Whenever important matters are before this House the Government brings down the guillotine. Many of the most important Bills which affect the whole life of the people of Australia have been guillotined through this House without adequate discussion, sometimes with a very short debate on the second reading and very often without any discussion in Committee. I protest against this. I think that the Government should be ashamed of what it is doing. It is trying to keep from the people of Australia.  from  the Parliament and from this House, the truth about its policy. This is something which I believe is one of the main charges against the Government. All I can say is, Thank God for the Senate', because in the Senate at least the tyranny of numbers is not used and cannot be used to stifle debate in the way in which debate has been stifled and is being stifled in this House. The Government should be thoroughly ashamed not only of what it is doing today but of its record in this regard on so many occasions and in so many instances. I need say no more. I put it right on the line. This Government is guilty of concealment; it is trying to stop this House having an adequate chances to debate the very important matters that come before it. 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  proposed: 
That the question be now put 
On a point of order,  Mr Speaker.  The Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  has just uttered a threat which is a most improper threat. He knew - 
It is a most improper remark. I hope,  Mr Speaker,  that you will take action against the Minister at the table. 
Opposition members- No. 
-A good deal of nonsense has been spoken about the Government's proposals in this Bill, and I think it should be exposed. The Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  has put the whole case on the growth of the Australian population. The point is that the Australian population has ceased to grow. 
Motion ( by MrNicholas ) put: 
That the question be now put. 
I want to draw the attention of the House to a rather extraordinary set of circumstances concerned with the purchase of some land in Sydney from the Leyland Motor Corporation of Australia. On the face of it, the Government appears to have paid about $10m too much for this land. One does not know why, and some explanation should be given. The land was last valued in January 1973. Its unimproved capital value was then $7 m The Government gave $19 m for the land. The Government may say that it had a valuation of $20,500,000 for the improved land, and that is true, but the Government bought the land for housing and for demolition. The documents show this quite conclusively. Let me go through them. The original arrangements were made by the present Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns),  who was then, I think, Minister for Overseas Trade. He started these negotiations in September 1974. They were very friendly negotiations but by 9 October the acquisition of the land had been foreshadowed and the present Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  then, I think, Minister for Manufacturing Industry- was involved at that time with the negotiations. However, the originator, the initiator, and the prime mover appears to have been the present Treasurer. On 1 1 October there was an agreement to purchase, although the price was not yet mentioned, and the matter went to Caucus on 16 October. I read the report, which states: 
The Caucus move involves allegations that the deal: 
Is unconstitutional because the Federal Government has no authority to buy land and develop housing estates in any State. 
Was taken without the authority of Cabinet. 
Is a waste of money because the Leyland land, at Zetland in the heart of Sydney, is grossly overpriced at the $18m value attributed to it, and is unsuitable for residential purposes because of underground water problems. 
When this matter went before Caucus, Caucus held it up and put it to a committee. On 17 October the Federal Government got in contact with the New South Wales Government, asking that Government to re-zone the land so that it could be used for housing. There is no question that this was what was in the Government's mind at that time. On 23 October Caucus agreed, somewhat reluctantly, to the Government's plan and on 28 October the matter went to Cabinet again. Cabinet decided to go ahead with the purchase but to try to get the price down because the land was too dear for the housing for which the Government intended to buy it. That is shown on the documents. The whole thing is well documented here and if one puts together the various things that have been published, the matter is quite clear. Cabinet decided, as I have said, on that date, and I quote: 
Cabinet endorsed the decision to buy the site but added the stipulation that a lower price should be obtained, if possible. 
Then we come to the extraordinary thing. This was that at some time about 10 December representatives of the Army visited the site. They were told to visit it, and within 3 days it was decided that this site should be purchased for Army purposes. This meant that some value could be put on the improvements, and it would almost seem as though Cabinet and the Government or the Minister had gone out of its or his way to pay an extra $10m to Leyland, a multi-national firm. This is quite scandalous. I cannot read all the documents, because I have not time, but they are here and the matter is completely documented. The Minister or Cabinet or the Government, whichever it may be, appears deliberately to have gone out of his way or its way to find a means of paying an extra $ 10m to Leyland. This is quite extraordinary, because even after that the Government still meant to use the land for housing. 
In February this year the Department of Urban and Regional Development got in touch again with the New South Wales authorities and asked for the necessary re-planning to be done because it still had plans of using the land for housing. It is sure enough that this military use was thought up at the last moment as a way and means of giving to Leyland a price which was much greater than the unimproved value of the land and which previously had been discussed and arranged in general outline and principle with Leyland. That company had to get its $19,500,000 because that was the deal, and some way had to be found to give the company that money. It was not a case of resumption. Of course, if it is a case of resumption, the Government has to pay for what is the value of the improvements, whether the Government wants them or not. It was not that kind of thing at all, because this was a case where Leyland was asking the Government to bail that company out. 
Why, in these circumstances, is money paid for improvements? Perhaps the Government can make up the fiction that it sent the military down at the last moment and the military said that it could find a use for them. We know that this kind of fiction goes on inside Government departments when Ministers put the pressure on, but why was the action that I have mentioned taken in this case? As I have said, the Minister in charge throughout appears to have been the present Treasurer. Of course, the Minister at the table signed the contract as Minister for Services and Property, but I exonerate him entirely. It had nothing to do with him. He is simply the lay figure in all this. The negotiations appear to have been done by the present Treasurer. Why does he go out of his way? I do not think that he loves multi-national companies. Indeed, he has said often enough that he does not like them. He did not do it to preserve the jobs of the people working in the factory at Zetland, because they have lost their jobs. I do not think the Minister was corrupt. I do not think that in any way he took any consideration for this or did it on the side, but why did he do it? 
I have looked for this and I can find only one link, and that is a personal link in the Minister's staff. It is recorded in the Press that a  Mr Pola,  who was public relations officer for the company and a long-time member of the Australian Labor Party, was very close in these negotiations, and the other person is an ex-employee both of Leyland and of  Mr Pola  who was, for Leyland, in charge of her. That is somebody on the staff of the Treasurer, a Miss Junie Morosi. 
I am not saying anything against the Treasurer. What I am saying is that this is the sole link, because the association between  Mr Pola  and Miss Morosi is very close and everybody knows that for a long time the Treasurer has been putty in Miss Morosi 's hands. 
 Mr Speaker,  having been misrepresented - 
Firstly, I said that I considered the Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  the Minister responsible, and I did tell him that I was going to raise this matter. I knew that the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly),  whom I do not regard as the responsible person, would be in the House. Secondly, I withdraw nothing. I did not say that the improvements were not. worth this amount. What I said was that the Government resumed the land for housing and meant to demolish the - 
-Of course not. 
It still stands on the record that the Government applied for this purpose to the Government of New South Wales and meant to demolish the buildings. 
I was quite clear in saying that the improvements were there, but I also said that the Government resumed this land for housing purposes and right at the last moment raised this fictional defence issue within a few days - 
... that it would have an excuse to pay more for the land. 
-My question is directed to the Prime Minister. He will recall that on 2 1 May last, in answer to a question from the Leader of the Opposition relating to a loan to be raised by the Minister for Minerals and Energy, he replied, and I quote exactly and in full: 
The authority has been revoked. 
I ask: What was the precise nature of the authority which was revoked and how and when was it given? 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Does he or his Department know of any discussions taking place regarding changes in the Qantas services from Australia to Africa. 
If Qantas alters or abandons its present route from Perth to Johannesburg via Mauritius, what substitute route is contemplated for Qantas or any other airline. 
Have recent discussions taken place with any other airline regarding a route between Australia and Africa; if so, what is the nature of these discussions. 
-I ask for leave to make a personal explanation. 
-A few moments ago the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  said that I, in common with other honourable members, had voted for the gag in order to terminate the debate. This was not so. 
-As you would know,  Mr Speaker  - 

 - Sir, as you would know, the gag was moved - 

 -Mr Speaker, I think that nothing could be said which would detract in any way from the personal merits of either candidate for this position. I am sure that personally both honourable members are qualified to occupy the position. I think that perhaps the Labor Party has been wise in nominating one of the few of its members who is likely to retain his seat after the next general election. 
On a more serious note, may I say this: There is generally a tradition in this House that the  Chairman  of Committees should come from the Government side. On the whole, I think that that is a good tradition. I am wondering whether in these particular circumstances, that tradition should be observed. The particular circumstances arise because of the habit of the Prime Minister of hectoring and intimidating the occupants of the chair or the Chairmen in this House. 
Indeed,  Sir. While  I concede that both honourable members have personal merits, I am now debating the question as to whether we should follow the tradition of the House in electing somebody from the Government side as  Chairman.  I am saying,  Mr Speaker,  that this is generally a good tradition but in these particular circumstances I doubt that it is because I looked at the way in which the Prime Minister assassinated your predecessor in the chair. 

 - Sir, I am trying to make my point as relevant as I can. 
My point has a very great relevance to whether or not we should vote for the nominee from the Government side. That is the question before the House. What I am saying is entirely relevant to that question. I am saying that in these circumstances,  Mr Speaker-  and your predecessor in the chair would know the circumstances very well- there is something to be said for having in the chair as  Chairman  of Committees, somebody who does not come from the Government side.  Sir, what  I am saying, with all respect, is entirely relevant to that question. I remind the House and you,  Mr Speaker,  of the way in which the present Prime Minister, who continues as Prime Minister, assassinated your predecessor, and that is relevant. 
Members of the Opposition have been asked who are their backers. At the last election our backers were almost half the people of Australia. At the present moment our backers are twothirds of the people of Australia. Every supporter of the Government knows that and every honourable member on the Government side of the chamber is trembling about his prospects of retaining his seat at any future election. Those are our backers. We have just heard from a member of this House who has been closely associated with fund-raising and all the chicanery that has gone on behind the scenes in fundraising for the Australian Labor Party. We have just heard from somebody who has been closely connected with the trade union movement. 
I intend to say something about the trade union movement in a moment, but before I do so I want to say that the honourable member's Party has, according to a statutory declaration, I think, or evidence given by someone in a witness box, received $70,000 from  Mr Rupert  Murdoch- I think that he is very sorry now that he paid it, but he paid it; I do not know what it was paid for, but that is something which stands on the record. It ill becomes a member of that Party to stand and say: 'We have.no wealthy backers. We do not take money in secret.' Good heavens! Sometimes the truth surfaces. I wonder how much of what has happened in this respect within the Labor Party still lies below the surface. 
That is not the main thing that I wanted to say. I want to approach this matter in a most serious vein. I agree that the present law needs amending. I and, I think, every other member of this House would agree that the present law is ridiculous. But I believe that the proposal which the Government has now brought forward is a treacherous, double-dealing proposal and that it should be thrown out without any reservations. The Government has put forward a fascist proposal. It has been proposed that only the Australian Labor Party should have adequate resources for political organisation. If the Government gets this Bill through the Parliament it will endeavour to use a position which we never should have allowed to develop in order corruptly to continue its tenure of office and the tenure of office of governments of the same political persuasion. 
The matter has come about in this way: The Australian Labor Party says that it is a trade union party- and so it is in a sense. But what is happening in the trade unions is something that is most vile and improper. People who are politically opposed to the Government are being dragooned into support of. it and being dragooned into giving financial support of millions and millions of dollars to organisers who call themselves union organisers but who are really organisers for the Labor Party. They call themselves union organisers but they do only a little organising for their members. They organise mostly in the interests of the Labor Party. That is going on all the time. It may be said that people may band together and support what they want to support with their contributions. That is fine and good. But it should be remembered that in many callings- indeed in most callings- one cannot work to earn one's living unless one gives subservience to the trade union movement. 
There are many people in the trade union movement who honestly wish to support the Australian Labor Party, but there is a large number of people in the trade union movement who, understandably and rightly, oppose the Australian Labor Party- they may even dislike and hate the Australian Labor Party- and who have to support with their dues a union machine whose efforts day in and day out- not just at election times and not just with a few hundred thousand dollars but with many millions of dollars every year- are primarily directed towards the support of a political party which those trade unionists themselves oppose. That is a fascist principle. The trade union movement has become a fascist movement because it says that a person cannot work and earn a living at his calling unless he is a member of a trade union and if he is a member of a trade union he will be paying his dues- not just the political levies, which are unimportant; they are only on the surface- for a machine which is devoted primarily to opposing what he thinks politically. That is really conscription of labour. That is the essence of fascism- the corrupt state. The individual cannot express himself and he cannot earn his living unless he kowtows to a clique of Labor bosses whose political affiliations are not his. I know that there are many people in the trade union movementperhaps even the majority of them- who honestly wish to support the Labor Party. 
I think that the majority in the trade union movement still wish to do so even at this moment. 
-Let me be as fair and factual as I can. I do know that there are hundreds of thousands- maybe millions- of people in the trade union movement who are opposed to the Labor Party and who have to pay their subscriptions knowing full well that a great deal of their subscriptions is being paid not for industrial purposes and not for the purposes of the union but in order to further the interests of the Aus.tralian Labor Party. The Australian Labor Party calls itself the child of the trade union movement. It boasts that that is what it is. It is to the shame of honourable members on this side of the House that when we were in government we allowed the state of affairs to develop and continue whereby millions of dollars are being taken every year from people and used for political purposes which are exactly opposite to those of some if not many of the subscribers of it. Maybe our constitutional powers were limited. I know that there are difficulties in this respect. 
In point of fact this Bill says that no political party except the Labor Party shall have the financial capacity to organise. The Labor Party is going to live not on its formal organisation but on the trade union organisation whereby money is being extorted for so-called industrial purposes and is being used to maintain a gang of what are virtually Labor officials, Labor organisations. This is corrupt; this is fascist; this is something which we should not allow to continue, and I believe it is to our shame as a Liberal government that we allowed it to develop to the point that it has. People are entitled surely to earn their living without being forced to contribute to the political purposes of a party to which they are opposed. This is the position which has developed in Australia. Now we have the ultimate impertinence in this Bill because it is drawn in such a way that the trade union official who is virtually a political agent of the Labor Party, who is getting millions of dollars as an agent of the Labor Party and who pretends that he is getting this money for industrial purposes- what nonsense, and everybody knows it is nonsense- is going to escape the meshes of the Bill. So the Labor Party will have immense funds continuing at its disposal, funds which will be used in the future as they have been used in the past, to corrupt the electorate. 
Honourable members know the kind of propaganda which goes on in trade unions day in, day out, propaganda such as: 'You must support the Labor Party even if you think it is wrong; we are trade unionists, we must support our Party, the Labor Party'. This is said and reiterated time and time again. This money- these millions of dollars- is available. This is the corruption- the political corruption- that occurs in unions that are using union money to further causes to which many unionists are opposed. This is the real thing that is wrong with Australian politics. 
The British trade unions have brought Great Britain to her knees. In a short generation they have taken her from a world power to a third rate state. They are exporting what is called the British sickness, a terrible and shameful phrase and one that we do not like to hear because it is true. We know that the inflation and the economic ills in Australia, as in Great Britain, stem very largely from the excesses of the trade union movement. We know that the capacity of the country to pay high real wages and to have a high standard of living is being impaired by the go-slow, feather-bedding strikes, the disruptions and the other things the trade union movement is sponsoring. 
The present Government has spent a political generation whistling for the wind. It may well be appalled now with the whirlwind which it has conjured up. We have in this Bill an attempt by the Government to fasten this trade union dictatorship not just around the necks of the trade unionists but around the necks of all the Australian people. The real impact of this Bill is that one party, and one party only, will have financial resources- millions of dollars- much greater than any of its political opponents ever had, because the Labor propaganda machine is fed by money to which its rivals have no access at all and to which they have never had any pretensions. The Labor Party is the wealthy party. It is now saying: 'Nobody in the Australian community is to have any resources to organise against the dictatorship of the trade union movement'. This is what tins Bill means. This is really corruption in excelsus. This is the attempt to make this kind of corruption permanent for the Australian people. 
I conclude by saying, as I said at the beginning of my speech, that I believe that the present law requires drastic amendment, but it does not require the kind of amendment which is put forward in this Bill. The Government- the sponsor of this Bill- has used the need for amendment as a means of launching a treacherous attack on the Australian people. I remind the House of what happened in June 1972 when the present Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  then the Leader of the Opposition, went crawling to a communist union in order to get funds. He got a cheque for $25,000 or something like that. But that was merely peanuts. That was not really what he wanted. What he wanted was the backing of that communist trade union machine for the continuing propaganda of the Labor Party, and the use of millions of dollars, much of them extorted from people who were opposed to the Labor Party. He wanted that machine behind him. In order to get that machine behind him he gave certain pledges which are set down in the union minutes which have already been read into  Hansard  and which I will not repeat. Those pledges were disgraceful; they were cowardly; they were treacherous. But his Government had endeavoured to implement the pledges which he then gave to the communists. 
It is not just a case of payments which are made at election time. Do not let us run away with the idea that the Australian public is entirely unsophisticated and that it votes only on the election campaign. The Australian electorate is wiser than that. It forms opinions outside the election campaign and it votes on them. But no electorate, however wise and however sophisticated, can stand up against the continuous propaganda, the Hitler tactic of the big lie all the time repeated. Just as the German people fell for the Nazis and the Hitler lie- the big repeated he- so even the Australian electorate will fall if it gets propaganda only from one side, if it has this incubus always of the trade unions which are able to get money from their opponents and from people who are unionists, who are opposed to the Labor Party but who are not allowed to work at their trade unless they join the union and pay its dues. The unions use that money ostensibly for industrial purposes, but actually, as all honourable members know- every honourable member on the other side of the House knows this very well- every year those millions of dollars are being used all the time in a continuous campaign of the big he to distort and to corrupt the views of the Australian people. This practice has to be stopped. But the Government does not propose to stop it; the Government proposes to do just the opposite. The Government proposes in this Bill, which I hope will be thrown out because it deserves to be thrown out, to still every political voice which would be opposed to the views which it puts forward and which it had the trade union megaphone to din continuously into the ears of the Australian people. 
During the recess I took the opportunity of visiting central Australia and northern Australia. I did this for 2 reasons. I wanted to see something of the resources and nature of the place and I wanted to get a further insight into what is happening to the Aboriginal population. On that second point I shall say nothing at this moment although I hope I shall have an opportunity of saying something later. 
I want now to say something about the nature of the place and the possibilities that lie inherent in it. As honourable members, would agree, I think, a great part of Australia's economic future is bound up with its mineral industry, its mineral products and its mineral exports. I think that this is something which needs to be developed as quickly as possible and as thoroughly as possible. I want to draw to the attention of the House the possibilities that he inherent in the centre of Australia and some of the things which we should be doing and putting in hand in regard to them. I hope I shall be constructive in this regard. A large part of the centre of Australia- it may amount even to a quarter of the continent- is covered by a fairly thin and recent layer of sand. Sometimes the rocks stick up from this layer but over many hundreds of miles there is no indication of what lies under the surface. Yet that surface is covered by only a few feet of sand. Some of that surface contains potentially valuable mineral areas. I refer particularly to the old rocks, the pre-Cambrian, the protozoic and even perhaps the archaeozoic rocks which underlie the surface. We do not know what they are. We do not know in detail what they are like. We do know something about their age. From the rocks which stick up from the surface from time to time we can get some vague idea of what lies under that shallow sand surface. It would help us if we knew more, if we knew the rocks and if we knew the dip of the rocks. Sometimes, of course, the valuable ores will stand out because they are harder than the folded rocks which surround them. A good example of this would be at Broken Hill or even, indeed, at Mt Isa. In other cases the valuable rocks are not hard. They are soft shales which will not stand out. 
I believe that this is the time when we should be doing something about the delineation of these areas. May I say, with satisfaction, that we found the Bureau of Mineral Resources, Geology and Geophysics actively working in this area. We found its people trying to identify the rock outcrops. I have a great deal of time and admiration for the work which is being done by the Bureau of Mineral Resources. I am not trying to criticise it. I am trying to say that more should be given to that body and that we should be going on with it in a faster way. 
I believe the first thing to do is a certain amount of drilling. As honourable members will know, a large number of drills are idle at present in Australia. They fall, I suppose, into 4 classes. The shallow drill was used for seismic work, for putting down shot holes and the like. It is a truck mounted drill which goes only to shallow depths and is very light. Second is the diamond drill which is used for exploring ore bodies. Third is the deep stratigraphic drill which is used for oil drilling. It can put down a really deep hole on land. Fourth is, or used to be at any rate, the drill which is capable of operating off-shore. In the first 3 categories we have idle resources and we used to have idle skilled teams. We have not got them now because they have been dissipated by reason of the under-use of our facilities. 
I would like to see a drilling program really put in hand not just on particular targets but in order to ascertain the nature of the sedimentary basins and the old rocks which are not sedimentary or old folded rocks but which are in very old sedimentary areas in Australia. In that way we can learn something about our mineral potential. This is the time to do it because we do have idle machinery. The sooner we start building up our skilled teams again, the better. I would think, for example, that in these areas covered by this shallow sand film we should be using our shot hole drills which were used in the seismic program in determining the depth of the sand and roughly what is underneath. By use of coreing one can find out and by use of dip meters one can find out the lie of the strata and be able to ascertain what is happening. In selective areas we should be putting down our diamond drills and finding out more. In order to find the main structure of the continent we should be using our deep drills onshore to find out the nature of the underlying basins to great depths. 
I want, in the next few months, to try to get a program of this kind accepted. I shall be trying in the next few months to find out what can be done and what resources can be devoted to it. Again I want to commend what the Bureau of Mineral Resources is doing. I do not want to criticise the Bureau. I want to say that it should be getting further resources and that the program of drilling, particularly in the centre of Australia, should be very much stepped up. This will help- I say this incidentally- the Aboriginal communities. One of the things which will be discovered is the extent of our water resources and underground water. In this area there is plenty of rough feed. I know this is a particularly good season but I think that even in normal seasons there would be rough feed. There is virtually no naked animal life because there is no surface water. If we can find out from this drilling where water can be found and easily brought to the surface we may be able to help the life of some of these Aboriginal communities. I put this as a side issue. 
The first point I make is that at this time we should be using our unused drilling resources and, once more, building up our skilled drilling teams in the 3 categories: The shot hole drill, which will go down and pierce, for example, a thin sand film; the diamond drill which will tell us more in detail; and the deep stratigraphic drill which will determine the nature of our main basins. There is much we do not know. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MartinOrder! The honourable member's time has expired. 

-I have never seen government speakers less comfortable than they have been in this debate because they have not really wanted to say the truth. The truth is that their left wing demands from them and they do not all agree with this that they should renounce the United States alliance and go into the communist orbit. This is what the debate is all about, as indeed it was in 1963 when it came on with the faceless men dictating to the then Opposition. Among the contradictions in what government supporters have said I particularly noted one statement by the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant).  He said that no government has a right to bind the future of Australia for so long ahead. He said it should be bound for not longer than 3 years. That came very well, did it not, from a Minister in the Government which only a couple of months ago was wanting to enter into long term loans for $4,000m to be repaid in 20 years, I think it was, for $20,000m which would have bound the whole economic future of Australia? It comes well from a government to say 'You cannot enter into long term agreements'. This is just a small instance of the insincerity of the Government of the contradictions which underlie its approach to this whole matter. 
I do not want to talk about this in terms of party politics because more important things are in front of us. We are not just talking about the exercise of Australian sovereignty. We are really talking about the continued existence of the Australian nation because, use what comfortable words you like, the existence of the Australian nation is not as secure for the future as it has been in the past. Our defences in a sense are gone. The United States has decided to withdraw from the Asian area. The British fleet is no longer here and the British power can no longer protect us. Our only real defence at present lies in the existence of the United States fleet in the Indian and Pacific Oceans and without that we are virtually defenceless. 
We heard people tonight talk nonsense about Australia being able to be independent and being able to defend herself. This is nonsense and the tragedy is that it is being uttered by supporters of a government which has no intention of allowing Australia to regain any defence capability, a government which brought in' a Budget only a couple of nights ago which provides for a diminution in the manpower of the Australian forces, a government which knows that by ourselves we have no adequate capacity to determine the continued existence of the Australian nation. Yet this is a government which, embarrassed by its pro-communist left wing, is out to break what ties we have with the United States and to provoke the United States, insofar as it lies within its power, into abandoning the defence of Australia and the reality of the ANZUS Pact. The ANZUS Pact is not a very definite pact. Its continuation depends upon the Congress of the United States exercising its constitutional prerogative from time to time. The ANZUS Pact is only valid and only means anything insofar as the goodwill of the United States allows it to be valid or to mean anything. Under these circumstances, what do we think of a government which is trying to imperil the future of Australia by crawling to the left wing and the communists who control its own left wing in the unions? 
We have heard the words 'treachery' and treason' used tonight by people speaking from the centre table. I throw those words back. There is treachery; there is treason. Not all members of the Government are concerned in this, but some members of the Government who crawl to the left wing and who do so knowingly are guilty of that kind of treachery and treason. Do not let us think that we in Australia are a small prize. We are a small nation, sure. We do not have much capacity to defend ourselves, but as it happens we are a nation which has immense riches within its borders, a nation whose minerals and food may well be important to the economy of Asia. To believe that we will remain without defences or friends as a sovereign nation is to delude ourselves entirely. But this apparently is the doctrine of the left wing of the Government. 
Let us look at this base at North West Cape. It was established as part of a global strategy which so far has contained communist aggression. At least it has been contained in the major theatres of the world, even though it may have inched towards us in this theatre. If it had not been for this nuclear capacity being in the hands of the free world, I have no doubt that communist aggression would have gone much further and got much worse. So this is the point: The base at North West Cape was established in 1 963 as one of the pins in the whole of global strategy. It was a necessary pin in global strategy. I do not think it will be a necessary pin for very much longer because, as it happens, the development of new technologies, the development of satellites and what goes with them, will shortly be rendering the base out of date. That has not happened as yet but it will be happening within a few years' time, and the vital nature of that base to global strategy will shortly go. But during this time should we be insulting our allies? Should we be saying to the United States of America, as this Government is saying: 'We would like to get you out. We may keep you just because there is an agreement, but we do not like the agreement. We do not like you. We do not want you '. 
That is the attitude of the Government today. That is what we are up against. It is something which strikes a blow at the whole security of Australia. Well, it does not matter so much now because this Government has not got long to run. The damage that it is doing to the security of Australia will be remedied shortly by a change of government, and the United States and our other allies in the free world will know that once again Australia will have a government which represents the view of the overwhelming majority of the Australian people on this issue, which will not twist and determine Australia's foreign policy in the interests of the communist powers to the control of the left wing, that minority pro-communist control, which apparently is still so potent over the thinking of the Government when it comes to foreign poliCY 
asked the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
1 ) Who selects the guests of honour for ABC broadcasts on Sunday nights. 
On what principle is the selection made. 
Are the scripts seen or approved by any members or officers of the Commission before broadcast; if so, by whom. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Defence. I refer to the symposium on defence which is to be held at the University of Sydney next Saturday, 30 August, and which will be addressed by some of the most distinguished and knowledgeable retired officers of the Australian defence Services. I ask: What arrangements have been made for serving officers to attend this vital meeting as observers? Will these serving officers be permitted to participate in the discussions? If so, will they be confined to giving the official view or will they be permitted to put forward their own real views? Are serving officers entitled to participate in these discussions without open or covert penalty? Finally, will the Minister give a categorical denial to rumours that are current to the effect that the Government propaganda machine has been instructed to devote its resources to seeing that this conference is belittled and brushed aside? 
There are certain things about this Bill which puzzle me and I do not put them forward as something which is entirely novel or which has arisen only under this Government. I want to look first at section 8 1 of the Constitution which, of course, no Bill can abrogate. It reads: 
All revenues or moneys raised or received by the Executive Government of the Commonwealth shall form one Consolidated Revenue Fund, to be appropriated for the purposes of the Commonwealth in the manner and subject to the charges and liabilities imposed by this Constitution. 
I think this is quite clear and it cannot be affected by anything that is done by an Act of this Parliament. Any moneys raised, whether by tax or by loan, must be paid into the Consolidated Revenue Fund in terms of section 81 of the Constitution. I am interested to know how in the past and in the present Treasurers have formally complied with this section and what is the exact mechanism that has been used. If monies are raised they must be paid into the Consolidated Revenue Fund whether they are raised by taxation or by loan and they can, of course, be appropriated out of that Fund to a trust fund or to a subsidiary loan fund or to some head of expenditure. The matter becomes important because of the rather unusual nature of the Bill before us. It is an open-ended borrowing and it is obvious that it is being done in order to circumvent the Loan Council. Commonwealth powers of borrowing are limited in terms of the Financial Agreement which is incorporated in the Constitution. The Commonwealth can borrow without the Loan Council's sanction for temporary purposesthat is an expression we have heard recently in this Parliament- or it can borrow for defence purposes. What is happening under this Bill is that the Government is really intending to borrow for the deficit by the simple device of charging all of the defence expenditure of whatever character not against the Consolidated Revenue Fund but against the Loan Fund. That is the effect of clauses 3 and 4 of the Bill. 
I am sorry; where is this two-thirds mentioned? 
Where is the two-thirds mentioned in the Bill? I am talking about the effect of the Bill. 
-I accept what the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Mr Crean)  has said about this practice in regard to section 8 1 of the Constitution not being novel in the hands of this Government, but I am still worried. I think that this Government and previous governments may be legally at fault in what has been done and I believe that the matter needs to be looked at further. There is just one other point I wish to raise. I do not think that the Minister understood what I was saying. I will repeat it because it is at variance with something that he said. It is true that the limit on the defence expenditure which can be charged to Loan Fund is the deficiency in the Consolidated Revenue Fund as a whole. But since it may well be that this year the deficiency in the Consolidated Revenue Fund will exceed the figure of, I think it was, $ 1,700m the Minister cited as the defence expenditure, there is in point of practical fact no limitation. Contrary to what the Minister said, there will be in the Government's hands, if we pass this Bill, the capacity to charge the whole of defence expenditure against the Loan Fund. That, I am afraid, is the fact. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendments; report adopted. 
-In fairness let me say that there are some good points in this Budget. I refer particularly to the rebate system of income tax and the fact that it has given some relief to families, particularly those in the lower income group. Having said that, I believe I can leave it to supporters of the Government to praise the Budget. I should like to come back to a little bit of harsh reality. 
This Budget is inadequate to meet the problems of inflation and recession which now stand in front of us and which can be combined in a kind of slumpflation which has succeeded stagflation. We are not just seeing increasing prices and a stagnant economy; we are seeing increasing prices and an economy whose activity is receding. I believe that this recession in employment and productivity is much greater than the Government has realised and to overcome it we need far more drastic measures than the Government is now prepared to undertake. There will be no time for me to go into figures in detail. I am concerned not so much with the cutting back of public expenditure as with an increase in assistance to private enterprise because such assistance is necessary to give the Australian economy the forward drive which has characterised our past history. 
I want to be positive and to make some recommendations which perhaps will fall on deaf ears in the Government. Nevertheless I believe they are the right things to be said at this moment. First we need to reduce taxation and charges and to do so in a way which will combine an attack on inflation and costs with the encouragement of enterprise and the concurrent increase in employment. As it happens the first thing we should be looking at is something which lies not exclusively but mainly in the domain of the States and that is a plan for a reduction of those charges which bear most heavily upon costs and add most to the problem of inflation. Unhappily I have to say that the financial policy of this Government is forcing the States into taking action which is inevitable for them because of the straitjacket in which they are placed by the Federal Government but action which is, in its ultimate effect, inflationary. 
We should be reducing, not increasing, the indirect charges which bear upon costs. Let me instance the five major ones. They are freights and fares on public transport, electricity costs and water supply charges, land tax and rates, payroll tax- so far all in the State or local government sphere- and, finally, postal charges and telephone charges which lie in the sphere of this Federal Government. 
I believe we should have an attack on all these charges as part of a plan to reduce costs, to reduce inflation and to get the economy going again. I am sorry that the Government has not seen fit to have any coherent or proper plan in this direction. I know that this has to be done in co-operation with the States because as it happens the main indirect charges which bear upon industry costs and contribute to inflation and price rises lie in the hands of the States. If the Government looks at the Budget which the States are now preparing it will see that in nearly all of these vital areas the costs are not being reduced but are rising. It is impossible for these tilings to happen without increasing inflation. This Federal Government has done its share towards that by permitting the inordinate increases in postal and telephone charges which are now upon us. 
Let me come next to income tax, which is the main component in the Government's Budget and which I think honourable members would agree is its most important feature. I have already said that although I think that there are some aspects of the way in which the rebate system has been applied which are good, there are some aspects also which are bad. What I want to say first is that income tax rates themselves are an important component in the inflationary process because they do add to the pressure for wage rises. These pressures are perhaps the most important part of the whole inflationary process. So when we talk about income tax we are also talking about a tax which in a sense is a cause of inflation. 
The Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  has told us that he has reduced income tax. What he means apparently is that he has failed to allow it to increase by reason of automatic inflation. But he has not reduced it; he has in point of fact increased it. Let me give the House some figures. I have the permission of the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley),  who is at the table, to seek leave to have them incorporated in  Hansard,  and I shall take this course later. The figures give tax as a percentage of incomes and salaries. I have taken them from the official Budget figures. The papers tabled with the Budget give us the figures for wages and salaries for each year until 1974-75. They give us the Treasurer's estimate of what the figures will be in 1 975-76, the current year. The Treasurer has based his figures on a 2 per cent increase in employment and a 22 per cent increase in wages and salary rates. These are the figures which he gave us in his Budget speech and, as I have said, I have taken them from the official document. In 1972-73 net payasyouearn tax took 14.1 per cent of wages and salaries. In 1973-74 it rose to 15.4 per cent. In 1974-75 it rose to 17.3 per cent. This year, on the Treasurer's own official estimates, it will rise to 19.8 percent. 
Does the full enormity of these figures sink into the consciousness of the Government? The Treasurer boasts that he has reduced personal income tax. Actually there is the most savage increase in net take by income tax as a percentage of wages and salaries that has ever occurred, outside the war emergency, in the history of Australia. It has risen from 17.3 per cent last year- and that by itself was monstrous- to 19.8 per cent on the Treasurer's own official figures. I think that the Government had better take another look at this aspect before it starts talking about reductions in income tax. 
It is important that we should really reduce income tax. Particularly it is important that we should get tax indexation of the reduced income tax because whatever we do will not be fair and reasonable if we allow inflation to raise rates and take people into higher income tax brackets when the real value of their earnings remains stable. 
I regret that we on this side are not pressing, as I believe we should press, not for the phasing in of indexation but for indexation here and now and in total because anything less is unfair to the taxpayer, anything less means that the Treasury intends to exploit inflation and to live on inflation. This should not be. In my view we should immediately and without any hesitation or qualification see that when the new income tax rates are set they are indexed for the future in accordance with any change in the price level so that as prices rise- and I am afraid that whatever is done they are still going to rise for some timewages and salary earners will be paying only the same rate of tax on the same real wage or salary. Anything less than that is unjust and unfair and I do not see why we should in any way compromise with it. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, do I have your permission to incorporate in  Hansard  the table which I mentioned earlier? It sets out the figures on which I have based my argument. 
Thank you,  Mr Speaker.  Could I have your permission to thank the Minister for answering today a question which he refused to answer yesterday - 
I regret some of the remarks made a few moments ago by the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Kerin)  regarding Fretilin. I think it is true that the majority of the supporters of Fretilin in Timor would not be communist because the people of Timor- I have been there; I admit some time ago- have a very small political interest, and I do not think that one can say this of them one way or the other. But I think it is true and it is notorious that Fretilin has been infiltrated at top level by certain communist influences. 
-This is the point. I think it is true that certain elements of the Australian Labor Party- some of the elements which are pro-communist- have been in conference with Fetilin leaders quite recently. I think that perhaps it is no use asking Security to have a look at this because, of course, Security is now the creature of the Government which is out to cover up and help the communists. But I think that if Security were given a free and honest hand in this matter we should be having a look at some of the contacts between Fretilin leaders and some of the left wing of the supporters of the Australian Labor Party. But we will not go into that at the moment. 
I believe that it is extremely important and vital for Australia that defence matters should be taken on a bipartisan approach. There are dangers to Australia. We are now in a critical time with the British power gone, with the American power wavering and isolationist and with situations emerging to our north in Timor and in Papua New Guinea which might easily bring a ring of fire round the north of the Australian continent before many months are out. It is necessary that we have better defences and have them quickly. 
I have been very upset by what has happened in this House in the last 2 days in that regard. You will remember,  Sir, that  yesterday I addressed a question regarding a defence symposium to the Minister for Defence  (Mr Morrison).  I am sorry that he is not in the House; I told him earlier this evening that I proposed to speak on a matter that concerned him. The Minister did not answer the question I asked him, but he did say that if he received an invitation to the conference he would be very happy to attend it. An invitation was sent to him some time ago. It may not have come to his attention. He may not have known about it. But I have evidence that he discussed the conference some time ago with one of the participants in the conference and that he knew perfectly well that it was on. I know that immediately after he made those remarks in the House an invitation was extended to him. He said yesterday that he would be happy to attend if an invitation were extended to him. An invitation was extended and I understand that he will not be attending. 
I think it is regrettable that a Minister should make commitments in the House in that fashion and apparently have no intention of carrying them out. I am afraid that this is too much the custom now among Ministers, whose word cannot be relied upon. You will recall,  Sir, that  I asked him:  . . . will the Minister give a categorical denial to rumours that are current to the effect that the Government propaganda machine has been instructed to devote its resources to seeing that this conference is belittled and brushed aside? 
They were, as I have said, rumours. I was hoping that the Minister would deny them. He did not deny them. He did not answer my question. But today in the House he virtually confirmed the truth of them by implication because in answer to what I imagine was a prearranged question from his side he saw fit to make a propaganda attack on that conference and to endeavour to belittle it. It is fairly certain, although I suppose that it is only circumstantial evidence, that the rumours that I heard earlier- that the Government propaganda machine had been instructed to do this- were in fact correct because the Minister's own behaviour in this House this morning confirms that. He made a gratuitous attack upon two of the distinguished participants in that conference. But he did more than that. Referring to the people who were taking part in that conference, I think he used the word 'Blimps'. 
-That is enough from the bleater from Blaxland. The Blaxland bleater might well remain silent. 
-Thank you,  Mr Speaker.  The bleater from Blaxland might well hold his tongue. 
-Sir, I am hoping that your authority will be exercised even over the honourable member for Blaxland. The Minister went out of his way to denigrate the retired officers, some of whom are only very recently retired, by calling them blimps. The Minister deliberately tried to denigrate and belittle a conference which was meant to be a  bona fide  conference directed towards bringing the need for defence more into the consciousness of the Aus.tralian people. If that is not something which commends itself to the Government, so much the worse for the Government. 
Why did the Minister go out of his way deliberately to do this today? Why did he not make good his statement made in the House the previous day to the effect that if an invitation were extended to him he would be happy to attend? I am afraid that I have to say that this is not the way in which the Government can achieve a bi-partisan approach to these matters of defence. It Will not be the Government for long. It is now only a caretaker government repudiated by the people. It Will not be long before there is another government in power. I am sure that when we are in power we wm be trying to achieve with what will then be the Opposition a genuine bi-partisan policy on what is probably, unhappily the most vital problem in front of the Australian people. 
-I give notice that, at the next sitting, I shall move: 
That this House views with disapproval the proposal for changes in the law regarding incest, homosexual behaviour and abortion on demand, which the Attorney-General has caused to be placed before the Legislative Assembly of the Australian Capital Territory in the form of a draft ordinance. 
-On this matter the Government is acting in a clear but - 
Motion (by  Mr Daly  ) agreed to: 
That business of the day be called on. 
I am alittle puzzled at the way in which the rates in the Schedule are described, particularly the difference between beer and spirits. The duty on beer is so much per litre but the duty on spirits is so much per litre of alcohol. When one does the calculations it would appear that the duty on alcohol in beer is about four or five times as great as the duty on alcohol in spirits. Why is there this discrimination? 
In this Budget the excise on beer has gone up by 56 per cent whereas the excise on spirits has gone up by only 14 per cent. Is the Government directly attacking the working man's drink or is this one of the things which the Government has simply forgotten and the Government has not done its sums? It does not realise that it is putting a much heavier proportion of duty on beer than on spirits. This is a matter of some importance because it is related to the great problem of inflation in the economy. 
Motion ( by  Mr Nicholls)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
Question put: 

 -Mr Speaker - 
Motion ( by  Mr Nicholls)  put: 
I make just one short comment on the petroleum duties'. 
The Minister was no fool, 
He'd learned from the ALP school. 
So he knew what to do 
When the ACTU 
Fiddled bids for the oil in the Pool. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
The points made by the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  are valid and they well warrant the consideration of the Committee and the Government. I stress first the technical point that he made, that it is sometimes very difficult to distinguish between the various coals. There is a tremendous gap between the levy of $2 a tonne and $6 a tonne which is quite arbitrary. It would be far better, if the Government really wanted to do something in this field, for it to have done it not in this clumsy way but in one of the better ways which were open to it. If the Government really felt- I do not entirely agree with this feeling- that it had to slug the exporters, why did it not put the excise on the value of the exported coal at such and such a rate? That would have met the technical points which were so well put and so cogently raised by the honourable member for Lilley. It would have been possible to have done this in a way which did not involve the horrid arbitrariness of the present very clumsy device which the Government is putting forward. 
I do not at this moment address myself to the question as to whether or not there should be a levy. I address myself to the technical question as to how, if there is a levy, it should be put on. I am afraid that I must come to the conclusion that the method of applying the levy which the Government has chosen is clumsy and bad and will result in all sorts of economic dislocations and inequities. 
I again say that the Minister for Manufacturing Industry has entirely misunderstood the point at issue. The point is not whether the determination is accurate. Even if the determination is accurately made, the point is that the results will be arbitrary and quite out of accordance with economic criteria. 
-This is the point: The Minister just has not understood the matter at all. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment, report adopted. 
-As I listened to the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Sherry)  speaking in this debate I could not help remembering that in private life previously he had been a broadcaster. He has the facility for uttering platitudes in an impressive voice. It is nice to remember this because he will have something to go back to when he loses his seat at the next election. 
-Well, I am quite sure that he is a good broadcaster. Let me turn to the main point of the Bill, which the Opposition supports but which I am afraid is based on bureaucratic bungling of the worst character. I want to draw 2 matters to the attention of the House. The first is that there is as yet no temporary bridge across the Derwent River. The second is that socialism at work here shows the same kind of inefficiency with committee after committee that it is showing in the reconstruction- or rather the non-reconstruction- of Darwin. The Government runs true to form. It is par for the course. 
Just as in Darwin there are committees on committees on committees doing nothing effective, here we have exactly the same thing. The people of Tasmania are suffering from socialism. In Darwin all the responsibility lies on the Labor Government here in Canberra. In Hobart the responsibility lies on the Labor Government here and the Labor Government in Tasmania. They are both guilty of the most incredible bungling, delay and waste of money and resources. 

 Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 

We are talking about the Bill for the restoration of the Tasman Bridge in Hobart. Before the suspension of the sitting for dinner I was drawing attention to the bungling, the extravagance and the procrastination which have characterised efforts to do something after the disaster of last January. The guilt of this must be shared by the Labor Government in this House and the Labor Government in Hobart, because they have been responsible for these events. An extraordinary amount of money is now involved. This Bill is an open-ended Bill. It gives complete protection for any kind of extravagance and inefficiency. It removes any financial authority which this House might have over coming events. 
None of us would want to be niggardly or to do anything which would delay the work, but surely there have been enough delays, and inordinate delays. The disaster occurred in the first week of January, and today the people of Hobart are still without even a temporary crossing of the Derwent. This is incredible, but it is true. If there had been any efficiency we would have had a temporary crossing completed in a few weeks, or at most, a couple of months after the disaster. I think the Army could have done it If the Army could not have done it, that throws a lurid light on the state or our whole defence forces. I believe that, given a free hand, the Army could have done it. It has Bailey bridges. Admittedly Bailey bridges were taken to Hobart, and I am afraid that they constitute most of the stock of Bailey bridges held by the whole of the Australian Army. They were taken to Hobart in time, but they are still unerected 
The Army in our day was efficient and it could have coped with a disaster of this character. Those honourable members on the Opposition side who know something about it- I know the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  has always been an enemy of the Army- would know that the Army was in our day a great deal more efficient. Honourable members on the Government side, if they have any decency, will recall that when they were the Opposition they opposed so much of our military expenditure and demanded from their place in the Parliament that it should be cut down. Let us have a little bit of common sense and decency in regard to this. 
I do not want to digress too much. What I say is that it is almost incredible that now in September we do not have a temporary bridge over the Derwent to meet a situation brought about by a disaster which occurred at the beginning of January. Why has this not been possible? Surely there is inefficiency somewhere. The facts cry out. Any efficient government would have had this quite small temporary work done months ago. Meanwhile the citizens of Hobart have to undergo the losses and inconveniences which have been so well put before this House earlier tonight by the honourable member for Bass  (Mr Newman)  and which amount to many millions of dollars of loss. This stands as a monument to the inefficiency of socialism. 
There is a terrible parallel between what is happening in Hobart and what is happening in Darwin, because in both cases there has been an excess of bureaucracy, planning and socialist bungling. Nothing gets done. There are virtually no houses in Darwin now. 

 Mr WENTWORTH Mr Speaker, all I am trying to say is that the reason why there has been such delay and why there is no temporary bridge over the Derwent still is the same kind of reason which has created the fact that no houses have been built in Darwin so long after the disaster that occurred there. What is happening in Hobart is that there have been committees after committee, jobs for the boys, jobs for the Government's favourites and collusion in inefficiency between the Labor Government in Hobart and the Labor Government in Canberra. 
There is no need for me to say much more about this, because the facts cry out for themselves. Nothing has been done. Still in September there is no temporary bridge over the Derwent. Even in the times of the Boer War any efficient army would have been able to bridge a comparatively small estuary over a couple of months. We are talking about Hobart, where all the civil resources are available. I just ask the Government what kind of thing would happen if we were involved in hostilities. What kind of thing would happen if the civil resources were not available? The Government has left Australia defenceless, and the fact that it has been unable to bridge the Derwent with a temporary structure 9 months after the disaster is proof of what I say. 
I want to make just one other point in regard to the delays. Honourable members on the other side of the House have admitted that the delays were due partly to industrial trouble and strikes. This, I am afraid, is the fact. They have said: 'It was not the fault of the leaders of the unions. The leaders wanted the men to go back, and the rank and file would not'. I do not want to go into the details of what occurred. I simply follow on from what members of the Government Party have said in this debate. The leaders wanted the men to go back. Therefore they knew that the cause of the strike was unjust. What did the Government in Canberra or the Labor Government in Hobart do? They did nothing. They did not take any firm measures. They did not even express a consistent disapproval at what the men were doing. They did not harangue them and say: 'You are holding the citizens of Hobart to ransom. You are the people guilty of this'. Not for the one moment. Because they are frightened of some of the trade union elements they stay silent. 

 - Mr Speaker, I would have thought that what I was saying was related to the Bill. The Bill deals with the bridging of the Derwent. I am saying that the Derwent should have had a temporary bridge over it- this is dealt with in the Bill- long, long ago, and I am giving some of the reasons why it has not yet got a temporary bridge over it and why the citizens of Hobart are still - 
I am just reminding you,  Mr Speaker,  of the clauses of the Bill which give to the Commission certain functions and those functions are concerned with the bridging of the Derwent. The Commission has been exercising those functions. It has been spending money which is provided for in terms of this Bill and it is surely relevant for me to point out that the Commission, which has received these open ended funds, has behaved inefficiently in the past and that money has been wasted. This is of the nature of the Bill. I need not press the point. I think the House will thoroughly understand that these delays are reprehensible. There has been procrastination and delay and money has been wasted. It is socialist extravagance and what has happened in Hobart is being parallelled by what is happening in Darwin. 
I hope that what I am going to say will commend itself to both sides of the chamber. I refer to something in respect of which I think not only, this Government is at fault but also previous Liberal governments equally were at fault, namely, the numbers of questions on notice which remain unanswered. I think this is something which is quite scandalous. I am not saying that the fault is with this Government alone. As I have said, this is something which happened in times of Liberal governments also. 
Looking at the current Notice Paper I see that a question from 1 1 July 1974 is unanswered. In this question the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  asked the Treasurer: 
Will he provide details of losses incurred by the Reserves Bank from the provision of forward exchange cover during 1973. 
If this question is inadmissible or the Minister does not want to answer it, let him say so. If he does want to answer it, let him answer it. There are pages and pages of the notice paper containing some hundreds of unanswered questions. This should not be. I suggest that we should find a mechanism whereby this kind of thing could be avoided. 
Progress reported. 

 -Mr Speaker, my question is directed to you. You will be aware that the Prime Minister has been accustomed to use his official position to injure those who cross his political path by publicly describing them as 'second raters', 'disgraces to their profession', 'fanatics', paranoiacs' and 'bible banging bastards'. I ask whether such expressions may be used in this House by one member speaking to another, or would such language be deemed unparliamentary? If, as I hope, it is unparliamentary to use such terms, is it at least permissible to describe the Prime Minister in terms which  Mr Speaker  has permitted him to use in this House in reference to other members, namely, 'a disgrace to this Parliament'? 
Yesterday I spoke briefly on this proposed expenditure and said that I hoped that my remarks would be constructive and on a nonparty basis. This morning the Minister for the Media  (Dr Cass)  said something which I thought was very relevant and right. He said that the operations of democracy depended upon information being freely available. The operations of this Parliament depend on information being freely available to members and one of the ways by which honourable members can get information, perhaps the chief way, is by asking questions. As you know,  Mr Chairman,  the time for questions each day is limited and, therefore, honourable members ask questions on notice. Unhappily, under this Government and under the previous Government, questions on notice have been left unanswered for far too long. I instanced last night questions which were asked in July 1974 and which still remain unanswered on the notice paper. This is not good enough. I would suggest that some mechanism be found to improve this position. I should like to make a positive suggestion in this regard. I believe that questions should be answered promptly and that when they are not answered promptly some attention should be drawn to this fan by the  Speaker  in the House. There has to be some limitation of course. 
If a question has been on the notice paper for say two or three weeks, or perhaps five or six sitting days, and it remains unanswered, then the  Speaker  should on his own initiative address the question to the Minister concerned and ask the Minister whether he proposes to answer the question. It is always in the prerogative of a Minister to refuse to answer a question, but if he does not want to answer it the fact that he refuses to do so should be made known to the House. I suggest that perhaps at a regular time, say on Thursdays after questions on notice, the  Speaker  should take the first 10 questions which remain unanswered and which have been on the notice paper for a given time- questions on notice require a certain time for them to be answeredand should address those questions to the relevant Ministers and ask them whether or not they propose to answer those questions. Some drastic move of this character has to be taken to avoid the situation which, as I have said, occurs under this Government and occurred under preceding governments whereby questions stand on the notice paper for months or years and no answer is given to them. 
I realise that the present time is such that questions without notice can be allotted only a certain time each day. I regret, as do many honourable members, that answers to questions sometimes become so lengthy that the time is taken up by matters which would better be dealt with by means of a statement. But if a question is put on notice because there is no time for it to be dealt with by questions without notice, and if that question is unanswered, there should be some kind of public penalty on the Minister concerned. It may be that the question is such that he does not want to answer it. That is fair enough. Let him say so. If he has good reasons for not answering the question, the reasons will be weighed by the House. But let not any Minister shelter behind leaving a question on notice unanswered month after month. The situation is made more serious by the fact that a question on notice can preclude the asking of a question without notice. It is possible for the House to be denied information on a very relevant and current matter by the simple device of having a question put on notice and leaving it unanswered. 
I do not regard this as a Party matter at all. I have said that I think both Parties have been guilty in this respect. It may well be that the present Government is worse than its predecessor, but that is a matter which I think is irrelevant and is not one which I should like to raise. I do suggest that some solution should be found and that we should really hold up to the censure almost of the House a Minister who refuses month after month to answer a question put on notice. As I have said, this is not a Party matter. It would apply to both Parties when they were in government. I am one of those people who hold that it will not be long before there is a different Party in government. What I am saying now is that if some kind of penalty were put on Ministers who did not answer questions, this would probably operate more against my Party over the long term than against the present Government Party. I am putting this proposal forward on a completely non-Party basis. I ask the  Speaker  perhaps to put this kind of thing or some variant of it to the Standing Orders Committee or have it brought forward in the House. The present position is intolerable. I endorse the words spoken this morning by the Minister for the Media who said that the functioning of democracy depended on the free availability of information, and the functioning of this House depends upon members having proper information and access to the information that the Government has in its possession. 
This afternoon I received a letter dated 4 September 1975 from Oenpelli, an Aboriginal settlement about 120 miles east of  Darwin  I understand that copies of this letter have been sent to other people both in this House and outside it. The letter is signed by T. C. Cooke. It bears the further notation: 'Read and agreed to, on behalf of the Oenpelli Council' and is signed by S.  Maralngurra  the  chairman  of the Oenpelli Council, which is of course an Aboriginal council. I will read some extracts from this letter and later I will ask for leave of the Committee to have the full text of the letter incorporated in Hansard. 
The letter describes the troubles that are occurring at Oenpelli by reason of the existence of a liquor licence in the adjoining border store and the abuses that have followed from it. This is not a new matter. I remember that, even when I was Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, some abuses were occurring, but not perhaps on this scale. I would have hoped even then that the border store would have been closed as a liquor store. This did not occur. I am not trying to put the blame for this matter on this Government but I wish to point out that, by reason of the new flood of money which has come to the Aboriginal communities in the Northern Territory, the situation there is getting absolutely out of hand. In point of fact, we are debauching the Aboriginal community, and the members of the Aboriginal community themselves know it. They ask us to do something about it. 
This letter to which I have referred and from which I will read parts is written on behalf of the Aboriginal community at Oenpelli. These are not my words; they are the words of the Aboriginals. The letter reads: 
I would like to draw your attention to a serious situation, and one that is going to get worse, at Oenpelli in regard to drunkenness. You will no doubt be aware of the past history, so I will only mention recent events. 
With the drying up of the road since last June there has been a growing problem with alcoholic drink. For almost a week after each pay day (Wednesday) the Station almost comes to a halt, reaching a peak usually on Fridays and Saturdays. 
The letter goes on to describe the attempts that the Aboriginals have made to have this matter remedied. The letter continues: 
People from Humpty Doo, Bamyili, Pine Creek, Maningrida, Goulburn Island, Darwin, etc., are coming to Oenpelli as a place that has no restrictions. It is hardly worth mentioning that many of these people do not respect local tribal laws, which results in fights and abuse of women. This situation can be particularly dangerous to European staff, who are normally recognised and respected by the local people, but are liable to abuse by strangers. 
The letter then goes on to say: 
I would now like to describe the events over the last few days. Wednesday 27th August the pay was given out as usual about 4 p.m. The next day there was virtually no one at work (this has become usual). Council vehicles, including one of the Council trucks had been taken, along with tractors and trailers, and by 1 p.m. there was evidence of drunkenness in all areas of the Station. 
The letter then goes on to describe some rather dreadful! occurrences which will be set out in full in the record if the Committee gives me leave to have this letter incorporated in Hansard. I will not have the time to read that part of the letter now. 
Let me read to the Committee the recommendations which are made in this letter. These are not my recommendations. These are the recommendations of the Aboriginals at Oenpelli, put up through their Council. This letter, I would think, is now an official document. The letter states: 
I would like you to consider the following points: 
Because of the large percentage of absentees from work, wages have dropped from an average of $15,000 per fortnight in the wet season to $6,400 and $8,400 over the last 2 pay periods. 
A serious health problem is arising. Garbage collection is haphazard. Blocked toilets and septic tanks could cause a serious epidemic. Raw sewerage is evident in many places, and one unfinished house has been occupied and the toilet is being used although not connected to the septic tank. Likewise, toilets in other partly constructed houses which have no water supply connected are being used. Malnutrition is becoming evident in children as well as adults. 
As a direct cause of drunkenness, school attendance has fallen from a possible 200 to 48. The average during this dry season is 60/70. Some of the reason for this is that parents find they cannot endure the conditions on the Station and they are moving to Outstations. 
There is the increasing likelihood of Aboriginal/European violence in the vicinity of the 'Border Store' which could involve some of the many visitors camping at the river crossing, as well as mining company employees. 
The morale of Aboriginal and European population . on the Station is declining . . . 
The takings of the Oenpelli Shop have fallen- by 50 per cent- 
Excessive damage is being caused to vehicles and houses by direct destruction and lack of care. 
The Council is no longer capable of having its decisions carried out. 
It will be seen that a serious problem is no longer imminent, but is actually here, one that could have untold repercussions for the Aboriginal population of Oenpelli and other nearby settlements and Missions, as well as European staff. 
I suggest that immediate action be taken on the following lines: 
The immediate placing of an adequate permanent police force at Oenpelli. 
The revolting of the Liquor Permit of the 'Border Store'. (Note: The Council has stated that it does not want a wet canteen.) c An immediate investigation of the hygiene situation, if necessary, calling in outside assistance. 
I hope to be visiting Oenpelli next week. I do not believe that this is an isolated instance. Only about a fortnight ago, on the day that Wattie Creek was handed over, I passed through Hooker Creek and I found there that the hospital had had to be evacuated because, through drunkenness, violence had been offered to the nursing staff. I was at Papunya fairly recently and I found that the same kind of thing- perhaps not to the same extent- was occurring there. 
What worries me and what should worry the Government- but that is not the point; it should worry the Australian people- is that the Aborigines in the north of Australia, whether they be in Western Australia or in the Northern Territory, are being debauched by a flood of money which they cannot sustain. We are ruining the people and sending them down to degradation. This is happening. It is not my letter from which I have quoted; this is a letter written officially by the council of Aborigines at Oenpelli. It has been widely circulated by them. I take this opportunity to seek leave to have the whole letter incorporated in  Hansard. 
Oenpelli Council, Community Service Bag No. 6, via Darwin, 5791. 4 September 1975 
Mr W. Wentworth,M.P., House of Representatives, Parliament House, CANBERRA, A.C.T. 2600. 
Dear  Mr Wentworth, 
I would like to draw your attention to a serious situation, and one that is going to get worse, at Oenpelli in regard to drunkenness. You will no doubt be aware of the past history, so I will only mention recent events. 
With the drying up of the road since last June there has been a growing problem with alcoholic drink. For almost a week after each pay day (Wednesday) the Station almost comes to a halt, reaching a peak usually on Fridays and Saturdays. 
Previous letters have been written to, the then, Minister for Aboriginal Affairs-  Mr Kavenagh  the Minister for Police and Customs, and the Minister for Environment (who was approached through the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs) because the main source of liquor comes from the East Alligator River ' Border Store ', which is within the proposed Kakadu National Park. Early this year (April) two Aboriginal people from Oenpelli,  Mr Jacob  Nayinggul (Vice  Chairman  of the Oenpelli Council) and  Mr Bobby  Nganjmirra went to Canberra and had discussions with  Mr Kavenagh, Mr Wentworth, Mr Hunt, Mr 
Calder and other members of Parliament. One of Oenpelli 's European staff, who is temporarily resident in Canberra-  Mr Peter  Carroll, accompanied them. The troubles associated with the 'Border Store' were explained and statements were made to the press of their discussions which centred on the need to have the liquor permit of the 'Border Store ' revoked. This has not happened! 
Many efforts have been made in the past, including opposition in Court, all to no effect. However, I do not see that revocation of the licence will have much affect, the roads are good and much of the liquor comes from other areas. People from Humpty Doo, Bamyili, Pine Creek, Maningrida, Goulburn Island, Darwin, etc., are coming to Oenpelli as a place that has no restrictions. It is hardly worth mentioning that many of these people do not respect local tribal laws, which results in fights and abuse of women. This situation can be particularly dangerous to European staff, who are normally recognised and respected by the local people, but are liable to abuse by strangers. 
Oenpelli has made repeated requests for permanent police to be based here, but have been told that without proper faculties nothing can be done. An offer of two almost new houses, one, a three bedroom, and the other a two bedroom dwelling, and also a building that could be made suitable for an office has been made to the police. It was also stated that a building would be erected as a place of detention. Inspector Woodroff Darwin Police came and inspected the situation and subsequently sent a plan for a cell block. This plan calls for a building that would have to be done by outside contractors and would take the rest of the dry season at least to complete. It is estimated that between $20,000 and $30,000 would be required to fund the project, and this amount, has not been budgeted for. 
Recently an employee from the Department of Housing and Construction, Darwin, spent a day checking over recent additions to the water reticulation system. He mentioned that he was asked to take note of the position of the water mains in relation to a proposed mobile police station, due here, he thought, in the near future. With this information I went to Darwin on behalf of the Oenpelli Council, and talked with Inspector Woodroff, and he made enquiries but could not find any information. I then went to see  Mr Sid  Smith of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, and he also knew nothing of a mobile police station, except that there might be one available next year. 
On the 1 1th of August last, the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs,  Mr L.  Johnson, visited Oenpelli During conversation with  Mr Johnson  and other members of his party mention was made of the likelihood of a mobile police station. I understand that the matter was to be investigated. 
I would now like to describe the events over the last few days. Wednesday 27 August the pay was given out as usual about 4 p.m. The next day there was virtually no one at work (this has become usual). Council vehicles, including one of the Council trucks had been taken, along with tractors and trailers, and by 1 p.m. there was evidence of drunkenness in all areas of the Station. There is an arrangement with Police Department, Darwin, that whenever possible a patrol will be sent to Oenpelli if possible on the Thursday after pay day until Sunday night or Monday morning. As evening came it was obvious that a serious situation was developing. At about 7 p.m. in the absence of a patrol I sent a telegram to the Police Department, Darwin, informing them that a serious situation was developing, and I asked for assistance. The operator at the Darwin Post Office rang straight through to the Police Duty Officer who then asked a number of questions through the Post Office operator. I was then asked to report again the following morning, no mention was made of any patrol. 
Thursday night proved to be one of the worst on record. Many requests were made to staff for help from Aboriginal people, I myself, made several visits to different areas in answer to a call for medical assistance. I witnessed almost 100 per cent drunkenness from 14 year olds to old age pensioners. It is a miracle that there was only one serious injury, as the fighting was general and wild. 
On Friday morning, 29 August, I reported to the police through the radio of the Church Missionary Society in Darwin, and asked again for help, this was promised for Friday afternoon. A patrol did in fact arrive at the 'Border Store' and was able to reduce the amount of liquor coming into the Station, hence, Friday night was compartively quiet. Saturday afternoon it became necessary for the patrol to leave for Darwin in order to take an arrested person back. 
Not long after the patrol left liquor recommenced coming into the Station again. This continued throughout Saturday afternoon and Sunday. Fortunately, there was not much further violence due partially, I think, the departure of visitors of Oenpelli. Before the patrol left I asked if it was going to be replaced by another, the Senior Constable said he would see what he could do ... no further patrol arrived! 
I would like you to consider the following points: 
Because of the large percentage of absentees from work, wages have dropped from an average of $15,000 per fortnight in the wet season, to $6,400 and $8,400 over the last two pay periods. 
A serious health problem is arising. Garbage collection is haphazard. Blocked toilets and septic tanks could cause a serious epidemic. Raw sewerage is evident in many places, and one unfinished house has been occupied and the toilet is being used although not connected to the septic tank. Likewise, toilets in other partly constructed houses which have no water supply connected are being used. Malnutrition is becoming evident in children as well as adults. 
As a direct cause of drunkenness, school attendance has fallen from a possible 200 to 48. The average during this dry season is 60/70. Some of the reason for this is that parents find they cannot endure the conditions on the Station and (hey are moving to Outstations. 
There is the increasing likelihood of Aboriginal/European violence in the vicinity of the Border Store' which, could involve some of the many visitors camping at the river crossing, as well as mining company employees. 
The morale of Aboriginal and European population on the Station is declining, and a reduction of European staff is a possibility at a time when the Station is already understaffed. Aboriginal population at Oenpelli is approximately 600. European population is as follows: 

<graphic href="096131197509104_68_0.jpg"></graphic>

The takings of the Oenpelli Shop have fallen from an average of $8,000 per week to $4,000, a 50 per cent drop. Each successive week showing a downward trend. If this is not arrested the Shop can expect to be in serious financial difficulties by the end of this dry season. The shop employs and pays the wages of 14 Aboriginal people. 7.Excessive damage is being caused to vehicles and houses by direct destruction and lack of care. 
The Council is no longer capable of having its decisions carried out. 
It will be seen that a serious problem is no longer emminent, but is actually here, one that could have untold repercussions for the Aboriginal population of Oenpelli and other nearby Settlements and Missions, as well as European staff. 
I suggest that immediate action be taken on the following lines: 
The immediate placing of an adequate permanent police force at Oenpelli. 
The revoking of the Liquor Permit of the 'Border Store'. (Note: The Council has stated that it does not want a wet canteen.) 
An immediate investigation of the hygiene situation, if necessary, calling in outside assistance. 
Yours sincerely, (T.C. COOKE) Oenpelli Council Clerk 
Read and agreed to, on behalf of the Oenpelli Council 
(S. MARALNGURRA ) 
Chairman, Oenpelli Council 
I thank the Committee. This is not a party matter, and I am not trying to blame the Government in regard to it. What I am saying is that we have to look to the real welfare of these Aboriginal people - 

 -Mr Speaker, I give notice that at the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That under the provisions of standing order 316, this House orders that there be laid before it the following papers which were compiled with the advice of some of the most distinguished experts in the field, and which were presented to the Australian Defence Conference recently held in Sydney: 
A paper entitled  Strategic Assessment of Australia's Security,  presented by Colonel Eric Smith DSO, lately Battalion Commander in Vietnam and Director of Training for the Army; 
A paper entitled  What Measures are Necessary in the Next Decade for Australia to Acquire a Self-reliant Defence Capability?,  presented by Colonel R. C. Garland who retired from the Australian Regular 
Army last year and who has achieved an international reputation as a specialist on tactics and strategy; 
A paper entitled  In What Way Should Current Defence Allocations be Varied?,  presented by ViceAdmiral  Sir Alan  McNicoll KBE, CB, CBE, GM, formerly Chief of the Australian Naval Staff. 
That in the opinion of this House this order should be made promptly, so that the material in these papers may be placed before honourable members when the defence estimates are being debated. 
I want to address my remarks to the Prime Minister's Department. Every department, of course, depends upon its ministerial head and I want to suggest to the House that perhaps we are not paying enough respect to our great leader, the duce, the fuhrer or whatever one likes to call him. This is especially so when we have somebody who is such a great scholar and who is able to refute Ministers in this House by the very force of his presence. It does not seem to me that the country is paying enough respect to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  He has to go round apparently in a small Mercedes, though I am told that he has ordered a grand Mercedes. If so, I am sure that the whole country will feel that the money is well spent. 

 Mr Chairman, as you do not live in Sydney you would not know this, but the Prime Minister when in Sydney is compelled to occupy comparatively humble quarters in Kirribilli House while being overshadowed by Admiralty House next door, the residence of the GovernorGeneral. I do not for one moment suggest that the Governor-General should be evicted but could not some arrangement be made so that the Prime Minister could occupy something which is consonant with the dignity of his office? Surely this could be done. Surely the country owes something to the Prime Minister and should be grateful for what he has done for the country, and we should not begrudge him proper quarters. 
He has had to leave his loved house in his electoratea great hardship to him- and I would suggest that under the estimates for this Department we should arrange for the erection of a proper monument in front of the house where he lived in his electorate, his own loved house, so that it could be preserved for posterity. It is a matter for the National Trust to look at, but at least the Department should be capable of erecting in front of the Prime Minister's house in his electorate a proper monument to his occupancy. I go into the Commonwealth Parliament Offices in Sydney and I am overwhelmed to see before me in glorious technicolour the portrait of the Prime Minister looking down on us. This is a good thing. Surely we could all forget any kind of outmoded tradition or anything like that which binds us to the past. Here we have the present Prime Minister looking down on us and it fills us with awe and reverence to see it. It should be possible to arrange at the expense of the Department for flowers to be placed daily at the foot of this august portrait. I suggest perhaps that stinkwort would be proper to commemorate him and I am prompted to suggest it by his memorable weekend phrase about the stink which envelopes the Australian Labor Party. I suggest we should do something of this character. After all, is it enough to have the Prime Minister's portrait simply on the entrance to our rooms? Would it not be better to remind us all of the duty we owe to him by having the portrait of the Prime Minister, smaller perhaps but in colour, were exhibited in the rooms of all members. 
-Of course it would. That would be only his due, having in mind the tremendous eminence which he shows and the tremendous reverence and love which we on this side of the House together with all Australians bear towards the Prime Minister, and the gratitude we have for the wonderful way in which he has improved the economy of this country during his term of office. Not only should the portraits be there, but I think it should be obligatory upon people when they enter a room containing such a portrait to make a small gesture of respect to it. I know that among most honourable members there would be no difficulty about seeing that this was done but I know that there are some disaffected members on the Government side who might not always be as respectful as they should be towards their mighty leader. In those circumstances perhaps we could have closed circuit television so that we could ensure that when anybody entered one of these rooms he made the proper and respectful gesture of obeisance to the portrait of the Prime Minister. After all, this is socialism at work. 
We could all learn to love Big Brother. This is 1984, 9 years in advance, but the Prime Minister has brought Australia so far ahead that perhaps we have got to 1 984 a little earlier under his wonderful leadership. Something should be done to enshrine and immortalise further the thoughts of the Prime Minister. I think it would be fitting if in the space over  Mr Speaker's  chair we were to have some of the Prime Minister's immortal words placed before us- phrases like: 'You are a disgrace to your profession', or his memorable phrase from the weekend regarding the kickbacks which trade union officials were receiving from solicitors. Surely these are the kinds of things which in our reverence and homage to the Prime Minister we should be considering. We should be thinking of ways and means by which we on behalf of the country could express our love and admiration for the Prime Minister and everything he has done for us. 
As a classical scholar the Prime Minister will remember his Tacitus. He will remember the crime of Crimen Maiestatis, sometimes called Maiestas. of disrespect to authority which the Roman emperors punished so properly and fearfully whenever it was exhibited. Disrespect to the 
Prime Minister's authority? It seems almost incredible that anybody should show it, but if anybody did then let the vengeance come on them as it did in Roman times. Finally I would suggest that the procedures of this House be adapted to suit the august presence of the Prime Minister. Perhaps in the morning he should come in after  Mr Speaker  and when we have bowed to  Mr Speaker  and he has bowed to us the Prime Minister could take his place at the table and with an appropriate gesture the House as one man could rise and say: 'Hail Whitlam'. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
1 ) What are the names, addresses and dates of appointment of authorized civil marriage celebrants. 
How many marriages has each one celebrated between the date of appointment and 30 June 1975. 

 -Mr Deputy Chairman- 

Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Proposed expenditures agreed to. 

 Sitting suspended from 5.59 to 8 p.m. 

Department of Manuf acturing Industry 
Proposed expenditure, $82,402,000. 
Two or three weeks ago in this House I read a letter that I had received from the Aboriginal community at Oenpelli. It was a rather dreadful letter telling of the devastation of the community by alcohol and the lack of discipline and the whole breakdown of the fabric of their society. During the short parliamentary recess I took the opportunity, together with the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  and the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland),  of visiting Oenpelli to see whether the facts as set out in that letter were true. I came to the melancholy conclusion that not only were they true but also that the letter had underestimated the gravity of the situation. 
I knew that a similar situation, although not as bad by any means, was gathering at Yirrkala. When I was in Darwin a couple of weeks a go I saw people from Elcho Island who told me that there was again not as bad a situation but a similar situation gathering at Elcho Island. I heard also of the bad things that have happened at Maningrida. So it can be said that throughout Arnhem Land the society of the 6000 or 7000 Aboriginal people there is in the process of dissolution and decay. That has to be stopped. The Aborigines themselves want it stopped and asked for something to be done. I do not believe that any measures can be effectively taken in this area unless they are backed by Aboriginal consent. Therefore, I would not advocate any measures which do not have that consent behind them. 
One of the things that the Aborigines are asking for is proper police protection, and they are entitled to have it. These are Aborigines who are asking for the protection of police and specifically asking for the location of European police officers in their communities. I took this question up with them and I am quite certain of what they are asking for. They ask that these officers should have Aboriginal aides. They ask also that their tribal customs should gain more recognition than they get from our administration of the law. All these requests are reasonable. When I made some inquiries I found that it would be some time before police could be stationed in the area. It was said that there is no suitable accommodation for them and that there is no point in putting a constable there unless he has some kind of complex with detention cells and things of that character. I am saying that we cannot wait for this to happen. There is not time because the processes of dissolution and decay are going on so rapidly in that Aboriginal community. One of the things that has to happen now, and only with Aboriginal consent and because Aboriginal initiative has asked for it, is the stationing of police officers immediately in these communities. 
As honourable members know there are police officers at Maningrida. There is an officer at Yirrkala or Nhulunbuy which is just next door to Yirrkala. Other officers are needed; certainly at Oenpelli, Goulburn Island, Mulingimbi and Elcho Island and I think also just outside the reserve on what is known as the Jim Jim Crossing. It may be that these police officers would have to have temporary accommodation. If a house cannot be provided they will have to have caravans. But it has to be done quickly and now where the Aboriginals want it and only where the Aboriginals ask for it. 
I suggest that we can get over the difficulties by one simple device. Over Arnhem Land we have a wonderful flying doctor service. I say that this has to have in parallel with it a flying magistrate based, say, at Yirrkala, which is more or less central to the area about which I am talking. That magistrate should have an aeroplane so that when there is a violation he can be on the spot the following day. The aeroplane should have in it accommodation for prisoners so that if necessary, because there is no local detention cell, they can be taken away. This must be done swiftly and justice must be meted out swiftly if the present disorder is in any way to be contained. 
In addition to this I believe that we have to give back to the Aboriginal communities discipline over their own members and we have to recognise the right of the tribal organisations to inflict punishment on their own people when they so determine. This is something which we would not want to apply to Aboriginals unless we gave to those who did not want to accept the tribal discipline the capacity to emigrate freely from Arnhem Land. I would not suggest that we allow death or mutilation as punishment. I would suggest that any Aboriginal who wants should be able to get out of Arnhem Land and avoid tribal punishment. But, with those reservations, tribal punishment should be reinstated throughout Arnhem Land. 
-I would like to make some remarks on matters relating to social services and particularly to draw attention to the failure of the Government to carry out its promises. There are many things in respect of which the Government has failed to carry out its promises but I want to make particular note of two of them. Firstly, it said quite definitely that by this time it would have got rid of the means test for everybody over the age of 65 years. It has welshed on that promise. Secondly, it talked about raising the rate of pensions to 25 per cent of the average weekly earnings. Well, it has welshed on that promise too because the pension rate now is approximately the same percentage of average weekly earnings as it was when the Government came to power in 1 972. 
I am told that it is right. I will produce figures because I think this has to be done scientifically. Honourable members should remember that there is a lag in the production of those figures. The Government is guilty of some kind of deception by not making allowance for that lag by reason of the run-away prices. That lag was not important when we of the Opposition parties were in office because prices were not running away, but now that they are running away the 6 months lag is of very great statistical importance. It is of more than statistical importance; it is important for the unhappy pensioners who find that their pensions are not able to purchase as much as they had believed. 
I am going to talk also about the virtual shutting off of the aged persons homes scheme, the failure to honour promises, the failure to allow further commitments and the way in which these very worthy institutions have been put in financial straits from time to time. These are matters which are sins of commission. There is one sin of omission to which I want to draw particular attention and that is the failure to do anything for the motherless family, for the man who has to support and look after his children because his wife has died or because his wife has deserted him. I believe that we of the Opposition should have done something about this matter in our time. It was next in priority on my list when I was Minister for Social Services and it is absolutely disgraceful that now, 3 years later, nothing has been done and nothing is in contemplation. The reason for that is very simple; the Government has had to outlay tremendous sums on unemployment benefits. 
I am not suggesting that such sums should not be outlaid on unemployment where necessary and where there is no abuse. What I am saying is that these sums have to be outlaid because of the degree of unemployment in the community which in the main has been created by the Government. If honourable members look at the Budget papers they will see that this year $43 7m is being allocated for unemployment and sickness benefits. I have made some rough calculations and I think that in view of the volume of unemployment at present and the unemployment that is expected this figure has been underestimated by something like $150m a year. We will have to see how the figures are for the rest of the financial year but I am very much afraid that the present Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  has underestimated and that he will have to find an even greater amount for unemployment relief than the prodigious figure of $437m that he had to place in his Budget. 
Let me put the situation clearly. It is because of the immensity of this expenditure, which is a necessary consequence of the Government's economic failure, that other social services have had to be cut back. Unemployment means a double loss. It means a loss to all other social service recipients and potential recipients because payments to them have had to be cut in order to meet this expenditure, and even worse, in fact far worse, it means a loss to the unemployed people. What about the sufferings of unemployed people. I know that there are some people who are called bludgers and that there are some people who are polling on the community; that is true. However, there are large numbers of people who are unemployed through no fault of their own but simply because of the disastrous policies of this Government. They are the people we have to keep in mind. Sure, this sum of $600m has to be found this year for unemployment benefits. 
The fact that we have to find that amount of money means that hundreds of thousands of people are suffering undeserved unemployment by reason of this Government's failure, its economic clumsiness and its inability to manage the economy. This is tremendously serious because among the people included is a large number of juveniles who want their first job. There still are about 40 000 or 50 000 unemployed people from last year's school leaven. What do we think of this? It is not just the economic loss that has to be considered. Probably the school leavers suffer less economic loss because their parents still keep them. But what about the non-economic losses? Losses in morale are of tremendous consequence for school leavers. The Government has created a generation which has no work experience and which is becoming habituated to unemployment. This is a terrible moral thing that follows as a consequence of this Government's policy. These people deserve something better than what they have been offered. There is no precedence for this kind of thing since the depression of 1931 and 1932. 
We have never had anything like this sustained level of unemployment in the Australian community since those days. It is no good to say that this is only the consequence of something that happened internationally. That simply is not true because Australia is one of those fortunate countries which with its physical resources is able to isolate itself from these international disasters. We have not really suffered a collapse of our export prices with the one exception, I think, of meat. We are not worried about credits from overseas. Indeed this Government has gone to great lengths to prevent the inflow of money for one reason or another so that cannot be the case. We have not been worried by the oil price hike because over 70 per cent of our oil is still locally produced. These are facts and there is no reason at all why a government that had been running the economy successfully should have had to meet this sustained level of unemployment. 
Let me remind the Committee that when this Government went to the election in 1974 it pledged itself to no unemployment. In point of fact it brought about some kind of fallacious kick in the economy in April and May of that year and it put over the deception that unemployment was coming to an end. That was not so at all. Exactly the opposite was the case. The Government was guilty of a calculated cold deception. It is a fraudulent government that gained power by a fraudulent policy which it knew to be based on a lie. It is not fit to remain in office. I say to the Government: Get off the backs of the Australian people and give them a chance- resign. 
-In accordance with the provisions of Standing Order 131,I move: 
That the petition just read by the  Clerk,  which comes from certain citizens of Australia and which prays that the House will withdraw its confidence in the present Prime Minister - 
worth asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
1 ) What amount was expended by his Department under the  Petroleum and Minerals Authority Act  in each calendar month during 1974-75. 
On what objects or projects was expenditure incurred under the Petroleum and Minerals Authority Act during 1 974-75, and how much was expended on each of them. 
I certainly support the remarks of the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  in regard to this motion. I suppose that nobody would know more practically than he would about these roads. I think that the points he made are very valid. I do not intend detaining the House for more than a minute or so. I hope that some consideration might be given to a road connection from Alice Springs to Broken Hill. This is perhaps the big defect in the whole of the roads system. One can come to the Stuart Highway from Mt Isa but to come to the highway from Sydney or Melbourne is not so easy or convenient. It seems to me- and I know something of this area myself- that the most important link to think of now is from the point where the road meets the South Australian border across to Broken Hill. From Broken Hill there are already tarred roads to both Melbourne and to Sydney. The link would cross the road from Adelaide northwards through Port Augusta, which portion is not completely sealed yet, to Marree. I believe this section reasonably soon could be quite easily sealed. This would give us from Adelaide, Melbourne and Sydney a link into Alice Springs and therefore a feed-in to the Northern Territory. I hope at some future time to say something in more detail about this suggestion, but at present I simply content myself with supporting the remarks made by the honourable member for the Northern Territory and commending to the Government the possibility of investigating further the link from Broken Hill to Alice Springs. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I would like to make 2 points only and to make them very briefly. The first is in relation to scientific programs in general. It is false economy to cut these back and to believe that you can make heavy cuts in research allocations and still maintain the integrity and progress of the system. I know that in the estimates for the Department of Science and Consumer Affairs those cuts do not appear to be very substantial. There may be insufficient allowance for the rise in prices. I note, for example- I am now speaking not of research but of administration- that the proposed amount for postal and telephone expenditure in the Department seems to be grossly underestimated if what was spent last year is any criterion. I understand that in the Senate Estimates Committee hearing it has been found out that the estimates which are before us are in some respects grossly underestimated. However, I make this observation in passing because my main point is one which is not, I think, concerned so much with these estimates as with research co-ordinated with these estimates but taking place outside them in universities where the slash has really caused tremendous economic loss and has been most ill-advised. 
Having said that, I want to come to one thing which is of less consequence but still not entirely without consequence, that is, the position on the Ord River and the scientific back-up for what is going on on the Ord River. The Ord River scheme has in summary been rather a disaster. This area has the best source of water, I think, in the whole of Australia and most of it is going to waste because of the failure of the agricultural schemes. There have been 2 reasons for this, I think. The first is that there was an unscientific and undue reliance upon pesticides which had the effect of destroying the natural predators of the harmful insects and therefore ultimately multiplying the insects and the damage they did. The cotton program on the Ord has been wiped out through this reliance on pesticides, which was counter-productive in the long run because of the lack of understanding of what was involved. Not only did this scientific boo-boo wipe out the cotton venture on the Ord but it also had the effect of increasing the insect troubles in other crops. The scheme very largely came to a halt. 
This year there has been a much reduced application of pesticides and a reliance on more selective types of pesticides. The result has been that the overall productivity of the area has increased immensely. There are still some great problems in regard to the depredations by birds. The magpie geese, even the brolga, and other birds are doing a great deal of damage and the scheme is in the doldrums. Tens of millions of dollars- maybe many tens of millions of dollars -worth of productivity is being lost every year through lack of proper knowledge of what to do. As the Minister for Science and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  will very well know, there is a research station on the Ord. This is the point I come to- that the research station over recent years has not had the feed-in of resources and manpower which it should have had. It is very false economy to think that by cutting down a few tens of thousands of dollars a year on a research station one can save anything when by so doing one is losing tens of millions of dollars worth of productivity. This is what has happened on the Ord. 
I still believe in the potential of the Ord, but there has been a monumental boo-boo. It should not have happened. The water resources are there. I believe that the soil resources are there. But gross errors have been made in what crops to grow there, how to grow them and how to protect them. Of course I am not suggesting for one moment that everything must succeed at the first attempt. I know that in a venture like this trial and error are necessary. But what I am saying is that in this kind of situation we should be speeding up the scientific backup of the trial and error performances. What has been happening there- I do not think that it is the fault of the people on the ground; the fault is more that they have not had the backup- has been really rather shocking. Owing to a lack of resources in investigating new crops, in investigating ways of protecting existing crops and in investigating ways in which to minimise the harmful effect of the overapplication of pesticides, there has been a shortfall in all these investigations. In order to save a few tens of thousands of dollars a year we have been losing in productivity tens of millions of dollars every year. I am sure that the Ord scheme can be made a success. Unhappily, up to date its record is one of failure. That should not be the case. When we have this very big investmentwe have a very big investment in the water supply and in the other facilities there- it is really false economy to cut down, as we have cut down, on the scientific investigations to make things right. Any person who wants to economise on his motor car by not putting oil into the engine is bound to come a cropper, and that is what has happened to us on the Ord. I ask the Minister to see that this does not continue. 
I would just like to make 3 short points. First, I think we had better have a look at the acceleration in the flood of paper that comes out of Government departments. Much of this is selfadulatory. It does not really add to any information and it has quite monstrously grown over the last two or three years. I think the Committee might well measure it almost by the weight of paper that comes out from Government departments, and might well look at the quality of it. Very often it is pure nonsense. Honourable members will know how the desks in their rooms are cluttered by the floods of stuff that come in and which are of such a character that you cannot really separate the grain from the chaff. I do not say that there should be no government publicationsin fact I say the opposite. But it seems to me that if we were to be a bit more selective about the quality of the things we publish they would have a greater impact. The pure volume of the material that is distributed often is enough to destroy its effect. Against that may I say that I hope that something further can be done to assist the circulation  of Hansard  from this Parliament. Honourable members have complained that the Press does not always report what is said with accuracy. The columns of the Press would become cluttered if they had to include everything that was said in the Parliament. But  Hansard  is a true record. This is a non-Party matter because it affects all Parties. It would be desirable for  Hansard  to be more widely disseminated. I have said 2 things which may seem to be a little contradictory, but if one analyses them one will find that they are not. 
The next point I make is that I have some doubt about the desirability of concentrating everything in a single Department of the Media. One of the ways of achieving freedom of expression is to have a lot of people who have power to publish without restriction on their opinion. The Government's machine is a very heavy machine. The mere weight of the material being published is evidence of that. Even if it were not as economical it would still be better morally if we did not have a single Department of the Media but if we allowed this material to be disseminated more widely. Perhaps there would not be the same efficiency but it would not be subject to the same kind of totalitarian danger. However well intentioned the Minister may be personally, there is always a danger that the concentration of this power will lead to its abuse. 
Remember the old phrase  Quis custodiet ipsos custodes?- 'Who  will look after the guards themselves?' That is something which even the Minister, well intentioned though he may be, should keep in mind. 
I refer now to broadcasting and television. I hope that the restraints which, for decency's sake, have been placed on the commercial stations will be applied to the Australian Broadcasting Commission and its subsidiaries. Recently there have been quite gross transgressions. The one that is receiving the most attention, I suppose, is one of the worst. That was a broadcast in relation to pederasty. It is no use saying that these matters are in the public interest. The point is that by broadcasting these things they are given greater emphasis, and the very ills that are talked about are exacerbated. I will not go into the details of that particular program. By going into the details I myself would be exacerbating the damage that has been done. That was an abominable program- I use the word 'abominable' in the very strictest sense- which was directed to doing moral damage. I am sure that it did moral damage. The pretence that it was a discussion on a matter of public interest is too transparent to be maintained. The Government which permitted this program should be thoroughly ashamed of itself and the organisation that broadcast it should be thoroughly ashamed of itself. 
I come now to a subject which, although true, perhaps will not receive as much credit as it should receive. We know that amongst our communist enemies there is a concerted plot to deprave and cause disruption. It comes through trade unions, which here have disruptive strikes which of course are not permitted in the communist countries. It comes through moral laxity, which is encouraged by communists but not permitted sometimes in communist countries. It comes through the drugs which are coming into Australia and other places through communist influences and through communist channels. There can be no doubt of that. This is part of a world conspiracy. There are too many communists in the ABC. It is time they were rooted out and exposed. Until we can get rid of them we will not get rid of the kind of deliberate moral pollution that is being spread through certain parts -not all parts-of the ABC. I say that the Government should be thoroughly ashamed of itself for allowing this to continue. 
I always listen with some sadness to the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren).  One feels that he is good natured and sincere however wrong-headed he may be. It is a little saddening for the Committee to hear this and to realise it. He spoke of the Blue Mountains national park and was good enough to mention me in connection with it. I hope that we will see some action in this matter. I believe that it is important for Sydney that the Blue Mountains national park be extended. The Minister said that it has been left to this Government to do it and that nothing happened during the 23 years of Liberal Government. This is, or should be, a State matter but what has happened under this Government is that raging inflation has put State budgets in a strait-jacket and the States are being left in the position where they cannot carry out their proper responsibilities. I think it is a concerted plan. The Government puts the States in financial difficulties then takes it upon itself to carry out functions which belong to the States. It comes to their rescue, as it were, and then gives itself a pat on the back for so doing. 
Yes, I do want the Blue Mountains national park extended. I believe, however, that it is the proper function of the State, not the Commonwealth but in view of the fact that the Commonwealth has put the State in this kind of financial strait-jacket it may have to do something about it. 
-The honourable member for Wilmot is part of the socialist machine which is cramping the States and creating a financial position under which functions must be transferred from the State governments to the Government here in Canberra. 
The other thing I wanted to say is of a more serious nature. The Minister's plans are badly based. His schemes are badly based because they are premised on a degree of growth which simply is not occurring and is not likely to occur in the Australian population. Professor Borrie brought down a report some time ago which shocked people because it indicated that between now and the end of the century there was unlikely to be more than 2 million people added to our population. I am afraid Professor Borrie was over-optimistic. At the time he wrote he did not realise what was going to happen to our population increase as a result of the policies of the present Labor Government. 
I think that honourable members will have looked at the report of the Auditor-General, particularly at page 92 where the Auditor-General speaks of the expenditure under the invalidated Petroleum and Minerals Authority Act 1973. It will be remembered that this Act came into operation on 14 August 1974. The High Court declared it invalid on 24 June 1975. I quote from the Auditor-General 's report which states: 
Subsequently, in a legal advising given to the Department of Minerals and Energy the Attorney-General's Department stated, among other things, that since there never was, in point of law, at any stage in 1974-75 a Petroleum and Minerals Authority Act, no moneys were lawfully available for payment under Division 890-5 of  Appropriation Act  (No. 2) 1974-75. The advising also stated that the beneficial ownership, if not the legal ownership, of the moneys in the form which they now take belong to the Consolidated Revenue Fund. 
The Auditor-General points out that $50m was transferred from Consolidated Revenue to the Petroleum and Minerals Authority. Of that amount, some $18m was repaid when the Act was declared invalid.The Auditor-General notes that some $6m was spent on operations from 14 August 1974 to 24 June 1975. This leaves something like $25m unaccounted for. The report does not disclose where that $25m went. I suppose it was paid out for something or other. The point is that this was irregular. Maybe it was done in good faith but there was a serious financial irregularity. I asked a question on notice in regard to this matter of the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor).  The reply is in today's  Hansard.  I shall read part of my question: 
On what objects or projects was expenditure incurred under the Petroleum and Minerals Authority Act during 1974-75, and how much was expended on each of them. 
I think that honourable members will realise that this is a very proper question to be directed to the Minister in relation to expenditure which, even though it might have been made in good faith, was nevertheless illegal and improper. The Minister's reply to that question was: 
This question relates to matters of detail in the management of the Authority's operations upon which the Petroleum and Minerals Authority was neither required nor expected to report. 
This is almost without precedent. Here, when moneys have been improperly expended, the Minister in charge refuses point blank to say what they have been expended on. The Parliament is not to be allowed to know how this $50m has been spent. One cannot tell and the Minister refuses to tell. This is absolutely intolerable. It is an infringement of the rights of this House. 
When money has been spent in this way, against the law, even if it has been done in good faith, this House has a right and a duty to discover what the money was spent on. Why does the Minister endeavour to hide behind this wall of silence? The answer may well be in section 42 of the Audit Act which provides that the AuditorGeneral should surcharge any person responsible for a wrongful payment and should make him personally Liable to repay money which has been wrongfully expended. I think we would all say that it is reasonable to suppose that the AuditorGeneral would use his powers to remit, as he is entitled to do under the Act, any such surcharge arising out of expenditure made before 24 June 1975- the date on which the High Court declared the Act invalid. After all, even if the payments were unlawful- as they were- they might have been made in good faith under the Act which was believed to be lawful. I would not expect a surcharge to be maintained on the Minister. It had to be made but it should not be maintained in respect of any expenditure made before 24 June 1975. But what about the expenditure, if any, made after that date? 
We know that one expenditure was made after that date, because the Auditor-General's report said so. It says: 
Funds were provided from Advance to the Treasurer on 30 June 1975 to enable payment of $566,427 to be made in 1974-75 to Delhi International Oil Corporation in respect of a commitment entered into prior to the High Court decision ... 
That may be, but have other moneys been unlawfully expended since that date? Surely before that money was paid or at any rate as soon as possible after it had been paid, this House should have been advised and a special Act of indemnity should have been passed through this House. What has been done may be in accordance with the forms of accounting; I do not know. But it is ethically improper that it should have been done without this House being notified. 
I ask now what other payments have been made under this Act or as a consequence of arrangements made under this Act since 24 June 1 975 when the High Court declared the Act to be invalid? There has been a monstrous cover-up in the Minister's refusal to divulge any information about these unlawful payments- both those made before 24 June 1975 about which we are entitled to know although not about the surcharge- and any that may have been made later. I know that there has been one made but I do not know any others. It is not unreasonable to suppose that this monstrous cover-up, this improper cover-up, is designed to protect some people and perhaps even to protect the Minister from personal liability to make restitution by surcharge. In all of this there has been a serious infringement of the rights of the House. We have a right to know what has happened to money which we have voted or which we may be called upon to vote. In order to follow the matter further, I have put a further question on notice to the Minister. Honourable members can read it in the notice paper today. 
The Minister for Minerals and Energy. I expect an answer to this question before the House meets on Thursday week, 16 October. That is a fair time to give. If I do not receive a satisfactory answer to this question by that date, I shall have to consider what, remedies are available against this reprehensible ministerial cover-up. I want to know and I will demand that that question be satisfactorily and properly answered. 
-I had not planned to take part in this adjournment debate but I. feel that some of the things which have been said tonight require following up. Some of the implications are not pleasant. In a way, the Government and the Opposition have changed their stance on defence. They are both talking now not in terms of forward defence which was better while we could envisage it, but which has been abandoned not through our choice but through force of circumstances. They talk now rather in terms of continental defence. This implies that we may have to fight in Australia. If it does not imply this, then our whole defence system is meaningless. Sure, it will be nice to have air forces, naval forces and rocket forces which can keep an enemy at some distance. But aU of us know in our hearts that without the assistance of powerful allies overseas we cannot hope to do that. It may be that we would have to fight in Australia. One hopes that we will not, but to guarantee that we will not would be irresponsible. 
In those circumstances we need disciplined manpower and we need it in big numbers. It is quite reasonable for our forces to concentrate on fire power and the things which it hopes will prevent a disaster in Australia. But we need more than that. If this is so we have to be thinking in terms of 20 or 30 years. If we mobilise for defence the population up to the age of 50 yearsthat would be a minimum- then we may have to train them 30 years in advance. What the Government should be doing now is preparing forces for an emergency which could be 30 years ahead. If we do not do that now we will never do it because the opportunity is irretrievable. I put it that if we have changed our fundamental concepts of defence- and we have changed themthen we should also be changing our fundamental concepts of manpower. What is needed is not so much fighting skills, because fighting skills change, but the human skills of being able to live in discipline, of being able to live away from habitation, of being able to live in the field and of being able to move in accordance with a disciplined and set plan. 
These are unpleasant things, but a government which does not face up to an unpleasant reality will, I think, be betraying Australia. I am not trying to put this forward as a policy from our side of the House. I am not in a position to do so. I am not trying to blame the Government. That would not be the right thing to do at the present moment in this context. In my view, the changed concept of continental defence which we have now adopted makes necessary, as a corollary, universal training from the age of 18 or 20 for a couple of years. In my view, it is not so much a training in anything more than elementary marksmanship and in the use of small arms as far as fighting is concerned; what is needed is the training to live in the field and in accordance with disciplines. I am not putting this forward as something on behalf of my Party- I am not empowered or entitled to do that- but I think the best solution may well be 2 years in a labour force in the field and away from home for all Australian youth from now on until we get some kind of better international security. Unless we do this we will find ourselves irretrievably - 
I ask the Prime Minister: Does he recall how former President Nixon sacrificed one subordinate after another in an attempt to maintain the fiction that he had no prior knowledge of their misdeeds and that he was not involved in the Watergate affair? Has the Prime Minister as yet - 
-On 4 October the Sydney  Bulletin  published an article from which I propose to read an extract. It stated that the honourable member for Lalor  Dr Jim  Cairns, was hobnobbing with the pro-Ustasha Croatian Liberation Movement. The article states: 

 Dr Jim and his wife were surprise and unexpected guests at a dinner dance on September 6 in St. Augustine's Hall, Yarraville, Melbourne. 
The revellers were astonished, to say the least. There was the portrait of the Ustasha leader, Ante Pavelic, on the walland the Ustasha version of the Croatian flag. 
The secretary, Joseph Cuk- who was once named by Lionel Murphy as one of the alleged leaders of the Croatian organisation plotting against Australian Labor leadersgreeted  Dr and Mrs Cairns,  and arranged for their entertainment. 
The writer of this article,  Mr David  McNicoll, states: 
I rang Jim Cairns to check the accuracy of the information about his appearance at the party. He confirmed it, and added: 'I told them that in my opinion, the Croatian community in Victoria had great human content, and that I wanted to help it in every decent way, particularly by Access Radio. 'I told them I wanted them to have every opportunity of genuine expression. I regarded them as warm, real people who wanted and deserved recognition. ' 
When I read this- I had been told of it previously- I was unable to believe it because although the opinions which the honourable member for Lalor has expressed were those which I think should be shared by me and other honourable members, they were not the opinions which the honourable member had expressed in this House and elsewhere. In order to check this matter I rang the secretary,  Mr Cuk,  in Melbourne. I checked from his own lips the fact that this had occurred. The dance was held.  Dr Cairns,  the honourable member for Lalor, and his wife appeared unexpectedly at it. There was some confusion but it was decided that they should be given every courtesy. They were greeted. The honourable member for Lalor  (Dr Cairns),  explained that he believed that the Croatian community had been traduced, that there had been a misunderstanding but that all would be sweetness and light between him and the Croatians. 
This is almost incredible because it was  Dr Cairns  who led the pack of Australian Labor Party hounds which denounced the Croatian community. I have heard him and other members of the Australian Labor Party in this House denounce, for example, the former honourable member for Corio- your seat,  Mr Speakerbecause  it was said that he had appeared at a meeting where the Croatian flag and the portrait of a Croatian leader were displayed. This was said by the ALP group to be an appalling thing. The hounds led by the honourable member for Lalor, who had ex-Senator Murphy in the pack with him, savaged the Croatian people, accused them of every crime and really traduced them in every way. This was done for a political purpose, as is now shown, by somebody who did not believe what he was saying at the time. The important thing is that the honourable member for Lalor,  Dr Cairns,  has now shown that the whole of the Government's campaign against the Croatians in those days, led by him and  Senator Murphy,  was based on a he. They knew that what they were saying was untrue. They got up this scare against the Croatians. They traduced them in every possible way for the meanest and lousiest of political purposes. This is the measure of this Government. Those gentlemen were prepared to falsify facts. They were prepared to use what they described as intelligence reports- I do not believe they were intelligence reports at all - for the purpose of a campaign against the Croatian people. 
They did not care that in the course of the campaign they were making life miserable for many people in Melbourne, Sydney and other places. They named people under the protection of the privileges of this House. I am sure that they knew that what they said was false because now the honourable member for Lalor,  Dr Cairns,  the leader of the pack, says that it was false, that the Croatian people have been maligned. Here we have the chief of the maligners now pretending penitence, crawling for votes and saying that all his previous protestations were false. He even greeted in a friendly way  Mr Cuk  who had been named by the Labor Party as one of the traitors and ringleaders in this so-called Croatian plot. 
It may be unimportant about the honourable member for Lalor. He is now a person of no importance. But it is important to realise that the Labor Party's campaigns are unscrupulous and based on lies. The Labor Party does not hesitate to attack people for a political purpose, and to ruin their personal lives if they can, knowing that what is said is false. I heard somebody on the other side of the chamber a moment ago use the word 'communists'. Of course, this is part of the situation. Everybody knows that while this was going on the communist  Tribune  was hurrah-ing for the Government. It was supporting the persecution of the Croatians. It was saying that these were abominable people. There was a complete parallel between the communist propaganda and what was said in those days by the honourable member for Lalor,  Senator Murphy  and other people on the Labor benches. 
We now find that it is all phoney. We now know that from the first these people knew that it was phoney. Perhaps I am wrong; perhaps some of them did not know that it was phoney. Perhaps they were the victims of their leaders who co-operated with the communists in getting up this phoney scare against the Croatians. It was run by the Australian Labor Party and the Communist Party working in tandem. This is something that the House and the country will remember. I hope that every person of overseas origin who is now a voter and who finds a Labor Party member crawling to them for votes, as the honourable member for Lalor crawled on 6 September, will know that the Labor Party is phoney through and through on this issue. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to raise a point of order that relates to today's notice paper. You will recall,  Sir, that  yesterday I addressed a question to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the Prime Minister asked me to put it on notice. I did put it on notice, and I received from the Assistant  Clerk  the following note: 
Your question has been considered by the  Clerk  and  Mr Speaker  and ruled to be out of order on the attached grounds. 

 Sir, you will recall that in the House a point of order was raised and you ruled the question in order. Subsequently you reversed your ruling. I believe that your first ruling was right and your second ruling was wrong, and I wish to put to you a point of order in regard to it. 
The attached paper sets out the grounds on which you reversed, outside the House, the ruling that you had given in the House. I wish now to traverse those grounds on the points that you have raised. My question to the Prime Minister, and I read it exactly, was: 
Does he recall how former President Nixon sacrificed one subordinate after another in an attempt to maintain the fiction that he had no prior knowledge of their misdeeds and that he was not involved in the Watergate affair? 
The comment that I have received says: 
I cannot see how paragraph 1 of the question relates to public affairs or any matter of administration for which  Mr Whitlam  is responsible (standing order 142). 
I think it is the usual practice of this House to permit a small introductory paragraph which will help to explain the nature of the question. This is relevant because it shows that an overseas head of government, perhaps even a head of government holding a more exalted position than the Prime Minister of Australia, has done these things. It is therefore not unreasonable to consider the possibility that the head of an Australian Government might act in the same way. The preamble is short; it is relevant. 
Secondly,  Mr Speaker,  you have said that the second paragraph clearly imputes an action to the Prime Minister, which is contrary to standing order 144. 1 wish to read now that second paragraph because I do not think, with all due respect, that it comes within the strictures which you have mentioned. It reads: 
Has the Prime Minister as yet taken any steps to destroy or suppress any evidence which would show that he had personal and prior knowledge of the activities of the former Treasurer and the former Minister for Minerals and Energy? 
It is well known that in the community abroad there is a grave suspicion - 
There seems to be a curious sense of unreality in the Government's approach to this Bill. It is a sense of unreality which is parallel to its approach to the major matters before this House. The Government does not seem to realise that it has only a little time to run and that as soon as the electors can get their hands on it they will destroy it, for there is not the slightest doubt that if an election can be brought about the Government will be thrown from office, dragged screaming from the tart shop, as the phrase goes. That is why the Government with a guilty conscience, knowing that it has done wrong - 
-Your Government. Knowing that it has done wrong, knowing that it has harmed the Australian people, it is trying desperately by any unworthy manoeuvre to avoid an election. 
I tried to draw a parallel, and I will now, between the Government's attitude to the major questions and its attitude to this Bill. There is the same sense of unreality in the Government's approach. For example, a few moments ago the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Mathews)  talked about Geelong reaching a population of 500 000 by the year 2000. We find the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  talking about having a big new suburb at Campbelltown near Sydney, about having a growth centre at Albury-Wodonga and about the growth of Canberra. All these things are utterly inconsistent because under the present Government's policy and as far as can be foreseen, unless there is a major change in Australia's immigration policy, only about 2 million people will be added to the total population of Australia between now and the year 2000. This figure may be a little less than that contained in the Borrie Commission report. 
-A little less, and only a little less. The Borrie Commission report was posited on things which were in existence some years ago and which have been changed- I am afraid that they have been changed beyond remedy- by the disastrous policies of this Government. Our birth rate is down and is falling. Immigration has been turned off in the most inhuman way. So the populations to inhabit all these growth centres will simply not be here. That is where it was relevant for me to refer to the sense of unreality. Just as the Government is going on as though it will be in office for months and years to come, so it is laying plans now which can never be more than paper plans, because the people to translate them into actuality will not be here. They will not be in Australia. 
Let us have a look at the present position. Where are these people to come from? They will not come from natural increase, and the Government's policy has effectively turned ofT the immigration tap. With only a couple of million to go between this year and the year 2000 how are we to divide them up? We are told that there will be 300 000 or 400 000 extra people in Geelong; 200 000, 300 000 or 400 000 more here in Canberra; that we are to have a growth centre with another 200 000 or 300 000 people in AlburyWodonga; that there will be more at Orange and Bathurst; and of course the dormitory suburbs around Sydney will grow immensely. We are told that Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide, Hobart, Launceston and Perth will all get in for their cut. What about the other country towns such as Monarto, the new growth centre in South Australia? The plans of the Government are nonsense. The Government is wasting tens of millions of dollars on idiotic paper plans which cannot mean a thing because the human population to translate them into reality will simply not be here. The Government has plenty of plans but nothing else will happen. There is a curious unreality about everything the Government is doing. These grandiose schemes mean nothing because the means to carry them out will simply not be here. 
I suppose that this Bill in a way is a retreat. From the Government's point of view it may be an advance, because it is a socialistic Bill which takes away the independent powers of the Cities Commission and concentrates them in the hands of a Minister here in Canberra. This is not such a dangerous thing when we have in power, as we will shortly have in power, a Minister whose objectives are not socialistic. But the present Administration, with its sense of unreality, does not realise that the end of its political life is coming. Under that kind of socialist government this could be quite a dangerous little Bill because it takes away powers from an independent commission and puts them back in the department and the hands of a Minister. As I have said, this does not matter if we have a Minister who is well intentioned. I know that the present Minister is personally well intentioned, but his philosophy is not well intentioned because he is committed, as honourable members on the Government side are committed, to the policy of socialism. I do not think that that is well intentioned and I do not think that it is in the best interests of the Australian people. 
The Government has already attempted to bring into operation the first fruits of its doctrine. They are the destruction of the Australian economy and the reduction of living standards of the Australian people. These are the facts and these are the first fruits of socialism. So whilst I agree that the Minister in his own way is well intentioned I make no accusation of bad intentions against the Minister personally - 
-Thank you. I do make every accusation against the Party which the Minister represents in this Parliament and against the doctrines to which he is committed. This Bill, which need not be opposed because very soon it will be in the hands of a different kind of Minister, is in those circumstances not a dangerous Bill. It may be not a good Bill but it is not a particularly bad one. But in the hands of a socialist Minister- that is what it is designed for- it could be a very dangerous Bill indeed because it attempts to concentrate the power in the hands of the Minister by taking it away from the independent commission and putting it into the Minister's Department. It could be a very great power if allied, as it is allied, with the power of appropriation in the Budget. This is the way this Government is working to bring people under socialist control. It is using, or misusing, the major powers of the Budget for this purpose. If it requires money for this, that or the other, and as it has through its emasculated cohorts in this 
House a tied vote so that this House will not do anything about it, it is putting forward the monstrous proposition that the Senate has no right to bring it to order. 
What I am pointing out, and I think it is relevant to the Bill, are the proposals made in this Bill to transfer powers. That is what is happening. The Bill is to abolish the Cities Commission and to transfer the powers elsewhere. I am relevant in this regard. I am saying that the transfer of powers would not be a bad thing if we did not have a Minister in command who is dedicated to socialism and if we did not have a government in command which was able to use the appropriation power in order to exacerbate these bad consequences. That is germane, so with all respect - 
I am sorry about the undue repetition. That is a grievous fault indeed. I do not like to be repetitive. I point out that this is the substance of the Bill. We are not opposing it because we know it is not going to be in the hands of this type of government for very long. I say nothing personal against the Minister, as I said before, who I am sure within his own lights is well intentioned but I do say all I can about the philosophy of the Government which has brought in this Bill for the purpose of centralising power. It has brought it in to take away from the States functions which they should properly exercise. This surely is something which concerns this House. 
Under the Cities Commission the States did have a power of at least consultation in a proper form and a power to alter and guide the decisions of the Cities Commission. The States will not have that same kind of power when talking to a bureau in the Minister's Department. You will see what is happening in consonance with this socialist philosophy to which you,  Mr Speaker,  as well as other members of your Party, are, I know, dedicated. 

 -Yes, Sir. I am sorry if you are ashamed of your political allegiance. 
I am trying to help the Chair. At all events, there is little more that needs to be said. This Bill is based on unreality, as can be seen from the speeches made, particularly that of the honourable member for Casey a few moments ago. Secondly, it is a Bill posited on the socialist theory of the centralisation of power and the use of power in a way which takes away from the States of Australia their proper functions. There is no point in opposing the Bill. It is going to be harmless but only because it will not be administered by this kind of government. If there were a prospect of this kind of government remaining in office for long it would be a dangerous Bill and I would feel inclined to oppose it. Since we know that as soon as the electors get their hands on this Government its days are done there is not very much point in opposing something whose net effect is not going to be terribly bad in practice because it will not be in the hands of a Minister dedicated to socialism, as are all members of his Party. 
-Under the provisions of standing order 131,I now move: 
That the petition praying that this House - 
-I move: 
That the petition praying that this House withdraw its support from the Prime Minister in order that there may be a speedy - 
I beg your pardon,  Sir. I  just want to identify it. In accordance with standing order 131 it is now my duty to inform the House what further action I propose to take. The further action I propose to take is this: I give notice that at the next sitting - 
-Thank you,  Sir. 
Question resolved in the negative. 
I wanted to give notice of a motion. 
-The Prime Minister will recall that on Thursday last he said in answer to a question: 
When all the Bills which have been already been delayed or rejected once by the Senate are so delayed or rejected a second time I shall advise the Governor-General to dissolve both Houses under section 37 so that these Bills still pending for delay and rejection can be put to the people in the same way as the 21 which the honourable gentleman has mentioned. 
I ask the Prime Minister: Will he be good enough to supply me with a list of the Bills that he has in mind? 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Having regard to the concealment and destruction of public records which has happened elsewhere, for example, by the former President Nixon in relation to Watergate, will he ensure that all records in connection with the ACTU-Solo oil deal and attempts by his Ministers to arrange loans from overseas are carefully preserved and made available to all proper inquiry. 
Will he take special care to include in such records any material which would indicate the extent of his own participation in these matters, and his own knowledge of relevant events as they transpired. 
What persons, other than Ministers, who have been connected with these matters would be best qualified to give an objective and unbiased account of what actually occurred. 

 -Mr Speaker, I give notice that at the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That this House noting- 
That this Government has consistently violated the promises of low interest, stable prices and full employment on which it was elected to office in May 1974; 
That it is evident that at the time the Governmet made these promises it was fully aware that it was not going to keep them and therefore obtained office on false pretences; 
That the Government has been responsible already for widespread unemployment and loss throughout Australia; 
That there is no prospect of economic recovery unless the Government is removed from office; 
That the administration of this Government has been shot through with scandal and corruption; 
That the Prime Minister by his evasions, bluster and refusal to answer proper questions in this House has so far managed to prevent the full revelations of the misdoings within his Ministry; 
That the Prime Minister, like a little Nixon in a Canberra Watergate, has so far managed to find scapegoats who have been willing to take the full blame for misdoings in which he himself has participated; 
That in these circumstances the House should fulfill its traditional duty in accordance with the fundamental unwritten convention and carry a vote against the Government, thus bringing about the early election which is so much desired by the great majority of the citizens of Australia; 
That some members of the Government Party in this House have expressed their disquiet outside it but feel themselves precluded from voting inside it in accordance with their consciences because they signed a certain pledge as a condition of obtaining Labor endorsement as candidates; 
That if members of this House- 
-The Prime Minister - 
-At question time the Prime Minister stated that questions which he had asked to put on notice had all been answered. Now, sir - 
His name was not mentioned at any stage at question time. 
-With all respect, sir, I refer to - 

 - Sir, with respect - 
No, sir, this is a personal matter. I refer to questions - 
I refer to questions put on notice - 
I move: 
That in accordance with standing order 236 the Bill be recommitted. 

 -Mr Speaker, under the provisions of standing order 236 - 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Report adopted. 
1 have much pleasure in supporting the Travel Agents Bill and the Travel Agents (Deposits and Levies) Bill which will do a good service and which, to my mind, are overdue. Travel is big business and there have been notable abuses in the travel agency business. I refer- and the Government would know this very well- to the string of Morosi companies which took deposits from customers and in some cases failed to settle up with the hotels where they had obligations to honour the travel vouchers. This is something which the Government knows very well and which its experience with the Morosi companies may well have put into its mind. I shall not go into the details of this matter; I think it is water under the bridge. If the Government wishes me to do so I shall be happy to table the papers. But at this present moment I shall just make the statement in regard to them. 
One thing which is not realised is that corruption in this business is not related simply to the fraudulent taking of deposits. One of the main corruptions in this business has been the improper use of International Air Transport Association concessions for travel. This is something which should be corrected by these Bills. I shall be hoping to move, in the course of the Committee stage, an amendment to clause 38. 1 shall be hoping to add to clause 38 of the Travel Agents Bill this sub-clause: 
A licensed travel agent shall keep a register showing details of all concessional or free fares granted to his employees or their dependants on his application or in consequence of employment by him, and such register shall be open to inspection by persons authorised by the Board. 
I think this is necessary in order to close off an avenue of corruption which has been endemic in the travel agency business. What has been happening is that people have been fraudulently putting forward the names of people as their employees. They find somebody in a position of influence and they put that man or his wife forward as a phoney employee of the company. They might be getting only a couple of dollars a year, but the next thing that happens is that because that person then becomes an employee, free and concessional rates for travel overseas can be claimed for him. These free and concessional rates are sometimes worth tens of thousands of dollars. 
There is one case in this respect which I shall now bring to the attention of this Parliament. It affects a former member of this Parliament. It is a case for which I shall give details and which honourable members should keep in mind. There was a member of the present Government, who was then in Opposition, who was intimately connected with these semi-fraudulent Morosi companies. He was involved with a company known as Ethiopian Airlines with which Miss Morosi was connected. That member- he was not then a Minister; he was still in opposition; this occurred prior to 1972- arranged for his wife to be one of the phoney employees and as such she and her husband, who was a member of this Parliament, got concessions worth many thousands of dollars. Whether that was legal I do not know. Whether it was for or against the law I do not know. But in point of moral fact it was a fraud. This man's wife put her husband- he being a member of this Parliament- forward as her dependent and got concessions for travel abroad. I have some details of that here. I think I might instance a case where on 23 March - 
I agree with what the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly)  and the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  have been saying about the necessity to foster travel within the confines of Australia itself. Travel, so far as Australia is concerned, should be a 2-way affair. Naturally we want visitors to come to Australia and naturally Australians want to go abroad, but the foundation of the travel industry should be in Australia. I suppose that, with the exception of the honourable member for the Northern Territory and the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter),  I would know the north of Australia better than any person in this House. 
I understand the Minister 's motives. I feel, in all seriousness, that we should be paying more attention to the development of travel facilities in Australia. I am not saying for one moment that Australians should not go abroad, but what we should do is balance up our travel so that the amount spent by Australians overseas will be counterbalanced by the amount spent by people from overseas coming to Australia. 
We have tremendous advantages here, advantages of space and distance. There are things in Australia which are very much worth seeing for the world traveller. I agree entirely with the point of view put forward by the honourable member for Bradfield and the honourable member for the Northern Territory. I listened with interest to what the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  was saying about the origins of this Bill. I know the tremendous interest which he personally has been showing in this area. It is true that in 1972 before the change of government he was active in promoting the idea which has been taken up belatedly by the Government in this Bill. I think credit should be given to him for that. But I do not believe that this idea would have been coming forward had it not been that the Government knew very well the kind of fraud and corruption that was instanced in the chain of Morosi companies and which this Bill seems designed to overcome. At least the Government has learnt from its intimate association with these matters what should be done. For that some thanks should be given to the Government and perhaps even to the Morosi companies. The bad example may at least have been sufficient to spur the Government on to do what the honourable member for Griffith suggested in 1972 and which comes to fruition now in 1975. In general, of course this Bill should be supported. 
-I wish to raise one matter really by way of question. I do not have a view on it at the moment. I agree with the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart)  that the amendment he has moved to clause 3 is an improvement. I would certainly want to support it. I am wondering whether we should not perhaps even enlarge it a little and say: 'a bank approved by the Minister'. After all, this is a Bill which relates to tourism not only in Australia but also outside Australia. I am not quite clear whether what is proposed would be good or bad. I am simply asking the Minister whether he might consider- I am not pressing it- adding a further subclause to be called (c) which will provide 'a bank approved from time to time by the Minister'. I ask him in that respect: What would he like to do? 
Perhaps I have not explained my view to the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart).  I was asking particularly about overseas banks which are operating in Australia, for example, the Comptoir National d'Escompte de Paris. Would that bank be included in this Bill? After all, we are dealing with tourists who are coming from overseas. We are trying to induce them to come to Australia. I do not have a fixed view about this. I am asking the Minister whether such overseas banks which have branches in Sydney or Melbourne, for example, would come under this definition and, if not, whether they should. 
I move: 
After subclause ( 1 ), insert the following subclause(la) A licensed travel agent shall keep a register showing details of all concessional or free fares granted to his employees or their dependants on his application or in consequence of employment by him, and such register shall be open to inspection by persons authorised by the Board. 
I have moved this amendment because there is quite considerable corruption going on in the granting of free and concessional fares. No doubt that has resulted in the maintenance of high fares, and the public has had to pay for it. The matter is rather more important than that, because that corruption has at times extended into this Parliament. It has affected members of the present Government including a former Minister. I have tabled specific evidence which supports what I am saying. I have tabled copies of tickets issued by Pan American World Airways showing that a former senator received these concessions as a dependant of his wife who was getting what I can only describe as phoney employment when he was a private member of the Opposition. He also received these improper concessions when he was a Minister- the Attorney-General in point of fact- in this present Government. This is corruption going right to the top. That Minister gave to Miss Morosi, who was the vehicle for these concessions, considerable favours. For example, he gave employment to her; for no earthly reason he appointed her husband as a member of the Films Board of Review; he appointed her as a marriage celebrant; and he wrote a letter to the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant)  asking for favours for her in regard to a flat. 
I believe that in both respects we have seen only the tip of the iceberg. I am reliably informed that the tickets copies of which I have laid on the table of the House are only a small fraction of the tickets that were improperly issued to this private senator, to this Minister. If the full records, particularly the records from Qantas Airways Ltd, were to become available, very many more thousands of dollars worth of these improper favours would have been shown to be given - 
Motion ( by  Mr Daly)  put: 

 -Mr Speaker - 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  proposed: 
That the question be now put. 
The Government is corrupt and it is covering up corruption. 
-This Bill is, of course, ancillary to the Travel Agents Bill which was just considered. 
One of the dreadful things is that the Government in the debate on that Bill covered up what is undoubtedly corruption. 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  proposed: 
That the question be now put. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Keith Johnson)-  The question is that the question be put. Those of that opinion say 'aye', to the contrary 'no'. 
You are prepared to gag - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member will not speak while I am putting a question to the Committee. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment. 
Adoption of Report 
Motion (by  Mr Stewart)  proposed: 
That the report be adopted. 

 -Mr Speaker, under the provisions of - 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Report adopted. 

 - Mr Speaker - 
-In regard to these Bills, the Government is endeavouring to cover up corruption. 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 

 - Mr Speaker, I rise - 

 -Mr Speaker - 
Motion by  (Mr Daly)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
I  move: 
That the Speaker's ruling be dissented from. 

 -Mr Speaker, I raise a point of order arising out of yesterday's  Hansard  which has just come into my hands. I find that on 5 occasions there was a most grievous infringement of standing order 93, as is recorded in  Hansard  and as is obvious from the text of  Hansard.  Mr Speaker,  I know that you made this error in good faith and that you did not realise the inadvertent error on your part, but the text of  Hansard  shows absolutely definitely that there has been a breach of standing order 93.  Mr Speaker,  perhaps I could refresh your mind in regard to it. Standing order 93 reads: 
After any question has been proposed from the Chair, either in the House or in committee, a motion may be made by any Member, rising in his place, and without notice, and whether any other Member is addressing the Chair or not, 'That the question be now put', and such motion shall be put forthwith and decided without amendment or debate. 
On 5 occasions,  Sir, you  permitted the motion 'That the question be now put' to be moved before the matter had come from the Chair. I do not suggest for one moment,  Sir - 
 Mr Speaker,  I do not know at this present moment - 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Original question put: 
That the motion  (Mr Daly's)  be agreed to. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker - 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  put: 
That the question be now put. 

 -Mr Speaker- 

Motion (by  Mr Daly)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
1 ) What amount has been expended subsequent to 24 June 1975 under the authority of the Petroleum and Minerals Authority Act or in consequence of arrangements made under that Act; 
-I am very worried about some of the implications of this Bill and particularly the imprecision of certain parts of it. I refer to some of the definitions, particularly the definition of 'Aboriginal' in clause 3. This goes right to the root of the whole difficulty in regard to this Bill. It is a very complicated Bill and it is quite unbelievable that it is being pushed through the House in this fashion after the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Les Johnson)  had given us an assurance that there would be some months during which it could be debated and during which we could obtain the opinions of Aboriginal people. The violation of that assurance is very bad particularly because the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs wanted an opportunity to consider it and to consult the Aboriginal people. The defect of this Bill is that it tries to deal with all Aboriginal people in the same way and this is absolutely contrary to all the necessities of the situation. Under this legislation an Aboriginal means a person who is a member of the Aboriginal race of Australians. What does this mean? Is a man who is half Aboriginal a member of the Aboriginal race or is he a member of the European or some other race? If he is three-quarter European is he a member of the Aboriginal or the European race? 
When I was the Minister in charge of this portfolio for the purposes of administration I put in the definition that an Aboriginal was a person of full or part Aboriginal blood who himself claimed to be an Aboriginal and was acknowledged as such in the community with which he was associated. That is a definition which is quite applicable when one is talking about giving special benefits to disadvantaged people. It was put in for this reason- so that the benefits available under legislation would be available to the disadvantaged people who in many cases are probably not substantially Aboriginal at all. I adopted that definition in order to give disadvantaged people the benefits under the law, but it is not an appropriate definition for this kind of Bill at all. It is entirely inappropriate because what the Minister is saying in respect of the Aboriginal Councils and Associations Bill is quite correct if it is to apply to one kind of community and it is quite incorrect if it is to apply to another kind of community. I would think that there is going to be a backlash if it is said that a person who is one-sixteenth or one-thirty-second part Aboriginal, as will happen in future, is entitled to the full benefits of this legislation. There will be all sorts of inequities and indignations in the community. It is quite absurd in respect of a permanent Act of this character to think that all Aboriginals have to be treated in the same way. 
I know that in this Bill there are many things which are very good and will have full support but it is a great pity that in its attempts to do these things the Government has brought in a Bill- I think it was brought in with the very best of intentions- which in some respects is clumsy and will do more harm than good to the Aboriginal people. The Government has made a grave mistake because it is looking at the Aboriginal people as something which it can use and which the European or the white man can use and push about for their purposes. We know perfectly well that this is being done in the chamber today to meet the exigencies of the Government's procedure in the chamber. The Aboriginal people are being exploited and victimised here in this chamber today because they are being used as a vehicle - 
I have some difficulty about this legislation. I do not want to put a contrary view; I merely say that there are so many complexities in the legislation that it is a great pity that it is not being looked at. Clause 1 1 says: 
Where 10 adult Aboriginals living in a particular area desire that an Aboriginal council be formed in respect of that area - 
The word 'area' is defined simply as an area for which the council is established. That definition does not take us any further. Are we talking, as the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Les Johnson)  was talking a few moments ago, of an area like a reserve at Moree or are we talking about an area like the whole of Arnhem Land, Maningrida or Elcho Island? What does 'an area' mean? I hope that in this definition we are talking not entirely about geography but also about tribal affiliations. If one is talking of the Northern Territory, Central Australia or Cape York one is really concerned not with localities so much as with the tribal affiliations and the compatability of tribal groups. In nearly every one of these settlements there is more than one tribal group, but they are compatible groups. If one goes to Moree, Redfern or some town in Queensland one finds a quite different situation. The word 'area' may mean something else. In that case one cannot have any respect for the tribal affiliations because the tribal infrastructure has gone and one is dealing with an absolutely different situation. 
I come back to a proposition which was put by the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  a few moments ago when he suggested that the operation of this legislation be restricted for the time being to the Northern Territory so that we can see how it goes. Even in the Northern Territory the situation is different in different places and with different kinds of Aboriginal structures. This leads to another difficulty which is quite fundamental. I am not trying to criticise the Bill or the Government. What I am saying is that we are in a very complex situation which has not been adequately discussed with the Aboriginal communities concerned. It is quite wrong for us to be trying to impose a view on them. They are going to have an elected body, but in some ways the idea of one man one vote or equal vote equal value, if I may use that phrase, is absolutely foreign to the Aboriginal concept. Only a few months ago I was out with some Aboriginals in the centre of Australia discussing some of these matters. I think that we had enough common language on both sides to discuss them with understanding. The thing which shocked them most- I do not put it as being right or wrongwas that women should have the same kind of vote as men, because the idea that the woman and man are equal is absolutely foreign to the Aboriginal concept. This may be right or it may be wrong but what we are doing in this Bill is trying to impose on Aboriginals our values, with perhaps insensitivity in some cases. 
We assert to them that our values are right and their values are wrong. In a way this is an expression of what goes by the name of racism in its most acute form. We say to them: 'Your way of running your community is all rubbish. We are going to give each adult Aboriginal a vote and he is going to be the same as every other adult Aboriginal'. This may be right for our community. It may even be a kind of pattern which we- the superior race, or so we like to consider ourselves- should be imposing on other people, the lesser breeds without the law. But what we are proposing to do here is in a sense entirely unAboriginal. It is in contravention of what the Aboriginals think about themselves and what they want for themselves. I know the difficulties. I do not know how this matter can be approached except on the basis if universal suffrage. 
I am referring particularly to clause 12 which refers to the first vote which will be taken. I agree that, in clause 23, sub-clause (2) reads as follows: 
The Rules of an Aboriginal Council with respect to any matter may be based on Aboriginal custom. 
That is a very good provision and I entirely commend it. But I should like to see it redrafted to suggest that the rules may be based on the particular Aboriginal custom peculiar to the area. It is quite ridiculous to presuppose that Aboriginal customs are the same all over the place. My friend the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  knows that even in the Northern Territory Aboriginal customs in the north-east of Arnhem Land are quite different from those which obtain at Haasts Bluff, Papunya or somewhere else in the Centre. We talk about the Aboriginal race. Some people even talk about the Aboriginal language, I regret to say, not realising the complexity of the thing. The fact is that customs are different. Not only are Aboriginal customs different from ours but also as between various Aboriginal communities customs are quite different. 
I think that the intention of the legislation is excellent and the intention of the Minister is quite right and proper in stating that the rules of an Aboriginal council with respect to any matter may be based on Aboriginal custom. Perhaps the problem is a matter of drafting. We should be talking about the local Aboriginal custom or the Aboriginal custom which is proper to a particular tribal organisation. Of course, with contiguous clans these customs differ, but they come into the same kind of pattern. There would not be the same kind of difference between Oenpelli and Yirrkala as there would be between Yirrkala and Haasts Bluff, but there is always a certain amount of distinction. I would have preferred to see in the Bill an expression which did not confine us to geography but took some cognisance of the Aboriginal organisations within a geographical framework. As I said, I would have preferred to have seen explored some way of obtaining an initial Aboriginal consensus without putting the question to a vote where everybody is equal. I would be the first person to admit the difficulties of this. That is why I am so distressed, in a way, that we should be undertaking this exercise without due consideration. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Les Johnson)  was quite right when he said that we have not had an adequate opportunity to study this Bill. The Bill was brought down with the pledge from the Minister that it would lie on the table for some months and that there would be an opportunity to consult Aboriginal people in regard to it. Yesterday we learned that that pledge was to be broken. For that reason it has been sprung on us- it is a most complicated piece of legislation- without an adequate chance to study it. That is true. The Minister cannot deny it. He broke the pledge which was in his second reading speech and this legislation has been put on us without adequate study. As it happens, in the particular point which he raised the Minister was wrong because I was careful to refer to the initial meeting of a council and the initial meeting is governed by clause 22 of the Bill. The clause states that the question shall be decided by a majority of the votes, but the question of Aboriginal custom and so on, commendable as it is, does not come in there. I was careful when I spoke to refer to the initial meeting, but apparently the Minister either was not listening or did not understand. 
Having said that, let me come to another question altogether which arises under clause 30 of the Bill. Clause 30 relates to by-laws and to penalties. This, of course, has to be interwoven with some of the things that are provided for in another Bill which will be before us later on. One of the great things that we have to look at is the capacity on the part of Aborigines to exclude from their own area not merely Europeans but also Aboriginal people who are not conforming to their rules of the area or who are tribally incompatible with it. This is something which the Aborigines of Arnhem Land, of the north of Australia and of the centre of Australia require. They want command over their own territories according to Aboriginal custom. Aboriginal custom gives to the person in authority- call him the owner if you like- power to exclude people from the area. 
No Aboriginal would go into a tribal area without the permission of the true Aboriginal people in authority. It may be only a case of asking permission as we would ask permission before going into a person's house. We do not just walk into somebody's house without permission. We knock on the door and say 'May I come in?' The Aboriginal wants to have that same kind of authority over his own place. Maybe it is not a house; maybe it is a locality; but to him it is home and to him, in his eyes, he is the owner or the person in authority. We are not going to give that kind of authority to the Aborigines concerned. Apparently under another Bill which we will discuss later we will be talking about a northern land council and a central land council having overall authority to issue and revoke permits. This is an affront to the Aboriginal community and we have to do something about it while the going is good. Sub-clause (7) of clause 30 states: 
The by-laws may provide that any contravention of a by-law is an offence punishable, upon conviction, by a fine not exceeding $20. 
This is not, in most cases, the appropriate Aboriginal penalty. We should have some kind of concession to the Aboriginal customs of the area in this regard. I am only saying that the Aboriginal communities should be given authority over their own areas, and this I think we should be standing up for in this chamber. 
It worries me very much that this Bill, which I am sure has been drafted with the very best of intentions- I do not want to denigrate the intentions of the people who have drafted this Billwas not meant, as the Minister said- he has gone back on his word- to come into operation until the Aborigines had had an opportunity to study it and to tell us what they wanted in regard to it. This was stated in the Minister's own words in his own second reading speech. He knows it very well. Why only 3 weeks ago did he give the pledge from which he is now drawing back? Why did he deceive the House - 
I am only commenting, if I may,  Sir, on  what the Minister said a moment ago about my being vague in regard to this. I am vague and the reason is that I have not had an opportunity to study the Bill and I have not yet had an opportunity of going with the Bill and talking to some of the Aboriginal communities to find out what they think about the Bill. I am vague also because I am against the idea that we can have the same kind of legislation for an Aboriginal community in Redfern as we have for an Aboriginal community at Yirrkala. Of course I want time to have a look at this. I want time to consult Aboriginal people about it, as the Minister promised that I should have. The person who has gone back on his word is the Minister and he is responsible for the fact that we are now debating a Bill without adequate knowledge and without an adequate opportunity to find out the wishes of the Aboriginal people. I want to have a Bill not to satisfy the conscience of us in Parliament but a Bill which will be the best for the Aboriginal people, and it will not be the best for them unless they are consenting to it and unless they are saying themselves that it is what they want. Give them a chance to do this. Give them an opportunity to say what they want. 
I come back to clause 30. One of the things that the Aborigines will want- it is not provided for in clause 30 as it should be- is power for local groups to issue and withdraw permits to enter their areas. They do not want to give that power to a northern land council in Darwin or to a central land council in Alice Springs. They want the local group to be a local power and they are entitled to have the local power. They are entitled to be able to make by-laws and this should be provided under clause 30 of the Bill, and it is not. They should be entitled to make their own local by-laws for that purpose. 
Part III agreed to. 
Part IV- Incorporated Aboriginal Associationsby leave- taken as a whole, and agreed to. 
Part V- Investigation and Judicial Management of Aboriginal Corporations. 
-Let me just say that this Bill is being rushed through. Even if it were not rushed through we would not be in a position to offer detailed criticism because we have not had an opportunity to consult the Aborigines who should be our principals in this matter. I hope there will be a more careful look at this Bill before it becomes law. We should be approaching the Bill in a non-partisan manner. I am trying to do just that. I am sorry that the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Les Johnson)  is not allowing it to be done. 
Part V agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill and Title- by leave- taken as a whole, and agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
Leave granted for third reading to be moved forthwith. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker - 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  put: 
-I am looking now at the definitions of 'Aboriginal ' and 'adult Aboriginal' in clause 3. This legislation relates only to the Northern Territory and in the Northern Territory the distinction between the full-blood- or, I should say, the person who has been initiated tribally- and the person who has not been initiated tribally is very clear. I wonder whether we should make some alteration to this definition. I ask the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Les Johnson)  to consider this particularly because the tribal people in the Northern Territory resent considerably the halfbloods entering the Territory who claim to be full Aboriginals. I think that there is some force behind their contention that those adult persons who claim to be Aboriginals but have not been initiated in accordance with Aboriginal custom should not be considered to be Aboriginals. They resent very much the fact that we have this kind of superior attitude and say that our laws take precedence over those of the poor old boongs. That is a horrible attitude on our part. The fullblooded Aboriginals resent the fact that we consider these non-initiated persons to be Aboriginals in the same sense as they are. They say that to be an Aboriginal does not depend just on the colour of skin. The validity of the Aboriginal infrastructure has to be acknowledged, the rules have to be accepted and the initiations which are the fundamental part of Aboriginal society must be undergone. 
It is all very well for us to take a superior attitude and say we will not talk about this Aboriginal nonsense. That is a very bad attitude for us to be taking because when we are talking about Aboriginals we are talking surely about Aboriginal values. We should be making a distictioncertainly in the Northern Territory and perhaps in other parts of Australia too- between the Aboriginal who is a real Aboriginal, who is a member of his tribe, who conforms to the customs of his tribe, who is proud of his Aboriginality and the synthetic or phony Aboriginal, probably half-blood or less. Because the latter type of person has a superior formal education, is connected with the Government and is able to give handouts he has some kind of authority over other Aboriginals and they resent this. It seems to me that we should certainly define an Aboriginal as a person who is predominantly a member of the Aboriginal race and perhaps as a person who has been accepted in the community with which he is associated by reason of his conforming to its customs whatever they are. Further on the same clause refers to ' adult Aboriginals '. I do not think that an Aboriginal would consider another Aboriginal, especially male, an adult at the age of 1 8 years. That would be a very low age for an Aboriginal to be considered an adult member of the community. I think we are endeavouring in this Bill to impose upon them our values which are alien to their values. They certainly would not consider any Aboriginal to be an adult unless he had undergone the prescribed initiation ceremonies for his sex and his tribal origin. They would require this. They speak of man-making ceremonies. This is the ceremony which makes a child an adult member of the community. It is an affront to Aboriginals to ask them to accept as an adult somebody who has not undergone their own tribal initiation. 
One of the problems is that as we have had this Bill thrown at us we have not had a chance to draft proper amendments or to consult Aboriginal communities to find out what amendments they would consider right and proper. In point of fact we are just going to impose our own values willy-nilly on them. This is very wrong. There are many other things in the clauses which we have under consideration at present which I would like to follow up but I see that the honourable member for Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  is anxious to speak and I will defer to him. 
I am afraid that the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Les Johnson)  is entirely confused about this matter. He quoted with approval a definition which when I was the Minister-in-charge of Aboriginal affairs I think I originated and sanctioned. But it is not the definition in this Bill. He said: 'This is the definition we are going to use and it has stood the test of time' and so on. It is not the definition in this Bill. Let me recall to the Minister clause 3 of the Bill. It states:  'Aboriginal' means a person who is a member of the Aboriginal race of Australia. 
It does not say that that person claims to be an Aboriginal and it does not say that he is accepted as an Aboriginal by the community with which he is associated. These were the things which the 
Minister quoted with approval from this place only a couple of minutes ago. He said that this was the definition that had stood the test of time. But it is not the definition in this Bill. So he has confused the situation out of his own mouth. If he thinks that is the definition we should be using why has he not put it into the Bill? I put that straight to him. He said: 'This is what we want to do. This is the definition we use'. But it is not the definition in the Bill. This is an instance of the way in which this measure has been drafted- I am sure with good intentions. But it still needs a great deal of going over. It is a far reaching measure. 
It is a little bit different in 2 regards which run in opposite directions. Firstly, this is a measure which applies only to the Northern Territory. In the Northern Territory the feeling about the nontribal Aborigine is much stronger than it is in the southern States of Australia. The second point is that this Bill talks about things being done in perpetuity. Will a definition which may have stood the test of time for a few years and which may be workable today be the right definition for the future? The Bill is not talking about a transitory point; it is making a provision for land in perpetuity. If we mean anything we should be getting our definitions right at the start because otherwise in future generations- not immediately- we will get 2 classes of citizens and a backlash between the two and we will have no acceptable definition on which to stand. It is no use saying that we do not want to be racists. This Bill is rightly giving benefits on a racist basis. That is what it is meant to do, and it being that kind of Bill - 
I do know something about this because the honourable member might know that I had a great deal to do with the passing of the referendum and I have tried to do what I can over many years for the Aboriginal people. I have a genuine and non-political interest in this matter and I am trying to follow it only in a genuine way. In this Bill we are making arrangements about land which will be arrangements in perpetuity and we are not starting off by defining properly the people who should be benefiting from those arrangements. If we are to talk about traditional land, surely we will talk about traditional Aboriginal groups. If they are going to develop and change in the future- they will change- at least let us get clear in our minds of whom we are talking. 
We are not talking about the carpet baggers who will be coming from the south and trying to exploit the full-blooded Aborigines because by this Bill we are giving, very properly, tremendous material advantages to a group of full-blooded Aborigines in the Northern Territory. Do honourable members think that the carpet baggers who call themselves Aborigines, but who are really three-quarters or more of European origin, will not go to the Northern Territory to try to cash in? Of course they will. It is important and vital that our starting definitions should be correct. I do not flatter myself that my eloquence can move the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. I do not flatter myself that in this House there will be any amendments, but we have to get this Bill off on a right and proper foundation and we are starting with a rotten foundation. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Clauses 4 to 20- by leave- taken together. 
When I look at clause 5, 1 am struck by the tremendous powers inherent in the Commissioner. It is perfectly true, as the Minister would know, that the Commissioner does not have executive authority. He advises the Minister who performs the executive act. But in practice the Commissioner will have an immense power because the Minister, whoever the Minister is, will be inclined to follow his advices. Sub-clause (d) of clause 5 states:  to advise the Minister in connexion with . . .-the making of recommendations for the granting of land under sections 46, 47 . . . 
If one looks at those sections, one sees that they relate both to Crown land and to land where somebody other than the Crown has an interest. Perhaps I should not have said Crown land at the start; I should have said 'Crown land where nobody else has an interest'. In the Northern Territory most of the land is held under some kind of lease. These leases run out at various times. I suppose that the average time they have to run is 15 or 20 years or something of this character. But it may well happen that claims are laid to them. If so, one may find that the whole of the pastoral industry of the Northern Territory will be without a future. It could be this way or it might not. We really have given the Commissioner no guidelines as to how he is to make his recommendations. The honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  of course was perfectly right when he drew attention to the nebulous nature of the guidelines that we have set for the Commissioner. It may be that  Mr Justice  Ward or whoever the Commissioner may be from time to time, may carry out his functions in a way which does not upset the major economy of the Northern Territory. But at least this House has the duty, when it arranges for the appointment of a commissioner in that way, to give him firm guidelines. At the present moment we are saying to the commissioner: 'Look, you go out and without directions from the House, you,  Mr Commissioner,  will in point of fact make the laws on which the whole of the future of the Northern Territory will depend'. This House should not put that kind of authority into another person's hands, whether it be the Minister's hands or the Commissioner's hands. I will not canvass the question of the relationship between the authority of the House of Representatives and the authority of the council in Darwin. But what we are doing now is giving to the Minister and his adviser in perpetuity the power to destroy the whole of the economic structure of the Northern Territory without coming back either to this House or to the council in Darwin. 
Do we realise the full enormity of what is inherent in these Bills? Do we realise that we are talking about virtually the whole of the land in the Northern Territory? I think that I may have been among the first persons to claim that the Aboriginal of the Northern Territory should have a fair deal. I think that everybody on both sides of this chamber would agree with that. But is this Committee really of the opinion that the whole of the Northern Territory economy should be placed at the executive fingers of this or some future Minister and his adviser, the Commissioner, who will be acting completely without guidelines? Virtually they can effectively take people's property away, take their future away and destroy an industry by executive act. I ask Government supporters not to get me wrong and to say that I am trying to stop the Aborigines having something in the future or in the present. What I am saying is that the horrid arbitrariness of this Bill needs to be exposed in this chamber. It is not right that we should be putting this kind of authority in the hands of some capricious Minister now or in the future. It is very bad for a parliament or a council in Darwin to be giving away control over the whole of the economy. 
There is another point which is a separate and very difficult one concerning which at present I do not know the answer. I have not had time to consider it. How are we really to allocate these reserves among the various Aboriginal claimants? There is no question as to these reserves. These reserves undoubtedly will be added to and should be added to. Nothing will be taken away from them. Nothing should be taken away. These are Aboriginal lands but to which Aboriginals should they be given? These are not easy questions to answer because the concepts of ownership are not uniform among the Aboriginal communities even in the Northern Territory. I fear that thinking on this ground has been perverted a little by the fact that most of the experience has been in regard to Aboriginal claims in Arnhem Land- particularly in the north-eastern part of Arnhem Land, where the Yirrkala question has bulked so large. It is true that the concept of ownership in Arnhem Land would be somewhat different from the concept of ownership in the centre of Australia, where there are very large Aboriginal reserves. The reason probably stems from the nature of the land. The land in the Arnhem Land area is comparatively rich and only a relatively small area is needed for the support of a family or a clan; but in the centre of Australia the land is very poor and barren and many square miles- tens or hundreds of square miles- are needed for the support of even a single family. So the Aboriginal concept of land ownership is rather different. The honourable member for Wentworth would have had very considerable experience of this concept in the Yirrkala and Arnhem Land area. He may have had some experience of the situation in the centre of Australia, but he will not have had such extensive experience. There are very difficult practical problems to be solved. I am not trying to put a solution to the Committee. What I am saying is that we have not had a chance to consider what the proper solution should be. 
Might we have a little shush? 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  put: 
I hope that even at the last moment, the Government will see fit to accept in a non-partisan manner this motion which is before it. It is a motion to put the Bill before the Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs on which the Government has the numbers. It is chaired, and might I say in my opinion it is chaired very well, by the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross)  who is a member of the Government Party. I do not think that the Government can put up the argument that by requesting that this Bill be put to a committee, we are doing something inimical to Government policy. We only want the Bill to be as good as possible. 
This is a most complex and difficult Bill. It will set for a long time to come the whole economic future of the Northern Territory. Even more importantly perhaps, it will be pouring into a mould the future of the Aboriginal people of the Northern Territory. It has been said in this House quite recently that the Government is trying to set up a new social order for the Aboriginal people. I do not like those words myself; I would rather say that we are trying to find a way in which we can use the existing infrastructure of Aboriginal society in order to help the Aboriginal people to become part of the new world in which they and we ourselves must live so that we can have some kind of better community of interests between us and them. 
If these things are as complicated as Government supporters say they are- in this respect I agree entirely with Government supportersthen we should have time to look at these things. Why was it that only a little while ago the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Les Johnson)  was telling us that we would have months in which to look at this Bill and to obtain Aboriginal ideas and reactions? It is perfectly true that we have had the Woodward Report. It is perfectly true that we have had Aborigines coming before a commission and giving their points of view. But they have not had this detailed document and it has not been explained to them how and to what extent this embodies or develops from the Woodward Report. Indeed they have not had an opportunity of saying whether or not they think that the Woodward Report really sets out their views and really follows their interests. 
I am certainly worried by the proposal to create the 2 land councils. I know that there is provision in the Bill for extra councils to be created and for the areas to be split. But this is not always practical politics as those who are looking at New Guinea at the present moment might remember because once one forms the mould and pours the material in, it tends to set. It may set in a way which is not conformable with the real desires of the Aboriginal people concerned. I am not trying to reject the concept; I would agree that the concept has been put forward with goodwill and indeed with some skill. I would agree that it conforms very largely to the Woodward Report. But this is not the end of the matter. 
The honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  has proposed that the matter go to the Committee for consideration so that the interested people who include the Aborigines and our own council in Darwin can have an opportunity of putting their views before that Committee. The honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  would know far better than I would that this Bill is making a fundamental change to the whole of the Northern Territory. It may be a good change. I am not saying that it is a bad change, but it is a change that kicks away the props of the last 60 or 70 years that have underlaid the whole of the structure of the Northern Territory. 
I ask Government supporters not to put words into my mouth and say that I think that this is a bad thing that is being done. I am not saying that at the present moment. I am saying that here we have something which is of tremendously far reaching importance and we have not had an opportunity to consider it. The Bill is being rushed through this House without that opportunity. I am only asking the Government, even at this late stage, to put the matter to its own standing committeethe committee of this House where it has a majority. Let us have a look at the Bill and let us try to improve it. Let us try to find out how other people react to it and whether they have a point of view that is worth considering. When we are doing something absolutely far reaching like this, it is wrong for the Government to throw it at our heads, to impute that we have to understand every clause and implication of it  de nouveau  and then ask us to pass it. 
I know that luckily this Parliament has a bicameral system and there will be an opportunity for consideration in another place. But why should we abrogate all of our own proper functions? Surely we have a proper function here. The Woodward Commission heard a lot of evidence. It made recommendations which have not been adequately considered. I am not saying that they are right or they are wrong; I am simply saying that we are jumping in the dark and that we should not be doing so. I ask the Government, even at this late stage, to forget its improper pride and do what it should have done from the start, that is, let the Standing Committee look at this matter and report back to this House in due course after it has received representations from all of the interested people, particularly from the Aboriginal communities 

 -Mr Speaker - 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  put: 
That the business of the day be called on. 
This clause troubles me particularly because it relates to something which I shall be discussing when we deal with clause 29. We are giving land councils authority, but unhappily we are not determining that the members of the land councils who exercise this authority shall be fullblood Aboriginals, traditionally oriented. If we talk about tradition, we realise that this is the nature of the thing. I am worried that the halfblood carpetbaggers from the south who are particularly associated with the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Les Johnson)  and the former Minister for Aboriginal Affairs should get control of these things. I am shocked at the fact that these people are participating and pretending that they are traditional people. They are participating in the north in some of these land councils. I think that this is a shocking thing. If we want to do anything about this matter it is to preserve for the real Aboriginals their real rights. It is quite phoney for people who have some admixture of Aboriginal blood to go round pretending that they have the full traditional sanction of the Aboriginals. Surely here we are trying to do something for the real Aboriginals. Although the Minister may say that the Aboriginals will choose the members of the land council we all know, as practical politicians, some of the ways in which things can be manipulated and produce results which are not satisfactory. 
The other thing that I should like to say is that I am very sorry that this Bill is not being referred back in its detail to Aboriginals in the Northern Territory for their advice. We are altogether too simplistic when we talk about ownership. Ownership in the Aboriginal sense may be a shared ownership. Some may have some kinds of rights over land; some another kind of right over the land. Some may be guardians; some may be, in our sense perhaps, owners. Some may have hunting rights; some may have other rights such as ceremonial rights. The Minister knows perfectly well that the ceremonies are usually divided between 2 moieties; the people responsible for performing the ceremony are not the same as the people who have the responsibility for guarding it. This kind of thing is right through the whole complex structure of Aboriginal society. I am all in favour of the principle that this should be entirely and exclusively Aboriginal. But I am not in favour of this kind of simplistic idea that we can take Aboriginal rights which are complex and just put them into our simple Procrustean bed of ownership. It is not like that at all. Anybody who knows anything about the way in which these Aboriginal rights work as between themselves would not be committing this kind of simplistic mistake which is in a way an outrage against real Aboriginality. 
-I will be very brief. The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Les Johnson)  was good enough to say I had no constructive suggestions. That is not true. I do not presume myself to speak for the Aboriginal people. I would rather have them speak to me and try to carry out their wishes. The trouble is that the way this Bill has been brought in, contrary to the pledges that had previously been given by the Minister, there is going to be no time to consult them. I should like to make a very small suggestion, which I make very tentatively because I have not had the opportunity to talk to Aboriginal people in regard to it, in relation to clause 24 (b). It reads: 
in relation to each group of traditional Aboriginal owners, a description of the boundaries of the land of which they are such owners. 
I would like to add words something like 'and in relation to each group the traditional rights which they exercise over such land'. The great trouble about this is that we are trying to impose on Aboriginal society our idea of an exclusive ownership whereas Aboriginal society in regard to each tract of land has overlapping ownerships. 
I agree that this Bill has been brought forward not without skill and certainly with good intentions, but I believe we are by this Bill unhappily failing a little because we are not looking at the complexities of the situation and asking Aboriginals to give us advice as how best to assure to them their traditional rights. It is all very well to say we can do this and we can fix this up some time in the future. Tell that to the sheep on its way out to the abattoirs. 
-l would like to get some Aboriginal reactions to this clause. I do not think it right that we should pass this sort of clause without kno wing what the Aboriginals think about it. It is a very wide clause because in sub-clause ( 1 ) it puts the whole of the method of choice of membership of the Land Council in the hands of the Minister. It is true that the members shall be Aboriginals chosen by Aboriginals living in the area of the Land Council. If we do what I do not think we should do, and that is to have one big land council for the whole of the northern part of the Northern Territory, a northern land council, it probably will be dominated by Darwin and the real traditional people will not have a proper say in it, or perhaps they will not have a proper say unless the Ministeran arbitrary Minister and not necessarily the present Minister for Aboriginal Affairs but some future Minister - makes an arbitrary determination. 
It is not good enough to leave the wording loose in the present way. The Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant)  said a few moments ago that it was the people who had no traditional orientation who were the most articulate and naturally tended to overbear and take charge. This does happen. It is very wrong and it is very un-Aboriginal. What we really are creating is an instrument for the destruction of Aboriginal traditions although perhaps we are doing it with the best of intentions. The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs was good enough to upbraid me a little earlier for being out of date and to say that I did not realise what was being done with the philologists, the anthropologists and the site investigators. I am up to date. I am still very much in touch with this machine. I, more than anybody else, was responsible for its creation. To me it is a matter of major interest and I keep in touch with it,  Mr Minister,  funnily enough. I do not take kindly to this semi-literate attack on anybody who disagrees with the Minister. 
We now are talking about traditional land rights. As the Minister reminded us a few moments ago when referring back to the definition, we are talking about the traditional Aboriginal owners with their spiritual affiliations. We are going to put them into the hands of so-called Aboriginals because a man who is one-sixteenth 
Aboriginal could still be considered an Aboriginal although he may be a man who has never been initiated and does not understand the traditions of the tribe. As the Minister for the Capital Territory said a few moments ago, such a man may be more articulate. He comes to the top and gets control of these traditional things which are valuable. There are the positive Aboriginal things that we want to preserve or to give to the Aboriginals, such as the traditional way of living for those who would choose it. We are doing things, perhaps with the best intentions in the world, which are going to liquidate and destroy this body of tradition, and I am not for it. 
I feel very strongly about clause 29 and the membership of these land councils. Heaven knows that I do not want to see a big land council with a big area. I would rather see many more smaller land councils. We must ensure that the people on the land councils, whoever they are, really are traditionally oriented Aboriginals, otherwise we will make a mockery of all the things we said we were out to do in this Bill. We are talking about spiritual values. Do you want to hand over your church, with its spiritual values, to a gang of atheists because they happen to be more articulate and better organised? Of course not. What we want to do is to keep for these people their own things and to help them to keep them for themselves. 
I think it is utterly wrong that we have not gone up to them, talked to them and told them what we were proposing to do. We should have asked them whether it suited them and we should have tried to find out from them, having fully explained what is involved, what they want. I am afraid that there always is a tendency among Aboriginal men to try, out of politeness, to agree with you whatever you say. They say: 'Yes, that is a good suggestion' and they will not think that at all. You have to be a little patient and give them a chance to express themselves. They do not always do this at the first run. We are proposing to put the preservation of their traditional rights in the hands of Aboriginals whom nominally they will choose themselves but who actually, because they are more articulate and live in Darwin and there is this big overall thing, will be people that they really would not want. These people are to be chosen in a way which the Minister may determine from time to time. It simply is not good enough. It will lead to the destruction of the traditional thing which we say we are out to preserve. 
I ask honourable members to look back at the functions of the Council as set out in clause 23. Unhappily, by reason of the closure, we were not allowed to debate that clause in this Parliament. It was passed without debate. Honourable members will see how extensive those functions are. The first function of the people who will form the Council whose constitutional membership we are now arranging, will be to administer Aboriginal land. That is a very wide constitutional phrase although it may have some restriction in regard to land trusts and so on. If we have just this one power to administer land that goes a very great way. Then there is the power to issue and revoke. 
-I would not like to make any thoughtful suggestion here until we have consulted the Aboriginal people concerned. We might think of proceeding by making it clear that we are talking about traditionally oriented Aborigines. These land councils will be talking about land which is allotted to Aborigines because of their traditional association with it. That is what the councils are for. That being so, one would want to make certain that the people who were on these councils were traditionally oriented themselves and were selected by traditionally oriented Aborigines. 
The Northern Land Council, in numbers will be dominated by Darwin Aborigines, many of whom are no longer traditionally oriented. Many of them have abandoned their traditional ways. Some of them are full bloods, some of them are not. Many of the Aborigines in Darwin have repudiated or lost their links with their traditional lives. The situation in Arnhem Land is quite different and of course it is not as clear cut as I have put. There is a constant circulation of Aborigines between Arnhem Land and Darwin and some of those in Darwin maintain their full traditional links. Under this clause we may easily find that the Northern Land Council will be dominated by non-traditional Aborigines. 
I will not name names. I think it is invidious, but the honourable member for the Northern Territory, who has great experience in these matters, will know exactly the kind of thing I have in mind and will be able to give, perhaps not to the House but to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs,  (Mr Les Johnson),  instances of it. I can make a constructive suggestion. I am not prepared to be definite about it until I have had a chance to talk to the Aborigines concerned because, after all, what we should be doing is trying to bring forward a piece of legislation that suits the purposes not of the 
Government, the Opposition or the Europeans, but the purposes of the Aborigines. In order to do that we need to consult the Aborigines and this is the one thing that we are not allowed to do. 
I want to direct attention even more to the last point made by the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  which I think goes to the heart of this situation. Let us look at clause 40 which is now before us. The first function of a Land Trust it provides is to hold title. That is a nominal thing. But the next provision is that the Land Trust is to exercise its powers as owner of land. That seems fair and reasonable enough until one looks at sub-paragraph (2). I shall read in full paragraph (2) so the Committee can understand what it is about. It states: 
A Land Trust - 
That is, the owner, the person who has the title-  shall not exercise its functions - 
Its functions of ownership-  in relation to land held by it except in accordance with a direction given to it by the Land Council for the area in which the land is situated; and (b) where such a direction is given to it- shall take action in accordance with that direction. 
The plain words of this would appear to meanperhaps the Minister would explain to me otherwisethat the owner is only the nominal owner. This is sham from beginning to end. The real owner, the real person who exercises the functions of ownership, who can give directions such as: ' You do not do this ' or' You do do this ' is not the nominal owner at all. He is only a sham owner. The real party who gives the direction is this large centralised land council which may have very little traditional orientation upon it at all. This seems to me to be quite monstrous. It is a denial of rights to the local Aborigines. 
I said earlier that even the concept of ownership, in the Aboriginal sense, is complex. We have a piece of land. This is our traditional European title. This is the kind of European title we are now going to try to impose on the Aboriginal structure. We are the owners of that land. To our way of thinking we have fee simple, we are the owner of the freehold, and that is more or less the end of it unless we come under zoning restrictions or something of that character. But to an Aboriginal, it is quite different. They have hunting rights, foraging rights, and even ceremonial rights. These are things which the Bill says, and says rightly, are of such importance. Even the ceremonial rights are divided. There can be a ceremony in which perhaps two different clans or more than that- the division may go much wider than the clans- are entitled to participate. In any particular ceremony- and the ceremony is important- the owners are probably of a different moiety to the managers and the ceremony itself is divided. We get all these complexities which the Aborigines themselves will resolve if left to themselves but they are inimical to our idea of ownership. Having done that, having imposed our idea of simple ownership on the complex Aboriginal structure, we now deny our own concept of ownership. We say: 'You, the owner of title, are only a nominal sham owner. You will do what the land council tells you to do and you will not do anything that the land council does not tell you to do'. This is the impact of sub-clause 2 of clause 40. It is quite ridiculous when we think of it. 
If honourable members had been to the Northern Territory they would know how divided these Aboriginal people are. They do not think of themselves as one Aboriginal race. They think of themselves as members of this tribe or that tribe. Somebody living in east Arnhem Land does not want to be ordered about by somebody in Darwin. Darwin is as far away from east Arnhem Land as is Melbourne from Sydney. It is not just a question of distance. There are differences which go beyond distance. Even Arnhem Land itself splits into two main areas roughly at the line of the Liverpool River where the big ceremonies on one side are different from the big ceremonies on the other. But even that line of demarcation is not sharp and we get a synthetic settlement like Maningrida which is not a clans based settlement but just a synthetic European creation which runs right across these lines of division. Here we are saying what the Aborigines will do with their land, what ceremonies they will perform on it, what they should do in an economic sense, whether they will have fishing, hunting, agriculture, or pastoral pursuits. They will be determined for the Aborigines by a land council. 
This is centralism in excelsis because although the area of northern Arnhem Land is a good deal smaller than the area of Australia, nevertheless Aboriginal horizons are nearer at hand than are our horizons. The people of Caledon Bay will not for a moment see themselves as part of a Darwin based community. By this Bill they will be run from a northern land council in Darwin which will go right over to Port Keats. Port Keats people have nothing to do with people even in west Arnhem Land, let alone people in east Arnhem Land. The area covered will go past Katherine and the people in Katherine think quite differently. If we go a little further south nearer to the desert people we find that they think quite differently again. 
I would think that the inclusion of clause 40 (2) really takes away from Aboriginals all that they themselves mean by land rights. I think this is being done to the Aboriginals without their knowing what it is all about. They have no idea of what is in this Bill. There has not been time even to have copies of the Bill circulated to these distant communities, let alone to have it explained to them and mulled over by them so that they can talk it over and decide what they want. 
-Time, but communication also. I do not believe for one moment that they all want the same kind of thing. These are different people. Heaven only knows that the Northern Territory is smaller than Australia and even for the Northern Territory uniform legislation of this character is an outrage. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Les Johnson)  will forgive me, I am sure, if I point out to him that the quotations he made from the Woodward Report were quite irrelevant because they did not refer to the matter under consideration. The quotations he made- I am not saying that there are not other parts of the report which he could use- were with regard to the establishment of land trusts. What I was speaking of was not the establishment of land trusts but clause 40 (2) which related to the authority of the Land Council over the land trusts. The quotations the Minister made were bearing out not his contention but mine. 
The Minister apparently did not realise what  Mr Justice  Woodward was saying in this regard. I am not saying that there are not other quotations in the report that the Minister could use. I am simply drawing attention to the quotations which the Minister used a few moments ago in the House and which showed- I am afraid I have to say this- that he does not understand what he is talking about because the quotations he made related to the setting up of land trusts. We are not talking about the setting up of land trusts. We are talking about something quite different- the authority of the land councils over the land trust. 
This is utterly at variance with the quotations that the Minister made from the Woodward report a few moments ago. I do not accept the contention that everything that  Mr Justice  Woodward said really is in line with Aboriginal wishes. I know that he is a sympathetic and very skilled man. I know that he did make an attempt to find out what the Aborigines wanted. 
However, let me give a concrete instance of the kind of things that happened. It happened not in relation to  Mr Justice  Woodward but in relation to an administrator of the Northern Territory who knew Aborigines and was very sympathetic towards them. He went to Yirrkala when the agreements with the aluminium company, Nabalco Pty Ltd, were being negotiated and he obtained from the Aborigines consent to what was going to be done to them at that place. He explained the situation to them. He got their consent. They gave it. 
Afterwards when the Aborigines saw what they had given consent to- they did not realise and did not understand the implications- they were appalled. One only has to go to Yirrkala and talk to them to know the kind of stupefaction they had. They did not realise what they had consented to. Here we have something which I am sure that Aborigines- if their consent has been got formally- do not understand what they have consented to. They believe that they are consenting to land trusts in the sense that the Minister spoke about a moment ago when he quoted from  Mr Justice  Woodhouse's report. But what they are being asked to consent to in this Bill is something quite different. What they are being asked to consent to is that the land trusts instead of being sovereign shall be a sham, because they will do exactly what this centralised land council will tell them to do. That is the impact of subclause (2) of clause 40 which should not be in the Bill at all in its present form. 
I say to the Minister- I hope I am able to instruct him- that this kind of clause should not be in the Bill. If there is any proper function for a land council it is to resolve disputes between land trusts. It is not its proper function to tell a land trust exactly what it should do or what it is not to do. Its proper function is to resolve disputes. The Minister said that we could fix this up in the future if we wanted to. There is provision in the 
Bill for the establishment of other land councils and for the division of the existing land councils. The Minister says that because there is that provision the matter will be all right. What I say is somewhat different. We should not start with something bad and subsequently change it. Surely we know that the change which is in the Bill is desirable. The Bill has machinery to make changes in the future. Why do we not make the change in the Bill now before we set up these centralised land councils? I make two observations in regard to them. These centralised land councils are too big in area. They should be split up. Their real functions are to determine demarcation disputes between land trusts, not to tell the land trusts how they are to behave, what they are to do and what they are not to do. I suggest to the Minister that we should, most certainly in another place, see that subclause (2) of clause 40 is changed drastically. We should certainly ensure that, instead of setting up two big land councils, at the beginning we set up more than two and that they are much smaller. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Progress reported. 

 -Mr Speaker - 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
-Has the attention of the Minister for Foreign Affairs been directed to reports from Paris regarding a communist bloodbath in Cambodia, with detailed accounts, alleged, of executions, mass killings and other atrocities? Can he tell me what representation Australia has in Cambodia or what sources of information it would have to enable the truth of these accounts to be checked? 
Mine is not a maiden speech. Nevertheless I feel the embarrassment which a maiden  speaker  may well feel because on this occasion, although I am supporting the Address-in-Reply, I cannot support it unreservedly. I propose to make certain points in that regard. Before I do so may I advert to the things that were said a moment ago by the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Melbourne Pons  (Mr Crean)?  I think that what he said was wrong. He failed to recognise the fact that the Australian Senate was modelled on the United States Senate rather than on the House of Lords. In other respects what he said does not bear analysis, but at least he is entitled to say it and nobody could cavil at that. 
However, one would cavil at the attitude of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  in this regard which is, I believe, outrageous and unpardonable. It is outrageous because it strikes at the root of the whole of our constitutional system. He is trying to overturn the Australian democracy because he wants to be a kind of glorified  president.  I think it is wrong for him to come into this House and say things which he knows to be untrue. Let me make just 2 observations in regard to that- one trite and one which I do not think has been made before. The trite observation is this: Only a few years ago when he was once before Leader of the Opposition he embraced in this House, verbatim, the principles which he now finds so morally repugnant. This is a sham act. That is a trite observation. It has been made before. 
However, let me make a new point. He talks of the supremacy of this House but what he means is the supremacy of the Australian Labor Party Caucus if Labor is the Government, because under his Caucus rules it is the Caucus, not the members of this House, that makes decisions. In that Caucus the Labor senators have exactly the same vote as the members of this House. So when he talks of the supremacy of this House and puts himself forward as its defender he is acting a lie, because what happens in his Caucus is that he gives the Labor senators exactly the same vote as the members of this House. So one can see that we are now dealing with a man who has become the enemy of Australia because he is peddling lies. 
-Should I say that he is showing himself, for his own personal gain, the enemy of the Australian people. Let me come to the matters of substance in the GovernorGeneral's Speech. I fully endorse the objectives behind it- the objectives of enterprise and freedom, the objectives of employment, the objectives of beating inflation, the objectives of cutting out waste from the Public Service and reducing the impact of government upon the private citizen. These are all things which I thoroughly endorse and hope by my conduct to further. But I am afraid that some of the detailed approaches of the Government are likely to be counterproductive and to militate against the very sound objectives which I believe the Government should follow and which it says it wants to follow. 
Let us look at our position and see what we would like to do. First, we would like to reduce taxation. We would like to do this in 2 ways. We would like immediately to index income tax. After all, this is something which was mentioned in the Governor-General's Speech. He said: 

 Major reforms will be implemented to protect individuals from being subjected to massive unlegislated  tax increases. 
That is a very worthy objective. It is a legislative crime to impose on individuals unlegislated massive tax increases. That is what happens in times of inflation with an unindexed income tax. What do we say? We are putting out what we should do and yet we say: 'For the time being we will condone part of the crime. We will have these massive unlegislated tax impositions. They are not as bad as they were. We are half repentant, but we will still pull in some of the swag from the crime. ' That is not good enough. 
There is an even more important point. We want to get rid of inflation. Of course we do, and one of the things that is contributing to inflation is the incidence of government charges. Some of them are State charges, but State charges really emanate from here because it is from our policy that the necessity to raise revenue is placed on the States. I think particularly of payroll tax. We want to cut the cost of production and thereby reduce and eliminate inflation. To get rid of some of these indirect charges is probably the most effective way in which we can do it. 
If we want a plan to reduce inflation we will have to consider such things as the petrol tax in New South Wales, payroll tax, excessive rail freights and fares, and high electricity charges. All these charges of which I have given only examples have to be considered. If we could only reduce them we would be making a real counterinflationary move. Some people at the hearing of the national wage case thought that the inflationary effect of these taxes should be removed from the computation of the index. What is sauce for the goose is sauce for the gander. After all, the counter-inflationary effect of taking off these charges is one of the methods by which we could and should control inflation. This is not something which we can do time and time again. It has to be a once-for-all move but it is part of a blockbusting plan which would stop the inflationary spiral. We have to get our forces together and stop inflation because we are not stopping it the way we are going. 
We should be reducing taxation in the Federal Budget but also giving subventions to the States to allow them to reduce taxation and charges in a way which would cut away the roots of tins inflationary spiral. It is a good thing to cut out waste and duplication and to bring back some discipline to public spending. This is something that we should all applaud, but while we are doing that should we not also, moderately and not to any extravagant extent, be expanding productive public works which would take up the slack in employment and by so increasing the turnover in private industry reduce the costs of private industry. What we want to do is get private industry going again. Do we help the brickworkers and the timber workers if we cut down building activity? Do we help the manufacturers of steel and concrete if we cut back our engineering works? I remember in the time of the McMahon Government the shudder that went through this House when it was said that over the then coming Christmas there could be over 100 000 unemployed. Now we have got to the stage where we are almost accepting a quarter of a million unemployed, not just over Christmas but as the normal thing. I am frightened that in respect of employment we will be on a downward spiral if we are not very careful. From the point of view of the Australian economy how much does a worker produce? He has his wages, of course, but if at the same time he is bringing into production plant which is there and would otherwise remain idle, the value of his production is greater than the monetary wage. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
-Before the suspension of the sitting for dinner I was pointing out that our Liberal principles expressed in the Governor-General's Speech should in present circumstances encourage us to reduce taxation and at the same time to increase the productive public works. Why do we not do it? The answer the Treasury gives is that this would increase what it calls the Budget deficit, which it now puts at $4.5 billion. There are some things that should be said about this. The first thing to be said is that in the proper sense of the term, the kind of sense that is used in the Budgets of most other countries, there is no Budget deficit. Let  U3  have this quite plain. The present figure of $4.5 billion is struck after debiting $4.8 billion of capital works against revenue. This is said to be the deficit. In real accounting terms and in the kind of terms that are used in the budgets of most other countries that deficit does not exist. 
There is, however, something quite different, and that is a liquidity problem- a cash flow problem, if one likes to call it that. We have a deficiency of cash in kitty because we are using money for capital works. The deficit is purely a figment of the Treasury's imagination. It is not a deficit at all; it is something quite different. It is a liquidity problem and as such it should be dealt with by quite different measures from those used to deal with a proper deficit. 
I say this: The Treasury is frightened that if we increase this cash deficiency- or deficit, call it what you like- there will be an increase in inflation. I put it to the House that this is nonsense. The deficit or the extra cash deficiency could be mopped up by additional loans. If those are not available it could be mopped up by the central bank credit which is available to the Government. Some people will say: 'If you put this extra credit into the system you will increase the money supply'. That is true, but it is only half the problem. If" the money supply were increased in this way, as it would be, it would be quite easy for the Treasury to decrease the money supply correspondingly by raising what are known as the statutory reserve deposits, the SRDs, of the trading banks or in other types of open market operation. The technical problems of reducing the money supply to compensate for the extra money put in by a capital works program or by reduction of taxation are not by any means insoluble. I put it to the House that these are the proper lines on which a Liberal government should be thinking. 
 I would be the first person to agree that if we had full utilisation of our resources of labour, plant and materials the capital works program should be cut down to the bone because we would not want to compete with private enterprise for scarce resources- of course not. But as the present moment by increasing public works or decreasing taxation we would help private enterprise, not compete with it for resources which at present are in surplus and unused. This is the nub of the problem. 
We get from Treasury all sorts of gobbledegook saying that we cannot do this because we would increase inflation, increase the money supply and so on. What Treasury says is half true, but it is only half the statement of the real facts. If we want to we can always contract the money supply to the extent to which it is increased by an additional so-called 'Budget deficit'. If the Budget were in real deficit, if without capital works we were overspending to any great extent, I would feel a great deal of sympathy with the Treasury view. But this is not the case at the moment. This practice in public accounts in almost unique to Australia. Other countries do not do it. We have muddled up our capital and our current accounts and we get this kind of nonsense result. We have no reason to fear the deficit but we should have to take, and we can take, proper measures to cure any overliquidity caused by over-expenditure on capital works. 
I have said that the advice that the Treasury has been giving is bad. I know that there is a long history of this and I know that there is a reason for it. This is part of a 25-year-long battle by the Treasury to increase its own empire. This is part of the way in which it has constrained the States and driven the State budgets to desperation. This has been a deliberate long term policy in the Treasury. I had experience of this when I was in the Ministry. When I brought forward a proposal which the Treasury did not like it brought to Cabinet estimates of expenditure which were as much as 100 per cent wrong. Treasury did not worry about doing this and sometimes it persuaded Cabinet. It is not just entrenched stupidity from Treasury, it is a piece of deliberate empire building. Treasury is the sacred cow of Australian politics and it is time that somebody said to it: 'Go and get inseminated'. 
I have undertaken to speak for only 5 minutes because I understand the Bill must go through. Therefore I say very briefly something which I hope to be able to say at greater length, with greater consideration, at a later stage. It seems to me that this Bill is the first step to right some of the wrongs which all of the States have suffered for a long time. It is also, I hope, the first step to right the particular wrongs which New South Wales has suffered. I believe this fact must be faced: New South Wales can no longer carry the rest of the States on its back. We are the oldest and the largest State. We had the first development and for years past we have been contributing to the other States. The time has now come for this to stop. 
New South Wales can no longer afford to carry the rest of the States on its back. I ask honourable members to look at page 144 of Budget Paper No. 7 published by the previous Government and which sets out the Labor Party's proposals for the financial year 1975-76. I ask honourable members to look at the last line on that page. The figures are not complete but even these partial figures will show the main effect. For this year, under Labor's plans, New South Wales was to receive from the general purposes fund $289 per head, but the Australian average was $50 per head greater at $339. That is nearly $250m which New South Wales is worse off. That is $2 50m which New South Wales cannot any longer afford. 
We have carried Australia on our backs for long enough. It is time that some of the small States grew up and started to carry their own burdens. They are living on New South Wales. I go, for example, to Perth. In Perth there are great systems of freeways constructed with New South Wales money which has been granted to Western Australia because it has a tremendous area. The money is spent in Perth, while Sydney is congested in a way in which Perth never was. 
Sydney cannot pay for Perth any longer. It is time that this stopped. The New South Wales Government is valiantly struggling against this situation. It has imposed taxes and charges which other States do not have to bear. 
If New South Wales had this $250m it could take off such things as the very heavy petrol tax, which is an iniquitous tax, and which is carried by New South Wales because is has been forced on New South Wales, not by the New South Wales Government but because the Commonwealth has taken New South Wales money and has spent it in other States. It is time this stopped. The New South Wales Government is bearing the unpopularity of iniquitous charges which it has had to impose because it has been contributing to all the other States. I said I would speak for only 5 minutes. I have taken that time, so I will stop. I will be returning to this theme later and developing it in greater detail. New South Wales has to get a fair go from the rest of Australia. 
-The Loan Bill 1976 is being supported by both sides of the House. In introducing it the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  spoke mainly of the deficit and its impact on Government policy. Before I come to that main theme. I wish to make 2 subsidiary points. Firstly, the Treasurer said: 
The borrowings . . . have to be within the limit of borrowing authority approved for the Commonwealth by the Loan Council. 
At its meeting last June the Loan Council approved a program for the Commonwealth. That program is secret. I have not been able to find out what it was. It has never been published. I am told that it has not been revealed. I put a question on notice about it which so far has not been answered. I should like to know what that program is. 
The second point I make is in regard to the National Welfare Fund which was mentioned by my friend the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns).  I do not think there is any real practical effect of this transfer. It does have a dress impact in that it may enable the deficit to be manipulated a little and to be shown to be a little less. There is very little of a practical nature in that. But I think that on the considerations which were advanced initially, I think with some sense, by the late  Mr Chifley  when he was Treasurer and set up this separate fund, although it has not had practical import in recent times I am a little regretful that it is being abolished now. I hope to return to that when I have more time. 
I return to the main theme which the Treasurer adumbrated in opening this debate. The Opposition created the economic mess, and it is a real economic mess. The Opposition has shown now that it has learnt nothing and it wants to forget much. But I think we can dismiss the Opposition which by its incompetence put us into this trouble. I think we can all agree with the Government 's objectives of economic recovery, full employment, greater productivity, the elimination of waste and extravagance from the Budget, the encouragement of private enterprise and giving private enterprise a greater share of the available resources of the Australian economic machine. We should all agree with that. But I must say that I for one disagree, at least to some extent, with the methods that the Government is taking towards these very desirable objectives. I feel that to some extent those methods that the Government has adopted may be counterproductive and will not help to achieve the very desirable things that the Government is aiming at. There is as yet, no substance in recovery. There was no recovery under the Labor Government. This theory that if the Labor Party had been voted back into government it would have brought the Australian economy back is a figment of the imagination. Naturally there was some surge of confidence after 13 December. This has brought confidence and is bringing a certain degree of recovery but so far there is insufficient substance in the recovery. I for one fear that under the present economic policy of the Government that recovery may be retarded and may even be reversed to some extent. 
I am not crying doom and disaster, but I am saying that in my book it is not good enough that the Australian economy should be left for long in the shambles in which the Labor Party put it. I say that as yet there is no substance in the recovery. We want to increase consumer spending. But do we encourage consumer spending by saying, as we do, that we need so much sacrifice and restraint and that things have to be cut down? There is the capacity for consumer spending in the savings bank accounts and the other moneys at call which the ultimate consumers have. One hopes that these moneys would not be allowed to go into flash inflation but could be spent gradually so that the economy would consume more and give more employment and better conditions to business throughout Australia. When that consumer spending increase occurs- I say this in passing- it is essential that we do not allow it to be extinguished in a flood of imports. Quick and effective tariff action will be necessary when consumer spending in Australia starts to go up, otherwise the flood of imports will extinguish the fires of recovery here in Australia. I will not have time to develop that theme now but I think that it is an essential part of the recovery that we want. 
We need 2 things now. We need an immediate tax reduction and we need some kind of stimulation of the economy through public spending directed mainly towards helping private enterprise to expand. We should stimulate private enterprise through valuable public works. There are many of those which could be carried out. They are all preferable to spending $500m a year as we are spending now on unemployment benefit which is a hardship to the recipients and a loss to the productive capacity of the economy. These are the things that we want to do. A taxation reduction should have the 2 facets of an immediate full acceptance of indexation of income tax and a plan to reduce inflation in a planned way by lessening indirect Government charges, therefore helping to keep the cost of living down. This should be done in a planned way as the proper and constructive approach to our inflationary troubles. 
What stands in the way of doing this? It is one thing and one thing only- the obsession with the deficit. People will say: 'How can you reduce taxation? That will increase the deficit.' They say: How can you carry out valuable public works? That will increase the deficit' and they say: 'The deficit now stands at this record of $4.5 billion'. I would not cavil at the fact that if we take into account the way in which the accounts are presented the deficit would be $4.5 billion. I am not going to argue about that. What I am arguing about is that the way in which the accounts are presented is fallacious, is misleading us and is at the root of a great deal of our troubles. The deficit has been struck after including $4.8 billion of capital works as current expenditure. I have a table which shows in detail from Budget Papers numbers 7 and 12 how that figure is computed. I seek leave to have the table incorporated in Hansard. 
-I too support these Bills. The most important part of them is the transfer of $ 1,000m worth of debts from the States to the Commonwealth. This simply ratifies something which was done by a previous Liberal-Country Party Government as long ago as 1970. It is merely formalising an arrangement which was made then. This is a good thing but I do not think it is enough because what has happened over the past 4 or 5 decades is that the burden of debt has been transferred from the Commonwealth to the States. This has happened through various devices. It is a long history and I have no intention of traversing it today. I simply say that the Commonwealth Budget, by reason of its nature, has allowed surpluses to be accumulated and transferred to the States, making the States debtors for the amounts that they have been given in the past. I am not talking of the immediate present. What has happened is that the States have become bound to the chariot wheels of the Federal Treasury. This to some extent, but not to a sufficient extent, is to be rectified by the Bill before us. 
The Bill also simplifies the National Debt Sinking Fund without making very substantial amendments to it. The Sinking Fund, as honourable members would know, since 1923 has paid back over 6 billion dollars of Australian and State debts. I think last year an amount of the order of $340m was paid back through the Sinking Fund. The Bill in front of us does not alter very much the impact. It simplifies the arrangements. The procedural changes which it makes in the Loan Council are welcome but of no importance. 
Tonight I want to concentrate on clause 4 of the Bill. The first part of clause 4 states: 
The Consolidated Revenue Fund is appropriated to the extent necessary for the purpose of carrying out the Financial Agreement on the pan of the Commonwealth. 
I want to say something about the operation of that Financial Agreement since its inception in 1927 or 1928. Before that time the States and the Commonwealth borrowed independently and approached the market independently, and to a great extent drew their funds from overseas by way of loan. The 1928 Loan Council put an end to this independent operation but it also put an end to borrowing by the Australian governments overseas because coincidental with the establishment of the Loan Council something else happened. There was a world-wide depression. It may be remembered that  Sir Otto  Niemeyer came to Australia, castigated us about the amount of debt we had accumulated and raised a tremendous pother which unfortunately gained more credence then than it deserved. But there was a kind of sanctimonious reaction to this. The Scullin Government participated in it and it was taken up by the successors of the Scullin Government. This sanctimoniousness was to the effect that borrowing overseas by governments was utterly wrong. From that time forward, with the exception of the anomalous period during the Second World War, we have virtually not borrowed overseas. In point of fact our net overseas indebtedness in total has probably diminished, partly by reason of the Sinking Fund operations and partly by reason of certain private transactions which are not fully documented but the nature of which we know something about. Since that time private overseas firms coming into Australia in place of bringing their own capital from their own resources, have in point of fact drawn resources from the Australian banking system, that is, drawn their resources from the savings of the Australian people. This has caused a complete change in the whole of our financial structure. 
This was correlated with something else which occurred. From 1927-28 until the time of the War our overseas trade and invisibles, put together and called current account, were more or less in balance. The discrepancies were relatively small. I put aside the period of the War, when the whole matter of financial transactions was quite anomalous. I then come to the period from the early 1950s up to this month. During that time we generated a very big negative balance on current account taking into account our trade and our invisible commitments for capital, insurance, freight, tourism and one thing and another. I have here a table which has been compiled by the statistical service of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Library. I ask permission to have it incorporated in  Hansard. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) What loan programs for the Commonwealth and each State were approved for 1975-76 at the Loan Council meeting which took place in June 1975. 
Have any changes subsequently been made in these programs; if so, what changes. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have your indulgence on a point of misrepresentation. 
-Yes. The Leader of the Opposition was good enough to refer, quite correctly, to the view I took in the House in 1951 that Australian broadcasting should be under Australian control. However, he went on to state incorrectly that the Labor Party supported this view. It opposed it in the House at the time for its own purposes. 
I am afraid it is true that the Labor Government struck Australia like cyclone Tracy struck Darwin. It left a great deal of cleaning up to be done in the housing field and in other fields. I can only hope that the present Government will show a little more resolution and skill in cleaning up the housing mess than the Labor Government exhibited in cleaning up the effects of cyclone Tracy in Darwin. I listened with some attention to what was said by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  and the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson).  I hope that they will not take it offensively if I say that they miss their speech writers. It is true of them and of other front benchers in the former Labor Government that they do not speak as well now as they did when they had departmental officers writing their speeches for them. 
I also listened with a great deal of attention to what the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  had to say. I think that he put before the House matters which are well worth serious consideration. Of course, he does have some particular expertise in this field. What he said about the comparative conditions of Queensland and New South Wales in relation to those of other parts of Australia and the reasons for their difficulties should be engaging the attention of the Government and engaging its sympathetic consideration in terms of future policy. 
The States Grants (Housing Assistance) Bill which is before us deals predominantly with what is known as welfare housing. Welfare housing is important. I doubt whether it is as important as the preliminary statistics would indicate. There are large backlogs of applications for welfare housing, of course. Many of the people who submitted those applications, it will be found on examination, are already well housed and are asking really not so much for new housing as for cheaper housing. It may be that many of them- I think it will be the majority of them- do merit that special consideration and that cheaper housing. But not all of them are in that category. 
Welfare housing is only a part of housing; housing is only a part of the building industry; and the building industry is only one section of the general Australian economy. Yet all of these things have to be looked at together. We have to see welfare housing, which is the subject matter of this Bill, in relation to the whole of the building industry. I think it is worth while mentioning to the House that in point of general activity the program for this year, which was set down initially by the Labor Government, of course, is not much bigger than the program that was set down in 1972-73 by the McMahon Government. It is bigger in money terms because of the rise in the cost of building during that period, but in terms of actual industrial activity in the building industry it is not much greater, if indeed it be greater at all. What has happened is that in the first half of this financial year more than half of the program, in terms of activity, has been committed. So unless there is some additional subvention- it appears that there is not going to be some additional subvention- the level of activity in the second half of the financial year is likely to be significantly less than that in the first half of the financial year, and that is a matter of some significance for the industry as a whole. 
I want to deal with the position of the industry as a whole, not in terms of figures, because I do not have time at the present moment to do that. I hope I shall have a chance to deal with it in terms of exact figures at some future date. In the meantime, let me deal with it in terms of generalities. The building industry is sick, and it is sick as an aftermath of the maladministration of the previous Government, as well as for other causes. However, it is sick primarily as a result of past maladministration. There is in prospect very little activity in the form of commercial building, whether it be of offices or of factories. There is still in the pipeline a good bit of residual activity in these fields, but it is tapering off rapidly. By the end of May it is likely that there will be not so much in the pipeline and by the end of September there will be very much less. Apart from possible government contracts, for which the documentation has been fully drawn up- the contracts have been suspended and kept on icethe industry will take a long time to start up again. Government contracts can come fairly quickly through the pipeline; private contracts cannot because of the shift of costs, the shift of finance and the lack of final documentation. So one must reach the conclusion that from September onwards the non-dwelling section of the industry will face a very considerable decline. That can be alleviated only by government activity. 
The housing industry also is not nearly so buoyant as the statistics quoted would indicate. Commencements are not likely to keep pace with approvals, and all commencements may not even be carried forward to completion. There is a tremendous jam in finance, and that is likely to continue. The honourable member for Lilley, I think very rightly, drew attention to the particular circumstances in New South Wales and Queensland of the financial impediments which would make activity in those States somewhat less than that in the other States of Australia. In Queensland the latest troubles with the building societies only a few days ago, even though those troubles have been overcome to some extent, will undoubtedly adversely affect the rate of building commencements in Queensland. For that reason, and for other reasons which the honourable member for Lilley specified and which deserve detailed study by the Government, Queensland should receive special help. 
So should New South Wales, because in New South Wales the housing industry has over the past few months been at a far more depressed level than is the average in Australia. That is due, I think very largely, to an old historical accident, because the evil that men do in politics sometimes lives after them for generations and decades. I believe that the fact that the housing situation in New South Wales is worse than in other 
States stems very largely from something that happened in 1930, and that is the collapse of the Government Savings Bank of New South Wales as a result of the Lang policies in those days. That is something which echoes on and on. In New South Wales we had our independent, very large savings bank which mobilised funds in New South Wales and used them for the purposes of New South Wales. When Lang, who in his little way was as disastrous as the cyclone Tracy of just a few months ago- I refer to the present Federal Opposition when it was in government in Canberra- allowed the Government Savings Bank to be destroyed it was taken over by the Commonwealth Savings Bank. The Commonwealth Savings Bank has been unable to give to New South Wales the same degree of preference as the old Government Savings Bank would have given. 
That should be contrasted with the position in Victoria. Victoria was more fortunate because it was able to maintain its savings bank. It did not have the Lang disaster of the depression years and it was able to maintain its own savings bank. So in Victoria the Victorian Savings Bank, very rightly, properly and understandably, looks to the interests of the Victorian people. That is its business, and nobody blames it for carrying out its own proper business. In Victoria there is access to the funds of the State Savings Bank as well as to the funds of the Commonwealth Savings Bank. I know that if one goes to the Commonwealth Savings Bank the management says that it gives preference to New South Wales because in New South Wales it is carrying out a double function. I know that it will be said that in New South Wales the Rural Bank has been promoted to take up some of the functions of the old savings bank. But, still and all, the position is that financially, since the depression of the 1930s- that is, for 45 years- New South Wales has been at a disadvantage and the disaster of the Lang regime echoes on and on through the decades. If there is one lesson which should be learnt from this, it is the electoral imprudence of ever letting the Labor Party remain in power. New South Wales still suffers from this and it is one of the main reasons why in 1975-76 the housing position is so much worse in New South Wales than in other States. 
It very largely echoes back to what happened in the 1930s. I agree with my honourable friend, the honourable member for Reid, that this is not the sole reason, but it probably is the main reason. I suggest that the 
Commonwealth Bank, the Commonwealth Savings Bank in particular, should give a much greater degree to preference to New South Wales, realising that in that State it is carrying out the functions which in Victoria are carried out by the State Savings Bank. Let me repeat that I do not criticise in any way the activities of the State Savings Bank of Victoria; it does properly what it is meant to do for Victorians. 
As for the present position of the building industry, as I think I said a moment ago, we rely too much on what I call historical statistics. I refer to them as being historical because when we get them they are months or quarters out of date. It is important that we look much more to the current statistics and that we have much more up to date figures. I do not think that the Treasury analysis is statistically competent. I believe that we have to have more up to date and alive people in the Treasury and that we should not be bemused by the Treasury as this Government and its predecessor very often have been bemused by the use of historical statistics; that is, out of date statistics. 
Finally, I want to make one point on which I think the Opposition and I may find ourselves in agreement. Interest rates are far too high. I regret the policy of the recent Labor Government which forced interest rates up. I regret that the policy of the present Government has not yet forced interest rates further down. This Government did inherit a tremendous interest rate structure. With the present balance of our international accounts, we do not need to maintain in Australia a high interest rate structure for the purpose of keeping foreign funds. This may have been important in the past, but I do not think it is important today. We can get all interest rates down if we have a concerted drive to do so. The gap between the deposit rate of interest and the advance rate of interest will have to be maintained and the deposit rate of interest must come down with the advance rate of interest. This, of itself, will be economically good because it will reduce the present undue tendency to place savings sterilely in bank accounts. 
There is a technical problem associated with the growth of what is sometimes defined as the money supply when deposits are included in that definition. That is a very bad definition; but it is being used currently, so I adopt it. One of the reasons why this is happening is that interest rates are too high. If we can reduce both deposit and advance rates we shall be helping the tendency to consume. We do not need an immense surge forward in consumption, because that would be dangerous and bad; but we do want to get consumption moving forward gradually and properly. If we can get interest rates down we will be helping the housing industry, not only in the welfare sector with which this Bill is concerned but also in the general sector with which the Government is, and should be, concerned. A big attack upon the interest rate structure is essential for a revival in non-welfare housing. I commend this Bill. I hope that the Government's current obsession with the mythical deficit will not preclude in the future a further advance to the States for welfare housing which will enable at least the current level of real activity- I do not speak of activity in terms of money- to be maintained and, I hope, even increased. 
I support these fertiliser Bills because of the vital role they play in the survival of Australian agricultural and pastoral industries. I believe that anybody who looks at this matter as a whole would not think otherwise. Our farmers have had a bad couple of years. We depend upon them and we want them to survive and to be prosperous in the future. The soils of Australia lack phosphorous and their fertility depends very largely upon keeping up the supply of superphosphate. The supply does not have to be kept up every year because, as honourable members will know, the bank of superphosphate which remains in the ground has some effect on crops grown during seasons following its application. In Australia a great deal of superphosphate is expended on pastures and some on areas used to grow grain. For the world it is more important that superphosphate be looked upon as helping the grain production. The general rule of thumb is that one tonne of superphosphate produces 5 tonnes extra of grain, and that is one of the most important statistics that one has to keep in mind when looking at world food production. 
I support this measure, but, for a reason which I shall give, I believe it is only a temporary measure. The reason is this: The supplies of phosphate rock upon which Australia is dependent are not very great and will not last for very long. We draw our phosphate rock from 3 sources- Nauru, Ocean Island and Christmas Island. The Ocean Island deposits are about worked out; there is not much more to come. 
I thank the honourable member; that is what I am going to talk about in a moment. The deposits at Nauru are being sold at world prices. All of those deposits are not available to Australia and they will not last for long. We draw our supplies from Christmas Island at production cost, but unhappily the available phosphate on Christmas Island is also fairly limited, and one would not think of it lasting more than 15 or at the most 20 years. Perhaps it will last rather less than that because as the Nauru sources dry up we will become more dependent on Christmas Island, as New Zealand also will be dependent. So it looks like a bleak future. 
Unhappily we have to look elsewhere, but happily we have in Australia an alternative supply of phosphate rock from which superphosphate is manufactured. That is something with which I have been particularly concerned. Only about seven or eight weeks ago I was having a particular look at that field, which I believe is the key to the future of Australian agriculture. If we deal prudently and resolutely with the phosphate deposits in the Duchess and Mount Isa area then I believe that we will have for the Australian farmer for all the foreseeable future superphosphate at a price significantly below that at which it is available to other agriculturalists. It is one of the natural advantages which I believe will play a significant part in the future of the Australian farmer. I would say that every person who wants to see the Australian farmer become prosperous, not just for this year but over the decades to come, would think of this subsidy as being one which is necessary but temporary and would be turning his energies to the phosphate deposits in the Mount Isa area and using them as the basis for cheap superphosphate for the Australian farmer for the foreseeable future. 
As honourable members would know, phosphate rock used to be fairly cheap. Then in about January 1974 a price hike started which was very much like the price hike on oil. In this case it came through the cartel in North Africa. The raising of the very significant North African price was followed by a similar raising of the price in Florida in America; and those are the main sources of world phosphate. Phosphate rock prices multiplied by four and were in the order of $60 and $70 a tonne. Recently they have fallen, and it is not quite clear at what level they stand now because discounts of various characters are being given. They are probably down in the order of $40 to $45 a tonne. For reasons which I will not have a chance to elaborate upon, because time will beat me, I believe that in the future demand will be such as to cause them to rise again. Although there is a the present moment a surplus of capacity in the world, the increase in the world population is such that phosphorous will be needed for food production. Although applications of superphosphate can be withheld for a year or two without significantly decreasing out-turn, it cannot be withheld for very long. I think the present excess of capacity is going to last only a few years and that then we will get high prices again. 
I want to talk about the Duchess deposits and the Lady Annie deposits. One lies near Duchess, near Mount Isa, and the other is on the other side of Mount Isa. Their known reserves are something of the order of 2000 million tons and represent many hundred years of consumption in Australia. The grade of those deposits is about half that of the island deposits. I think it would be fair to say that in terms of island rock they are around the 1 100 million ton or 1200 million ton mark. But even that is a lot of phosphate and it will see out many generations. There is no reason to think that other phosphate will not be found eventually in Australia. Superphosphate from those deposits can be produced very cheaply. At Duchess there are some 30 million tons of what is known as shipping grade which can be used without beneficiation or treatment. The remainder will require treatment either by flotation or some other process. 
The nub of the matter is that that rock has to be brought to the coast for shipping to the factories which make it into superphosphate for the Australian farmers. It is some 600 miles, or a little less, from Duchess to the coast at Townsville. This project will depend on rail freight. I have had a look at that railway. I took an opportunity to ride on the engine when I went there, and to talk to the engineers and the technical men at the top as well as the men working on the lines. That line as it is now will not carry a big volume of traffic. There is talk of bringing out a million tons a year. I suppose that amount could be brought over the line but it could not be done at a cheap cost. 
If that volume of freight is to be carried over that line at a cheap cost we will have to do what has been done to the iron ore lines in Western Australia. We will have to build a decent line. I know that the Mount Isa line was rehabilitated a decade or so ago. In fact I was a member of the committee that looked at that matter at the time. What was done then for the transport of urea, about 500 000 tons a year in each direction, was quite inadequate for the bulk handling that is necessary if we are to have cheap freight and to use those phosphate deposits to sustain Australian farmers. In some places the line needs heavier rails and new culverts. Nearly all of it needs reballasting and there is a lot of resleepering to be done. It needs a different signalling system and new crossing loops. It needs new rolling stock. Some of that rolling stock is being built under an agreement made with Broken Hill South Ltd which is getting ready to work the deposits. In fact it is starting to work them now. 
At Townsville 3 things have to be done. The railway line has to be deviated as it enters the town and a new bridge has to be built over the Ross River. Entry to the town now would be impossible for long trains. The third thing to be done is to rehabilitate the port. This program is essential for the prosperity of the Australian farmers and it will cost in the order of $ 100m, perhaps a little more, for the line and the rolling stock. This expenditure could be undertaken now and the results would be profitable and reproductive in every sense. 
I am not opposing the present subsidy; I support it. But much more important than this subsidy for the future of the Australian farmers is the work on that line and the development of those deposits as quickly as possible. Freight need not be a big consideration. If we have a really efficient line, such as the iron ore lines in Western Australia, we can bring that phosphate rock from Duchess to Townsville at a cost of $4 or $5 a ton, and that is small potatoes when compared with the world price of phosphate today. I will not say what the costs of production are but they arc comparatively small because this is an open cut operation. Even if we have to beneficiate the rock, as we will have to do after the first 30 million tons or so of shipping grade arc exhausted, the costs will not be very great, although they will be appreciable. We will be able to deliver phosphate at Townsville at a quite reasonable cost. 
I admit that shipping from Townsville under Australian conditions will be costly. We would have to consider the proper handling of bulk rock at Townsville in order to reduce these costs and to get the rock at the lowest possible price to the Australian factories where superphosphate is made. Surely it is not beyond our capacity to think of this as a co-ordinated operation. I believe that in practice the policy of the past Government, but not of this Government, has been wrong. We have been trying to throw all the costs on to the producing company. This docs not reduce the profits of the producing company because if it is to expand capital funds it puts up the price. It is reasonable for it to do so. However the consequence is that the whole process is slowed down because it is difficult for a producing company to find $100m, which eventually has to be found, for the upgrading of the line. Because the producing company has to of bear all the cost of the infrastructure we are slowing down the process of getting this project under way and ultimately increasing the price of superphosphate to Australian farmers. That is what we do not want to do. We want Australian farmers to have superphosphate available to them for the foreseeable future at a cost, on the farm, which is significantly below the cost of superphosphate on farms in other parts of the world. This is one of the ways in which the prosperity of Australian farmers can be permanently based. 
I come back always to the first point: That whereas this subsidy, necessary as it is and supported as it is, is only a temporary measure because the phosphatic rock in the islands will not last for long, up near Mount Isa we have the mineral possibilities by means of which Australian farmers can have for the future a permanent price advantage over competing farmers in other parts of the world. 
I have said that for the railway, we need perhaps $100m, and for other capital costs, which properly fall on the company, perhaps another $70m or $80m. But I do not think that the company should be asked to bear the entire cost of the infrastructure. We are giving a subsidy on superphosphate; that is good and proper, but it would be much better if we could give a subsidy for the capital expenditure which would give permanently cheap phosphate rock for the future. 
I see that my time is running out but I mention that in addition to what is given to the Australian farmer, there is enough rock there for us to go into the export business without in any way prejudicing the future of the Australian farmer. Naturally we would go into the export business at a world price. I have looked at this and I believe that there is a significant underestimate of the potential demand for superphosphate in South East Asia and round about. So far as is known- I emphasise those words- there is no comparable deposit available in this Pacific basin, and for that reason Australia will also have a world advantage. 
I think there are basically 2 reasons why the demand for superphosphate in Asia is going to increase. The first is the increase in population, which is driving the farmers to the more marginal lands and to the use of the green revolution new grains which require more fertilisers. The second is the progressive abandonment by Asia of the practice of putting nightsoil back on the paddy fields which for milennia has been the way in which the soil's fertility and phosphorous content has been maintained. So I believe that we are going to find not just a gradual increase in the Asian demand for phosphate rock, but a quantum jump. I believe that here Australia has a tremendous advantage and that the profits which can be derived from this can well be used to keep permanently cheap the supply of superphosphate to the Australian farmer in places where our soils need it predominantly. I wish I had the time to develop this theme further, but one of the things I hope to do in this Parliament is to follow this particular matter. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Has the Minister's attention been directed to the fact that last 
December the seventh meeting of the Polish Communist Party decided to force certain changes in the Polish Constitution? Did those changes come into effect last February and do they further restrict the freedoms of the Polish people and make the foreign policy of Poland even more subservient to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics? Has the Government expressed any concern about those violations of human rights to either the Polish authorities or the U.S.S.R., which is the real instigator of this outrage? 
-For long I have thought that the country was well rid of the honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  as Prime Minister but never have I thought this more than this afternoon. I believe that the speech he has made was one of the most disgraceful that has ever come from the leader of a party in opposition. If the Leader of the Opposition believes that what he said was true, why did he say it? He must know that if it was true he was compounding any trouble that might have been created. He knows perfectly well that, if he believes what he was saying, he was saying things which are inimical to the interests of Australia as a whole. This is something which no honest and sincere man would have done. We know that the honourable member for Werriwa is a very vain man. He thinks only of his own importance- his own interests. Whether rightly or wrongly, he will pursue those interests even if it means hitting Australia in the face. That man is not fit to lead a Party or even fit to sit in this Parliament. The  Deputy  Prime Minister, the Minister for National Resources  (Mr Anthony)  said nothing about Japan. He made some remarks which I shall analyse in a moment, but he did not mention Japan. If it was doing some harm to Australia's relations with Japan, why does the honourable member for Werriwa bring it into court now? He must know that if he really believes what he is saying, he is hurting Australia. Every second word in his speech was 'Japan''Japan' 'Japan'. He was trying to make the trouble that he pretended he was alleviating. This is the action of a man who is an enemy of Australia because he puts his own vanity in front - 
I withdraw that,  Sir. The  Leader of the Opposition is a man who has behaved like an enemy of Australia because he has put his own vanity in front of the interests of Australia. I have looked at the remarks of the  Deputy  Prime Minister and they do not bear the implications which treacherously the honourable member for Werriwa has tried to put on them. 
I withdraw the remark,  Sir. 

 -Yes, Mr Speaker. The honourable member for Werriwa has put on these remarks implications which they do not bear. I want to put this matter in perspective by saying something about Australia's uranium resources. The enormity of these and the responsibility for them does not seem to have struck home as yet in the country. We are talking primarily about the resources on the Alligator River. They are not by any means our only resources but they are the ones that really are in consideration at the present moment. There are 4 main discoveries in that area. There is Nabarlek, Ranger, Pancontinental and Noranda. Those four are all open cut propositions. They can be developed very quickly indeed. In point of fact, the speed at which they can be developed depends entirely on the treatment plant and not on the mine itself. The mine itself can produce any amount of ore if the treatment plant is there. 
Officially these mines have between them something like 350 000 tons of yellow cake. Those who have been onto the held as I have and have seen the thing and have talked to the people on the field know that prospecting even in these 4 mines is quite incomplete, and that in those mines it would be very unlikely if the resources were not double the officially published figures. But if one looks at the field, one knows that it has not been one-tenth prospected. One knows that probably the most valuable ground has not even been looked at by competent geologists as yet. It would be statistically almost incredible if many more mines in that field did not turn up. In other words, Australia's resources of uranium are to be measured not in hundreds of thousands of tons but in millions of tons from that one field alone. There is no reason to think that that is the only field in Australia. It may be that other fields comparable to the Alligator River field will be found in other parts of the world. One can only say that they have not been found yet. This is a resource which I suppose is probably the most valuable mineral field in the world and is even rivalling South Africa 's Rand. 
As I have said, the uranium can be produced quickly. The bottleneck is not in the mines; the bottleneck is in the erection of a treatment plant and the processing of the uranium. Let us look at this for a moment in terms of value. The spot price at the present moment is about US$40 a lb-in round figures about US$80,000 a ton. If we are talking about 1 million tons, we are talking about US$80 billion. I ask honourable members to just get their noughts right. We are talking about US$80 billion. Even if we are talking about one-third of that, which is the proved resources at the moment, we are still talking in terms of about US$25 billion. This is something which entirely changes the whole economic picture for Australia. This is greater than our other exports have ever been. In this there is the possibility of raising the standards of living of all the Australian people. This is as important to Australia as oil is to Arabia. It can transform the whole of our Australian economy. This is what we are talking about. 
I have no doubt that the  Deputy  Prime Minister has full knowledge of these things. I have no doubt that he himself realises the extreme gravity of the situation. The world will be hungry for energy. As far as we can see in the future, the energy will come from uranium. At present in the uranium field, Australia is pre-eminent throughout the world. There is nothing like this as yet discovered anywhere in the world. It may well be that at some future time, in some other country, something similar will turn up. All one can say is that it has not happened yet. I can well understand how the  Deputy  Prime Minister would say. 'Australia has a responsibility to develop this uranium and to make it available quickly to the world at the time when the world will need it'. As I have said, uranium is not only a great resourcea tremendous resource- but it is a resource which can be developed very quickly indeed. It is only the treatment plant and not the mine which is the bottleneck on production. I believe that the  Deputy  Prime Minister has done a service by bringing to the attention of the Australian people the importance of this tremendous resource. 

 Mr E. G. WHITLAM (Werriwa-Leader of the Opposition)-  Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Another mineral that I referred to particularly in my discussions in Japan,  Mr President,  was uranium. 
Uranium did arise in the Japanese context as did every other mineral that the right honourable gentleman mentioned in his speech. 

 - Mr Speaker - 

 Mr ANTHONY (Richmond-Deputy Prime Minister)- The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  based his whole speech today on the question of Australia being threatened by overseas countries and tried to make out that I was referring to Japan when talking about the use of force. That was the basis of his argument. In the context of my remarks about security Japan was never mentioned and was never intended to be mentioned. I was talking about the total global situation and mankind as a whole. The honourable member knows it. But he deliberately tried to misrepresent the position for his own cheap political benefit. 

 Mr WENTWORTH (Mackellar)-Mr  Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation on the same point, and I stand by what I said. In this context Japan was not mentioned. Gratuitously the Leader of the Opposition brought it into the debate. 

 Mr E. G. WHITLAM (Werriwa-Leader of the Opposition)- Might I say again that Japan is the only nation, country or people, mentioned in the whole of the speech. Japan is mentioned 28 times. There may be others - 
Opposition supporters have been very confused in this debate. The reason why they are confused is that they know that the Government's policy is right. They want to raise dissatisfaction. They want to raise trouble. They want to cause unemployment- that is their ploy- but they know that the policy laid down by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  is the right policy and it is for that reason that I now propose to move an amendment. I move: 
That the following words be added to the motion: 'and this House commends the Government for its initiative in taking steps to ensure that the unemployment benefit relates to the genuine needs of the community and is not used as a vehicle for wilful job avoidance and the misuse of taxpayers money '. 
That amendment will be seconded in due course. I want to say that I and other honourable members on this side of the House do share a sympathy for the unemployed and we do know that most of them are out of work not through their own fault but by reason of the economic disaster which came to Australia because of the clumsiness and the misbehaviour of the Whitlam Government. It was under the Whitlam Government that the tide of unemployment ran in. It is still far too high, but we will get it down. 
The honourable member says it will be in the sweet by and by. I noted a kind of gloating satisfaction in his voice of which he should be ashamed. 
All the honourable member wants to do is to make political capital out of the unemployed. He wants to use them as election fodder. That is what he is at. I ask the House to take note of the gloating satisfaction in his voice. This is not the approach of honourable members on this side of the House. I believe, as I have said, that most of the people whom we refer to as unemployed and who are on unemployment benefit are genuine. There are some who are not and I would agree that they are only a small fraction of the total, but it could be a growing fraction unless measures are taken to prevent a deterioration in the position. I believe the Government is entirely right to take these measures now. Indeed, even our predecessors thought that some measures should be taken. They did tighten up what they called the work test and in August last they got a report from their officers advocating the reforms which this Government brought in in January this year. I can well understand that the outgoing Government did not have time to consider the matter because its supporters were at that time in disarray and in confusion and in the political turmoil that led to the election. 
I have said that most unemployment benefit holders are genuine and I have said that some are not. Let me deal with the local position in my own electorate. I do this not because it is my electorate but because it is something that I know about personally and which may throw light on what is happening in other parts of Australia. There is at Dee Why in the middle of my electorate a Department of Social Security office which deals with claims by people throughout most of the Manly- Warringah peninsula. During normal times at this season of the year- I have statistics going back for some years- there would be perhaps 70 people at Dee Why on unemployment benefit. The number would vary a little. Sometimes it would be down to sixty. Sometimes it might be up to ninety, but it is within that range. Under Labor the figure rose from the normal 70 to over 2000 and it is still up round the 2000 level although it is slightly down. This is the measure of what can happen. This is a far worse general position than occurs in the average electorate in Australia. 
I have been looking at the reasons for this. I think there are 2 reasons. The first is that unemployment has fallen particularly on the white collar section of the workers, and they are in my electorate. Secondly, and this is the thing which I note with some regret, my electorate is a pleasant and seaside surfing electorate and there have been congregating in it not too many but some people who have come there in order to become professional unemployed. I have had a look at the general run of what is happening. No statistics are available, but it would appear that there is an inordinate number of young people, and particularly young single men, among the recipients of unemployment benefit in my area. This is something which I think should distress every member of this House because I do not believe that this is a phenomenon which is peculiar to the electorate of Mackellar. 
I think the House had better consider particularly the position of young people who leave school and cannot find a job and go unhappily and very often through no fault of their own into the ranks of the unemployed. Sure this is an economic waste. Sure we lose the value of their production. But this is not the main thing. The main thing is the impact on the morale of people in that age group and in those circumstances. 
People at this point in their lives, when they are leaving school and joining the work force, are in a most sensitive position. What they learn then will colour their attitudes for the rest of their lives. The morale of these people is particularly important. Therefore it is especially important that there be no opportunity for or temptation to them to go on unemployment benefit, stay on it and deliberately evade the opportunities of gaining work. I am not saying that most of them are like this. I know that most of them are not like this. But I know that some are like this. If these professional work evaders are left uncontacted and uninvestigated and are able to get away with it, their example will be infectious. To destroy the morale of the young is a very serious thing. 
I do not know whether honourable members read the comic strips. Some of them may. Those who do will know the whimsical character Andy Capp who has been a professional work evader since boyhood. He is in the comic strips. He is amusing. Honourable members may not realise that in England he has become a real character. Too many people are like him. We do not want these characters, however amusing they may be, to emerge as part of the Australian scene. Therefore I say that it is to the advantage of the genuinely unemployed, who represent the vast majority of those getting unemployment benefit, to cut back quickly on those who are making a profession of being unemployed. To tighten the work test, as the Government is doing now, is to the benefit of those who are genuinely unemployed. I think they will be glad we are getting rid of those people, the small minority, who are abusing the system. 
For my part, I want to think that this change in the work test is an essential preliminary to the 
Government's new drive to reduce the ranks of the unemployed and to give more people genuine work opportunities. Unless there is a work test of this character, schemes for increasing employment are likely to fail. It is quite right to say that at present the recorded vacancies are miserably insufficient to meet the needs of those who are genuinely unemployed. I know also- I know it from my electorate- that some relatively unskilled categories have vacancies which have not been filled and which cannot be filled. I believe that in the transport system there are vacancies which have not been filled. I think this is a reproach. I am hoping that the tightening of the work test will enable some of those vacancies to be filled. 
I find myself not entirely in sympathy with everything the Government is doing. I believe we must find more work for those who are willing to work and who are anxious to take work. The work test, as it is being applied by the Government under the new regulations, is, to my way of thinking, good, right and overdue. There is only one snag. To apply the work test properly there must be more work. To get more work is our great objective. The tightening of the work test is, I hope, a preliminary to a policy of getting more work. If so, the work test will once again become meaningful because it will be able to be applied under circumstances in which work is available. Regrettably they are not the circumstances today. I hope it will not be long before they are. The present move by the Government seems to me to be ultimately to the great advantage of the genuine recipients of unemployment benefit who seem to me to be the vast majority of recipients of unemployment benefit. 
-Mr Acting  Speaker,  I am supporting this Bill, but I must say that when I first saw it there was a certain amount of disappointment. That disappointment was tempered when I realised that this is only an interim Bill and that the Government's real policy would, for the benefit of pensioners, come in in the Budget session. I want to go through some of the the things which were in my mind in this regard. First, this Bill does adjust the pension to the consumer price index, and that is a good thing; and it is in accordance with the Government's pledge. 
I have hoped that for the future, and I feel a little doubtful that this will be done, that the tie with the consumer price index will be made an automatic tie. This is something which, when I was a Minister, I endeavoured to have brought in and I am only sorry that it has not been brought in earlier. This does not, of course, mean that the pensions should not in the future rise more than the consumer price index. As the community becomes more prosperous and its standards of living rise, as I think they will, and as under this Government they will rise, I believe that pensioners should at Budget time share also in that rise in standards. When the whole situation of the community uplifts I believe that the position of the pensioners in real terms should uplift with it also. But below this, as a floor, there should be the holding of the pension at its purchasing power so that pensioners are not disadvantaged by rises in prices, and for that the six-monthly adjustment to the consumer price index is the right thing; and I believe it should be the automatic thing. As I have said, if the prosperity of the country has improved from Budget to Budget, as indeed I am sure it will under this Government, in addition to the CPI adjustment pensioners should share in that increased prosperity. 
I want to deal with a question which has exercised my mind and the minds of other members of this House- the question of funeral benefits which are covered by Part  IVa  of the principal Act. This bill repeals that Part which has always been an unsatisfactory section. It is far too complicated. It is hedged about with unreasonable means test provisions and I do not think it has really operated as it should have done to the benefit of pensioners' families because of its relationship to what I would call the funeral industry. It is an unsatisfactory Part and its repeal is not unreasonable. But it should be replaced with something better. I believe that the Government is going to replace it with something better. 
What is now proposed is simply clearing the way for a new move to be made to substitute something better for the old funeral benefits. I should like to make a suggestion as to what that something better should be. I base this on a provision which I brought into this House when I was Minister; namely, provision for the payment of pensions at married rate for 12 weeks after the decease of one partner in a married couple. This is provided for by section 135U of the existing Act. This is, I think, a good provision. It has worked well. It has been a humane provision and I think that it is the provision we should imitate when we look for something better to put in place of the old funeral benefits. I believe that what we should provide is that for a period of some weeks after a pensioner's death, the pension should continue to be paid to his estate so that it would be available for his funeral or for the benefit of his relatives. This can be done fairly easily. Such a provision has great advantages. It gets rid of all the obnoxious complications of the old funeral benefit. It gets rid of some of the unreasonable means test restrictions which applied to the old funeral benefit and it will enable a reasonable payment to be made. With the pension of the order of $40 a week, as it is now, even 2 weeks would be worth $80 which would be better by far than the existing funeral benefit. It would be taxable as part of the estate of the deceased person, but that is not unreasonable nor is it unjust because taxation of pension is the only proper form of means test. This taxation, which should fall on pensioners and non-pensioners alike- on all members of the community- is a reasonable way of applying a means test. It seems to me that for those over the age of 65 years anything else is unreasonable. Therefore I suggest that for a fortnight or perhaps 4 weeks after the death of a pensioner the pension should continue to be paid to his estate and this would be a much more humane and much better way of dealing with the situation than the old funeral benefit. I hope that the action the Government has taken to get rid of the old funeral benefit from the Act is only in order to clear the way for putting something better in its place. 
I speak next of something which was raised by the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  in his speech. He spoke with feeling and sympathy for those people who are left destitute, need an emergency payment and cannot wait for their pension papers to be filled in and all the formalities to be gone through. I know that these people do require special support, but I do not find myself in agreement with the method of support which the honourable member for Hotham proposed. If people want and need emergency payments because they are destitute, then it is not possible for the bureaucratic check to be made. The government machinery must be one which provides for bureaucratic checks; otherwise there will be fraud and dissipation of the revenue. With government, the bureaucratic check is necessary, and I think every sensible person will realise that it is necessary. How then do we meet these emergency cases which have their own necessity which also must be met? I do not think there is any way to do this, except by some machinery more decentralised than the Commonwealth machinery. Some people say: 'Let it be done through the States'. Certainly the States, with their access to their welfare organisations, police forces and so on, are in a better position to take a spot judgment than is the Commonwealth. 
But I do not believe that even the States can do this effectively. 
It seems to me that the only ones who can do this effectively are the charitable organisations. This should be one of the reasons for which they exist. It will be said, and said very rightly: 'Why should the burden fall on the charitable organisations?' I do not think it should. I believe that we should make the charitable organisation the responsible agent for the distribution of these emergency funds. This can be done fairly simply and with proper accounting precautions. It can be done in this way: We will say to the charity organisation: 'You make the advance and then, when the payment comes through- as it will, after the bureaucratic necessities have been satisfied- we will arrange to recoup it to you so that you will not be out of pocket'. The charitable organisation might well say: 'Yes, but there will be some loss because every now and again we will make an emergency payment which will not be recouped to us'. This is also true. Would it not be possible and easy to arrange for such charitable organisations to receive a commissionshall I say 10 per cent of the amount of money that they turn over in this way- so that they would not be out of pocket but at the same time there would be some kind of check upon them and they would not be irresponsible? 
Let me put it to the House that the charitable organisation which goes down to the grass roots is in a far better position to estimate the genuineness of a claim in respect of an emergency need than any Commonwealth service can be. I know that there would have to be checks as to duplication and things of this character, but I do not believe that these are matters of any insuperable difficulty. I have put this to charitable organisations in the past, and I put it to them again: They should not be called upon to carry the burden of this; but they should be asked to do effectively the administration, because they can do it much better than any Commonwealth or State instrumentality can. If they will not do it then let the States do it. But above all, let us try to avoid duplication, a situation where we have the charitable organisations in at one point, the State services in at another point and the Commonwealth services in at another. That is triplication, not duplication, but triplication is even worse than duplication. 
I would hope that under the Government's plan of decentralisation, under the Government's plan for trying to get responsibility away from decisions of the Public Service and into private hands, we would find this as a proper avenue through which the charitable organisations could exert their energies. After all, this is the reason for the existence of these organisations, and this is as it should be. This was their function in the past when we were in government. We should now be trying to use the charitable organisations to the greatest possible extent and co-operate with them in order to enlarge the ambit of their activities. While I am dealing with that, let me say that I am disappointed that under the Labor Government the aged persons homes scheme was virtually strangled. I know the Labor Government proposed an increase of the two-to-one subsidy- it was to be increased to four-to-one, or what have you- but administratively it put on limits so that nobody could take advantage of the new bounty. 'Hang your clothes on the mulberry bush but don't go near the water' was the way the Labor Government administered, maladministered, and virtually strangled the aged persons homes scheme. The figures will show that. Under Labor the number of approvals dropped right off because of the way in which the scheme was administered and because of the strangling effect of the upper limit of costs at a time when building costs were escalating at an alarming rate. 
I hope that as part of our scheme for decentralising and making use of the very real charitable feelings which exist in the community we can once again revive this aged persons homes scheme and drive it forward as it should be driven forward, because it is the pensioner who does not have proper accommodation at a reasonable rate who is the pensioner in difficulty. If one looks at Professor Henderson's poverty line and if one takes out the rent component, as is the fair thing to do if one looks at the way in which the poverty line was first calculated, we will see that the pensioners who really want and need help are those who do not have accommodation at a reasonable rate. It is for that reason that the aged persons homes scheme should, I believe, be driven forward once again. We had great momentum under a Liberal government. I am proud that, as Minister, every year I was getting a record number of units built. Under Labor the output fell right away. That is a matter of statistics. 
Next let me say that I am disappointed that so far the Government has not plugged what I think is the main weakness in the whole social service scheme, that is, the failure to do anything for the widower with dependent children. I am hoping that in the next Budget this is one thing that will get the Government's support. I shall be plugging for that as hard as I can. Finally let me say that I am hoping that it will not be long before we make another move towards carrying out the Government's announced plan of getting rid of the means test for everybody over the age of 65 years. There is some confusion about this which I hope I will have an opportunity to speak about at greater length at some time. My time is running out now and I shall not be able to do more than say that I myself will continue to drive for the abolition of the means test for all over 65 years of age at the earliest possible moment. 
When we went out of office at the end of 1972 we said we would abolish the means test within 3 years, and we would have been able to do it within 3 years if it had not been for the immense financial morass into which we have been plunged by the maladministration of the Labor Government. Even allowing for that it does seem to me that this should not be too long delayed and I myself, as I have said, will be doing everything to make it clear to the Government that I will not be able to continue to support it on this social services issue unless something effective is done about the means test and done fairly soon in accordance with the pledge which the Government has given. I say with some confidence that I believe the Government will cany these things out in accordance with the undertaking which was given to the electorate. 
I have great pleasure in speaking to this matter. I believe it is a matter of urgency, because this Parliament has not so far paid sufficient attention to matters of foreign affairs. I want to recite to the House some rather disagreeable facts. Last December the seventh general meeting of the Polish Communist Party demanded that changes be made to the Polish constitution. The so-called Polish Parliament in February obediently carried into effect the changes which had been proposed by the Communist Party. I will not summarise all of them. Let me remind the House of a few of them. Under the constitution a leading role was to be given to the Communist Party of Poland. That meant that Poland became formally as well as in fact a one-Party state. Secondly, the State Council of Poland, an arm of the 
Executive Government, was given the function of interpreting the Polish constitution. This meant, in effect, that Rafferty's rules would be observed in all constitutional measures in Poland and that the Polish people would be put formally as well as in fact under the complete domination of the Polish Communist Party. 
Another change in the constitution was that the foreign policy of Poland for the future would be based on eternal friendship with the USSR. That meant that Poland was to become formally as well as in fact a merged satellite with the Soviet state. This is what happened to Poland. In form this was done internally by the Polish Communist Party, but actually it was done by the Soviet Communist Party which issues orders, and has for long issued orders, to its satellite Party in Poland. Now in law the Polish state which has for long been under Russian control and domination becomes formally almost one of the Soviet states. That is what happened in February. 
We have not much to be proud of when we think of what we have done to Poland or failed to do to Poland. Poland has a long and unhappy history of partitions, going back for centuries. The poets have been much more conscious of the effect of these partitions than have other people in Europe. Honourable members might remember the line from Shelley: 
And Freedom shrieked- as Kosciusko fell! 
That was one of the many partitions of Poland a long time ago. We come now to recent history. In 1939 the Second World War started because Stalin made his infamous pact with Hitler which made Russia the ally of Nazi Germany. Between them they marched into Poland and partitioned it once again. The war started because we said we would opposse the parititioning of Poland. That was the cause of the War. The course of the war brought little comfort to the Polish people. Let me recite a few incidents. Do honourable members remember the murders in the Katyn Forest where the Russians murdered the officers of the Polish Army? Do honourable members remember the seige of Warsaw, when we quite shamefully abandoned the people of Warsaw to be engulfed by the Russians? Do honourable members remember the betrayal of Mikolajczyk and his fellow Ministers? These things are so shameful that we would do well to forget them. Yet they are part of the unhappy history of the temporarily conquered and subjugated Polish people who will rise again from this latest partition as they have arisen from so many in the course of history. 
 There has been in Poland since that time, 1945-46, a gradual subversion of democracy under the forms of democracy. We were persuaded, wrongfully, that the Russians would permit democracy to operate in Poland. We were told that the new Polish state would be autonomus and its Parliament would express the views of the Polish people. That is not so. From that time forward the presence of Soviet soldiers on Polish soil made it quite certain that there would be no freedom. These processes have continued. Part of the process is one instance which we have witnessed in the last 3 months- the taking over formally of a position in the Polish constitution which the Russian imperialists occupied for so long. 
What has this to do with us? Why is this a matter of urgency for Australians? We are a long way away, even though so many of the Polish refugees from Imperialist communism have come to Australia and are now living among us as Australian citizens. There is more than that. We in Australia can never divorce ourselves from the rest of the world. The creeping communism of Russia is still edging forward, whether it is in the Indian Ocean or the Pacific Ocean, whether it is with the fleets around us, whether it is in the subversion in South East Asia or whether it is the way in which communism edges forward in Europe because we do not have the fortitude to stand up against what it is doing. It is all part of the same thing. 
Of course, the Soviet Union will not face total war- none of us would want that to happenbecause, with the use of today's weapons, little would be left of civilisation or, indeed, of humanity if such a thing were to occur. A cold war is going on instead. We will be fooling ourselves if we persuade ourselves that there has been any relaxation of this cold war. World war may be no longer conceivable- I do not think it is conceivablebut fringe wars are still possible. We have seen them not far from Australia- in South East Asia- only recently. We see them going on in Africa even today. Australia is in the same kind of fringe position. But, over and above this, in the main centres of power as well as in the fringe states there is the process of the subversion of the will to resist. We are being told lies about the freedoms in Russia. We are being told lies about how we have only to wait and the Russian totalitarianism will dissolve. 
While we are not protecting ourselves in any way against communist political subversion here in Australia, the Russian masses are being welded and mobilised into a political striking force. This has gone on even at things like the 
Helsinki conference of only a few months ago when we- when I say 'we' I mean our side, the West- were manoeuvred into conceding more and more of the Russian political position. In return we were going to be offered freedom of access to the Russian people and we were going to be offered freedom of emigration for the imprisoned peoples of Russia. We paid our price but the goods were not delivered. This is how it always goes on. One cannot trust the Soviet Union. The Soviet Union will never keep its word if it is to the advantage of communism that it should break it. We have been the mugs and we are still being the mugs in this regard. 
What has happened in Poland in the last few months is part of this process. Because it is distant we believe that we can disregard it. No worse illusion could be embraced by us. So I say that it is important for this House to express its repugnance of what has happened in Poland because what has happened in Poland is part of a world process in which, like it or not, we are also involved. We are talking now not only about the freedom of Australia and the maintenance of the Australian democracy but also the security and integrity of the Australian continent. World history sweeps on and it will engulf those who make no efforts to withstand it. 
-I wish to make a personal explanation on a point of misrepresentation. The honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  was good enough to use a picturesque phrase a few moments ago and talk about my playing footsie with the Chinese etc. This is utterly and completely the opposite of the truth. I have always opposed Chinese communism just as much as I have opposed Russian communism. It is a matter of judgment but at the present moment I would think the Russians are more dangerous. I do not hold that as a matter of faith; they are both bad. 
-I will be very brief. I think that the proposal to cut adjournment speeches to5 minutes is a good one. It will allow more honourable members to speak. If an honourable member has anything to say which is really of consequence and requires more than5 minutes I am sure that the good sense of the House will enable him to continue for another 5 minutes. This could be achieved by nobody else rising at the expiration of his time. I think this will happen because the House has a certain good sense in these matters. 
I hope that the Opposition will not oppose the second motion which will be moved after this motion has been dealt with. Any amendment if required, could be made conveniently when the procedure comes up for confirmation after a short run of only 2 weeks to see how it works. The Minister, of course, will not abuse the position in the way suggested by the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes).  If necessary we can conveniently amend the form of words later. Let us look at this arrangement for a fortnight to see how it works. 

<graphic href="098131197604075_27_1_1_A.jpg"></graphic>

Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Briefly I again make a plea for a quicker incorporation of Acts when an amendment has been made. We are altogether too lax and lazy in issuing copies of an Act as amended. It seems to me that the right and proper time to do this is immediately after this Parliament has passed an amendment. It is at that time that the whole of the circumstances are in the mind of the Parliamentary Counsel and surely at that time it would be simple for the Parliamentary Counsel to delegate the task of framing an incorporated amended Act to some junior and proper officer in his Office and to see that as a matter of course the amended Act was issued in its proper form as an automatic procedure after it had received the royal assent. It is altogether wrong that we should not know, without quite complicated reference, what the law is. When this Parliament has passed an amending Act I believe that the amended Act should be issued almost instantaneously and as a matter of course. I can remember that when we talked about the daily  Hansard  people said: 'It cannot be done. It will be too expensive. It is ridiculous.' But, as a matter of fact, the daily  Hansard  now comes out automatically and amended Acts should issue automatically after they have received the royal assent. 
I think it is time that the House was reminded of the fact that the New South Wales Labor Party is part of the Australian Labor Party and is disciplined by it. Of course, as we know, the federal body is able to go into a State, if it wants to, and declare that the Labor Party of that State shall be dissolved or be reconstituted or something of this character. It has done this in more than one State in recent times. It is therefore rather strange that in this election campaign which is occurring in New South Wales at present, great efforts are being made to keep the present honourable member for Werriwa,  (Mr E. G. Whitlam),  the Leader of the Australian Labor Party in this House, out of the State of New South Wales. This is being done in a dishonest way because the New South Wales Labor Party knows perfectly well that it is under the control of the federal body and the federal body seems to be swayed by its demon, the honourable member for Werriwa. 
I am afraid that the honourable member for Werriwa, the Leader of the Opposition, seems to have a great deal of influence in it. I can understand that the Labor Party in New South Wales does not want him there because whatever admiration we may have in this House for the honourable member for Werriwa- I must confess that my admiration is not entirely unmixed- it is obvious that his reputation stinks throughout Australia and it is obvious - 
My question is directed to the Leader of the House. I refer to the occurrences in the House last night on the adjournment when the Opposition, for whatever motive, called for 3 divisions, thus occupying most of the allotted time and effectively stifling debate to the extent that you,  Mr Speaker,  felt compelled to remark upon it. 
-I give notice that on Thursday next, General Business day No. 2,I shall move: 
That this House notes the statement made by Henry John Fischer, which makes against the Leader of the Opposition the most serious charges which have ever been credibly levelled against any Member of this Parliament. 
It notes that these allegations include: 
The negotiating with Iraqi organisations which sponsor terrorism for the obtaining of large sums of money to be used to further the purposes of his Party, the Australian Labor Party, at elections. 
The acceptance from Iraqi agents of a packet said to contain half a million dollars. 
The discussion with the Iraqi emissaries, at the time of the receipt of the package, of the propositions that, if elected as Prime Minister, he would assure that Australian policy in the Middle East was changed, and that he would pass on to their organisation special information about the Middle East policies of the United States, Israel and other nations. 
The promise of further Iraqi moneys for ALP purposes, amounting to another half million dollars, on certain conditions. 
The House further notes that, although these allegations are not yet fully proved, they are made credible by established facts, including the following: 
The Leader of the Opposition was concerned in negotiations for Iraqi money for ALP electoral purposes. 
The ALP was put in substantial financial difficulties after the last election campaign by reason of the nonreceipt of all expected moneys from whatever sources. 

 Mr Fischer, the maker of the above allegations, was closely concerned in financial negotiations between the Iraqis and the ALP. 

 Mr Fischer was sufficiently intimate with the Leader of the Opposition to be his host and to be present at the critical breakfast meeting when  Mr Fischer  states that the packet was handed over to the Leader of the Opposition. 
The Leader of the Opposition's own versions of these matters, as reported in the Press, exhibit evasion and implausibility. 
This House therefore expresses the hope that, if the Leader of the Opposition believes himself to be innocent of these charges, he will take prompt steps to call for the setting up of an effective tribunal, with full powers to probe them all and to clear his name. 
-I found the statement made by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  admirable and balanced. I have not had the opportunity of reading the report, but I shall look for an opportunity to do so. I believe that we cannot put all the blame on one side. I am convinced that the Aborigines were utterly and absolutely innocent in respect of Skull Creek. I do not think the same could be said about the previous incidents at Laverton. I do not think that any of us really want to say that. So it is not just a case of one side being right and one side being wrong. I think that nothing can excuse an attempt by the police to twist evidence and to frustrate the inquiry. Nothing could excuse that at all, and one does not want to. 
The Minister spoke in fair and commendatory terms of what had been done by  Senator Cavanagh.  Could I add that I believe that the House should also look at what has been done by  Mr Manfred  Cross, the former member for Brisbane, who was the  Chairman  of the House of Representatives Committee on Aboriginal Affairs in the last Parliament. He, like myself, when we read of the incident at Skull Creek and made inquiries, was convinced that the Aborigines at Skull Creek were completely innocent of the charges made. Of course, I do not know to what extent he spoke to  Senator Cavanagh  in regard to this incident. That is a matter for his own Party. But I do know that  Mr Manfred  Cross was very much in favour of the inquiry which took place and which has been completely justified. 
I do not know that one gets a great deal of satisfaction in trying to hunt down the police, and in saying that everything the police have done has been wrong. The House will know that there are very considerable disturbances in the Aboriginal community equivalent to the disturbance at Laverton to which the Minister makes mention in his statement. The incident at Laverton is not an isolated one. In the interests of the Aboriginal people it is essential that the kind of incident that occurred at Laverton be brought to an end throughout the north and central part of Australia where Aborigines still maintain some of their own tribal infrastructure. 
I believe that the policies of past governments -and I use the word 'government' in the plural- have been wrong in that they have endeavoured to disregard the Aborigines own identity and systems of authority. I think we have to take a completely different approach if we are to give some hope to the Aboriginal people. I say with very great regret that in the last few years the deterioration in the condition of the Aboriginal people in the north and central part of Australia has been shocking and to me almost unbelievable. Things are not getting better; they are getting worse. Something has to be done. It is no good denigrating the police as a whole. The conduct of the police at Skull Creek was inexcusable. At Laverton the conduct of the Aboriginal people was of such a character that if it is maintained at other places it will destroy them and their chances of advancement and even of maintaining their present position. 
What I liked most about the Minister's statement was that it was balanced and that it did not try to say that there was nothing wrong with the Aboriginal people. It did not say that there was nothing wrong with the police. It tried to say that there was some blame on both sides, although not at Skull Creek. The Skull Creek incident, taken by itself, was one for which the Aboriginal people could not be blamed. They were entirely the innocent party. That is not the position in regard to the anterior incidents at Laverton. Let us be balanced about this matter. It is only by a balanced approach that we can hope to do anything to help the Aboriginal people to help themselves. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Some weeks ago the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  said that the economic situation had proved more intractable than had been at first thought. I think we have to confess that the present economic prospects are unsatisfactory under the present financial policy of the Government. Some change is required. The economy is fragile and it is being elbowed by high interest rates. Nobody expects a dramatic collapse but we do fear some kind of long term low grade depression unless there is the requisite change in the Government's financial policy. I believe and I would hope from what the Prime Minister has said that he himself believes that the time has now come for some kind of change in the general thrust of our financial policy. 
We did inherit, of course, a tremendously difficult problem because of the almost incredible mess which the Whitlam Government had made of our economy. We have to take steps to do something about it. I think it is time for us to get the economy moving again and it is good that we should keep our objective of getting private enterprise to take up the slack. The long-term objective of cutting down the relative size of the public sector is of course a good objective, but the main thing is not to cut back the private sector. The main thing is to expand the private sector whose prospects depend so very largely upon Government financial policy. 
It is good, to cut out from the Budget waste and duplication. We should all support that, but I ask: Should we not be doing something to make proper use of the resources which we set free by reducing this kind of wasteful public expenditure? There are many things that we could do. We could be taking greater steps to improve the infrastructure on which the expansion of private enterprise will depend and by improving that infrastructure now we not only give private enterprise a better incentive to go forward but we also would make private enterprise more efficient when recovery is complete. Let me instance, for example, the improvement of the vital railway line between Townsville and Mount Isa, a line which requires something like $100m spent on it and the rolling stock and the improvement of the port of Townsville, or some of the transport facilities in New South Wales. This is the kind of thing that I mean by infrastructure for future expansion of private enterprise. 
We should also be thinking in terms of taking up the slack in the building industry, particularly in New South Wales, by releasing more money for aged persons homes. This House was told last night that about $300m worth of work was waiting to be done in order to catch up with the backlog in aged persons homes and hospitals. One does not ask that all that money be released at once. That would be unwise. However, I think it Would be wise to accelerate the release of funds for that purpose where the planning work has been done and employment can be provided immediately. There are schools and hospitals still needed. We should not exaggerate the need for them but there is very real need, particularly in certain areas such as the western suburbs of Sydney. I can even think of some areas in my own electorate where hospital facilities are inadequate. Again, as I have said, this is not something which we should go at madly and extravagantly but we should be expanding our capital program here and now. This is the time to reduce taxation, and reduce it especially in accordance with a plan which would keep down costs and prevent any rise in the consumer price index. This is one of the instruments which can be and should be used to beat inflation. 
We especially should be thinking of reducing personal income tax by full indexation here and now. These are the things which I advocate being done immediately, before this House rises for the winter recess, in a mini Budget. Unless we change the thrust of Government policy we may have a fairly disappointing time ahead of us. I ask: Why are these things not done? The answer is that we seem to be mesmerised or obsessed with some kind of idea about a mythical deficit. We get this repeated  ad nauseam  and, frankly, what is being said is nonsense. I refer the House to the figures. I invite honourable members to look first at the Treasury statement to the end of March, particularly the table at the bottom of the statement. I seek permission to incorporate that statement in  Hansard. 
I put this to the Opposition. It is all right. 

 - Sir, I approached the Opposition and obtained leave. Does the honourable member for Melbourne still refuse leave? 

<graphic href="099131197605053_60_0.jpg"></graphic>

-This table shows that to the end of March there is a so-called deficit of $4,945 billion but I invite honourable members to look at the financing transactions in the table. They will see that the net reserve Bank credit is $1.19 billion, the proceeds of savings bonds are $1,091 billion, the net loan proceeds from the public are $1,288 billion, the use of Treasury cash balances- mainly things like superannuation funds subscribed- represents $0,754 billion, and a little item called 'other financing transactions in Australia' amounts to $0,622 billion. That last item is a rather peculiar one and I have had it investigated by the Parliamentary Library. I find that it consists partly of coinage profits, partly of funds for the Post Office superannuation which is not included in the main Budget, and mainly of an amount exceeding $500m of bonds sold from the Loan Consolidation and Reserve Account which was accumulated in past years to the Reserve Bank on the initiative of the Reserve Bank for the purpose of resale to the public. This is one of the things that was passed through secretly. 
In point of fact the effective deficit as at the end of March was not the $4,945 billion of which the Treasury speaks. In terms of the use of central bank credit it was $1,190 billion, a different figure altogether. Even this deficit is mythical because if one looks at the last Treasurer's statement one will see that on his estimates no less than $4.8 billion worth of capital works was included in the Federal Budget and charged in as part of this mythical deficit. I have here a table which is a summary of the amounts extracted from the Budget papers. It sets this matter out in more detail. I will read it and ask for its incor poration in  Hansard.  It states: 

<graphic href="099131197605053_61_1.jpg"></graphic>

This deficit is not only caused by capital works but, as the March return shows, most of it has been financed by raising from the public or by use of funds which the public has subscribed to the Government. At the most we could say that we have a real deficit of $1,190 billion against which something like $4.8 billion of capital works are counted in. This is the real position and the Treasury apparently has pulled the wool over the eyes of the Treasurer and the Government in regard to it. The deficit is a mythical thing and really does not exist. It is high time that the Government realised this and did something about it. The bar against the use of our unused resources for proper productive capital works or proper works which have a social value is not there, the bar to immediate reduction of taxation is not there and the bar to the immediate implementation of full indexation of taxation is not there. I am afraid that the significance of the figures to which I have referred has not been realised in Government circles. It is time that we did something about it and changed the thrust of Government policy. 
I have heard many comparisons of our position with positions overseas. I am not for one moment saying that these comparisons are entirely relevant to the solutions we should have to our current problems; but to some degree they are relevant. For example, let us look at what happened last year in the United States. I think that to some extent the United States has started to climb out of the recession. Last year the United States had a federal deficit of $70 billion. In addition there was a deficit of accounts outside the Government- capital accounts and so on- of about $10 billion. But that is not the full story. The United States does not have a centralised loan council. The centralised Australian Loan Council means that the figures we are talking about cover State deficits also. 
Because of the use of State funds for local and semi-governmental purpose, they cover some part- not all- of local and semi-governmental deficits. If one were to try to compare the position of Australia this year with the position of the United States last year, one would have to add into the $70 billion deficit of the United States not only the $ 10 billion of uncounted expenditure, but also the multitudinous deficits of the 5 1 American States for that year, and the local Government municipal deficits too. This is something which is almost unique to Australia. I think this has been one of the cardinal sins of the Treasury for many years. Over this time we have been endeavouring to cover a great part of our capital expenditure from taxation. 
We have got into this rather peculiar situation where our whole financial structure seems to depend upon the continuance of this practice. In the early days it was covered by the increase in the loan consolidation and investment reserve to which I referred a few moments ago. In later days it has been dealt with in different ways in conjunction with State finances. But however it was done, we have been accumulating far too much of our capital expenditure through our taxation and paying for far too much out of taxation. In addition to the amounts I have spoken of, both the States and the Commonwealth put in sinking funds for our borrowings. That sinking fund is put into in addition to the amounts I have cited. 
So we have something of a situation where the incubus of federal taxation and the incubus of the federal restrictions on the States at present is impeding Australian recovery. This is a most important and vital thing that has to be brought to the attention of the Government because there has to be a change in the thrust of government financial policy. This has to be brought to the attention of the Government which, I am afraid, seems to have been bemused by the Treasury in exactly the same way as the previous Treasurer, the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  was himself bemused. The previous Treasurer, the honourable member for Oxley, was the architect of the Budget about which I have been talking in which we had this extraordinary position where the deficit was due entirely to the charging of capital works to current revenue. It was the previous Treasurer, the honourable member for Oxley, who in his Budget Speech, gave his concurrence and support to the system itself. 
So the Opposition should not draw any comfort from its own past performance. Anything that the Government is doing that is wrong has only been carried forward from the Budget of the honourable member for Oxley. It is in his Budget Speech and it is in his Budget figures. So I say that it is time that we started to do a bit of rethinking for the future when recovery is under way. It can be got under way. Then it will be time to cut down ruthlessly public expenditure and give the private sector the room to expand. At the present moment we should be giving it the encouragement to expand faster into the room made vacant by unemployment and by the end use of our present resources. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Innes)  adjourned. 
I would be more impressed by the Opposition's call for some inquiry were it not for the behaviour of its members this morning when they endeavoured, by every device available, to frustrate any possibility of an inquiry into the most grave charges that have been made against their leader, the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam).  These charges are substantial. They are made on credible grounds. They are the gravest charges ever made against any member of this Parliament in the history of Federation. I simply say that the charges have been made already. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, my motion has been withdrawn and it is not on the notice paper. Secondly, the matter was not discussed in the House this morning. 
-The notice has been withdrawn. 
-Sir, I will not refer to that subject. I point out that the motion is withdrawn and that is the situation as it is today. The Leader of the Opposition has been the subject of the gravest charges ever levelled against a member of this Parliament, and those charges - 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I do ask you to rule that my remarks are relevant in this regard: Very grave charges have been made against the Leader of the Opposition and the sincerity of the Opposition's whole case tonight must be assessed in the light of those charges, together with the reaction of Opposition members to them. The Opposition is obviously trying to do everything that it can to prevent this matter being discussed. It is essential that it should be discussed because - 
I do wish to draw attention to the lack of sincerity which has been evidenced by Opposition members tonight. As evidence of the lack of sincerity in respect of the matter on which I wish to speak, let me mention that Opposition members have been unwilling from time to time- I am not referring to the events of today- to countenance any inquiry into the conduct of their own Leader. I wish to show how disgraceful the conduct of that Leader would be if the charges made against him were true. I think that it is important that I should have the opportunity of reiterating what those charges were, so that the sincerity of the - 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I thank you for your ruling. I am endeavouring to test the sincerity of the members of the Opposition during this whole debate by pointing out their sins of omission. I do this by saying that they know perfectly well that the very gravest charges have been made against their own Leader. They are not trivial charges. They are not the kind of charges that have been made tonight. They are charges - 
I am saying that the charges made against the Leader of the Opposition are the gravest charges that have ever been made credibly against any member of the Parliament in its history. 
-I thank the House very much for having carried the motion because being able to speak without interruption will now give me an opportunity - 
-The House has carried a motion that I speak for IS minutes without interruption. That will give me an opportunity to tell the House and the country those things which the Opposition so sedulously wants to conceal, and let some of the truth be known. The position is that the most serious charges have been made against the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  and those charges are not made lightly. They have been made - 
-As I understood it, Standing Orders were suspended to enable me to speak without interruption and I would hope I would be able to do that. 

 -Mr Speaker, I raise a point of order. The House has carried the motion that I be entitled to speak for 15 minutes without interruption. I am proposing to avail myself of the vote of the House. I wanted to tell the House and the country those things which the Opposition has for so long been trying to conceal. 
-Thank you,  Sir. I  was endeavouring to test the sincerity of the Opposition by pointing out that while - 
I was pointing out that I did not make the charges; they were made by someone else. 
I am endeavouring to do just that,  Sir. I  am referring to the sincerity of the members of the Opposition in this debate and I think that, looking at the course of this debate, I am entitled to do so. I am entitled to say that they are obviously insincere in calling for an inquiry into lesser matters while they are so keen to avoid an inquiry into the conduct of their own Leader on matters which are much graver. It is relevant that I should bring up those things which relate to the sincerity of the Opposition in the debate. The charges which have been made and to which I want now to refer in passing - 
I want to refer to their gravity,  Sir, because  this is a matter which relates to the sincerity - 
I take a point of order,  Mr Speaker.  The resolution of the House is that I be heard without interruption. 

 - Mr Speaker, I ask for your protection. The resolution of the House was that I be heard for 15 minutes without interruption. I take it that that means that I shall be heard for 15 minutes without points of order being taken or other interruptions. I have not had the protection to which I think I am entitled in view of the resolution which the House carried. I ask you,  Sir, to  afford me that protection. 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
1 take it as a compliment that members of the Australian Labor Party hate me so much because I have done them so much damage in the past that a poor insignificant squeaker like the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  should dig up the past to make on me a kind of attack which would be irrelevant if it did not show that honourable members opposite hate and fear me as much as they do. I am a member of a Party which, it is true, allows some freedom of vote to its members in this House. I am not like the automata of the Labor Party who have to vote as they are told and whose Caucus, under its written constitution, has to do what an outside body tells it to do. You poor little puppets. 
They are not words I would ever want to apply to the Chair or to you,  Sir. It  is important to look to first things first. I regard the Labor Party as a disaster. I regard its members as enemies of Australia and I would not want to put them in power. Surely this is something which honourable members on both sides of the House would realise. Sure, members of the Labor Party have some responsibility on minor matters and on particular provisions within Bills but when it comes to putting this disastrous pro-communist party in power that is a different matter. I say that because I know that it still maintains these communist links and one of the reasons that its members hate me and fear me is that for 25 years in this House I have tried to show the links in the Labor Party with the Communist Party. I have tried to show, and I believe I have shown, that although there are many members in the Labor Party who are opposed to communism, although there are many people in the Labor Party who are neutral on that matter, nevertheless inside there is a small controlling communist core which works through the trade unions and conducts a reign of terror over the members of the Labor Party because it controls their pre-selection. Many of them who come from industrial areas know that in those areas the organisation and branches of the Labor Party are controlled by undercover communists. They know that they have to toe the communist Une. I know it is very difficult for a member of the Labor Party. He has to make up his mind whether he will stay in the Party and try to cure it of communism- many honest people could take that decision- or go outside the Labor Party because of its communist infection. The fact that there is a communist infection stands clearly on the record. In the old days there were unity tickets. 
This evening when leafing through the Encyclopaedia Britannica I came across an entry on the Children's Crusade. The entry read as follows: 
Children's Crusade, a religious movement in Europe during the summer of 1212 in which thousands of children set out to conquer the Holy Land from the Muslims by love instead of by force. The movement ended in disaster . . . 
The first group of children was led by a French shepherd boy named Stephen from ... a town near Vendome who had a vision in which Jesus appeared to him disguised as a pilgrim and gave him a letter for the French King. On his way to deliver the letter, Stephen attracted hundreds of followers, some of whom decided to go to the Holy Land. An estimated 30 000 made their way to Marseilles, where they fell victim to disreputable merchants who shipped them to slave markets in North Africa. 
A 10-year-old boy named Nicholas, from Cologne, Germany, led a second group . . . attracting an estimated 20 000 children. After crossing the Alps into Italy, they split into groups: some were dispersed . . . ; others continued on to Genoa, where they were refused transport across the Mediteranean . . . The fate of their leader, Nicholas, is unknown, but many of these children, like the French group, were sold in the East as slaves. 
Today, looking at the Friends of the Earth outside the House, I was reminded very much of the Children's Crusade. These young people, or the vast majority of them, are sincere, idealistic and almost entirely deluded. They are endeavouring to further a certain objective and, by their actions, are succeeding only in going in the opposite direction. I do not want to say that these people are in any sense insincere. I am sure that, like the children of the Children's Crusade, they are utterly sincere, but I am sure that they are just as deluded. 
The anti-nuclear lobby was started 20 years ago by coal and oil interests to protect their investments. I do not think that those interests are active in the lobby today because it has been taken over almost entirely by the communists. The communists get these poor deluded innocents to do their work for them. We are told by them that nuclear power is utterly abominable yet the communists, who are running them, sponsor nuclear power in Russia without any compunction whatsoever. What the communists are trying to do is to use these deluded and innocent people in order to break down the industrial structure of the democracies. What is happening in Australia is also happening in other parts of the world. This is a concerted effort. 
The truth of the matter is that nuclear power is the cheapest, safest and cleanest power available to mankind at the present moment. The pollution from a nuclear powered station is infinitely less than the pollution from a coal fired station. It is true, of course, that there is some nuclear waste, but the dangers of this nuclear waste have been magnified a hundred-fold, a thousand-fold, a million-fold, so that all sense of proportion has been lost. These poor innocent little people, the Friends of the Earth, whom we saw outside the House today are sincere, decent and honest like the poor children of the Children's Crusade 800 years ago. They are decent, sincere, honest, idealistic people and yet they are advocating what is in point of fact the maximum pollution in the environment. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Has he any information regarding the operations of foreign nationals fishing within 200 miles of Australian territory. 
Can he say how many boats are engaged in each area, and what is the scale of their operations. 
Can he detail the nature of the fishing operations conducted within 200 miles of Australian territory from bases in the New Hebrides. 
If his information on these matters is inadequate, will he contact his colleague the Minister for Defence to see what intelligence can be provided. 
Will he ascertain from his colleague the Minister for Foreign Affairs what information is available in the Department of Foreign Affairs on these matters, or what further information can be obtained. 
-I ask for leave to make personal explanation. 
-Yes. An article in the last issue of the  National Times,  reporting a paper which I gave to the Australian and New Zealand Association for the Advancement of Science in Hobart, appears to attribute to me views which are exactly the contrary to those that I expressed. The  National Times  says that I gave an erudite paper, which I think is correct. It then says that the paper examined what the Old Testament says about the split between the Jews and the other Semitic people 4000 years ago and discusses the ancient rules about fertility, midwives, marriage, homosexuality and bestiality. The  National Times  goes on to say: 
One ANZAAS wit said the paper should be entitled 'The Sexual Habits of the Jews- as Revealed by the Bible. ' 
As a matter of fact, I said that it appeared from the Bible that when the Jews split from the remainder of the Semitic people some 4000 years ago, they expressly repudiated the habits of infanticide, homosexuality and bestiality which were customary at that time among the peoples from whom they split. 
-This Bill proposes to give a 40 per cent deduction where the installation of plant is completed before 1 July 1979 and a 20 per cent deduction where the installation is completed and ready for use before 1 July 1984. 1 think that the dates are reasonable, but there is a little difficulty in connection with them. That is this: Investors might well in good faith want to complete before these dates and make arrangements under which they could normally be expected to complete before these dates; yet they may fail to do so because of industrial disputes and consequent delays. We know that this has happened in the past. We know that major items of plant have been delayed as much as 2 years not through any fault of the owner but because there has been concerted industrial action. 
It does appear to me that, if we leave these dates certain in this way, we will open investors to all sorts of industrial blackmail from trade unions. We all know of cases where, for example, building workers have half completed a concrete pour and then demanded blackmail money in order to complete it. They have said: 'If you do not do this, we will leave the pour half done. It will set. There will be all sorts of structural troubles'. This is almost common. It is almost an accepted practice in the building industry. We know that in a situation in which if plant is not completed by a due date there will be a very considerable loss to the company installing it- a loss which might well run into millions of dollars- a company will be open to all sorts of industrial blackmail. This would be a very bad thing indeed. Also, because of the fear of this action, investors might well refrain from installing or making a decision to install large items of plant- I give a blast furnace or a coking oven as an example- which might take many years to complete. For that reason, honourable members may find that the purpose of the Bill could be to some extent frustrated particularly in respect of such items of major plant. I believe, therefore, that we would be well advised to put some kind of flexibility into this clause. I have suggested in the amendment which has been circulated in my name that we should add to each of these provisions some words such as these. After '1984', for example, we should put: '. . . or such later date as may be prescribed by notice in the  Gazette,  on the ground that the completion of such particular unit of property was delayed by reason of an industrial dispute'. Let me make these points: First, the suggestion is that this be done not by regulation but by notice in the  Gazette.  Secondly, the suggestion is that it should be done openly.. I would not like a thing like this to be done by some underhand arrangement. Any arrangement made would have to be notified in the  Gazette.  Thirdly, it is a matter where the Treasurer might give such notice in the  Gazette  but he would not be compelled to do so. 
It is not, of course, said that in the future all industrial disputes should be free from blame by the owner of the property. It may be that in some industrial dispute in the future the owner is to blame. In that case the Treasurer would not put the notice in the  Gazette,  but it is essential that the Treasurer should have the power, I think, to put this notice in the  Gazette  in the appropriate cases. Unless he does so, there will be blackmail by trade unions demanding extra wages or improved conditions as a prerequisite to completing the plant. The trade unions will say to the owner: 'Look, unless you pay us these exorbitant wages and meet these exorbitant demands! we will hold the job up and you will lose a million dollars'. This will be a very persuasive argument to many owners. 
I believe we should take away this opportunity of industrial blackmail. If we were to put a provision similar to the one I propose in the Act, there would be no motive for the blackmail and it would not occur. As I have said, if we do this we will encourage a lot more people to invest quickly in big items of plant, and that is what the Bill is about and that is what we want to do. This constructive proposal of the Government's would, I think, be further improved by remedying this small defect. I take entirely the observation made by the Minister Assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Eric Robinson)  that he did not want, and none of us would want, this Bill to be held up. I would not want to hold up the Bill. I believe the drafting of my amendment is as good as I can do. Perhaps the parliamentary draftsman can improve it. I have some kind of hope that the Government will accept this amendment in another place and that this will be the method whereby we will get this provision into the Bill without in any way delaying its passage through this Parliament. I for one would be the last person to want to delay further a measure which could help to stimulate the economy. I hope that the Minister will be able to give me an assurance which will make it unnecessary for me to move the amendment in the terms I have indicated. 
I thank the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  for what he said. However, I point out to him that I do not think he was listening to what I said, otherwise I do not think he would have spoken as he did. I did not say that the matter should be done by way of regulation but rather that it should be done individually. I can see no reason why this should not be done if it be done openly and in the  Australian Government Gazette.  It is true that the dispute may be overseas. So what? If the owner of the plant honestly thinks that he can have it completed to gain the benefit of the allowance and for reasons outside his control he cannot get it completed, I think it is reasonable for the provision to be extended. 
I point out that if an amendment such as I have suggested were made to the Bill, the blackmail of which the Minister spoke would not arise. But if the amendment is not made to the Bill, then the blackmail from the unions will arise. However, it does not seem to me to matter very much that the record should be in relation to particular items of plant. Perhaps it has escaped the Minister that the Bill itself relates to particular items of plant. If that can be stated in the Bill, it should be inserted in the  Gazette.  I must say that I cannot follow what the Minister has said because it does not seem to me to make very much sense. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 1 1. 
After section  82KB  of the Principal Act the following section is inserted:  82KBA.  ( 1 ) A deduction is not allowable under this Sub division in respect of an amount by way of interest paid by the taxpayer on or after 1 July 1976 in respect of a loan connected with a dwelling used by the taxpayer as his sole or principal residence if- 
another dwelling was used by the taxpayer as his sole or principal residence in Australia at a time before he commenced to use the first-mentioned dwelling us his sole or principal residence: and 
at the time mentioned in paragraph (a) the taxpayer, or a person who was the spouse of the taxpayer at that time, held a relevant interest in the other dwelling. 
-I seek leave to make a personal explanation. 
-Yes, I was misrepresented. In  The National Times  of 24 May 1976 the following passage appeared: 
The enthusiasm for tax indexation among Liberal Ministers seems to be a fairly recent phenomenon: in fact it's less than a year old. 
As recently as June last year, the Liberal MP W. C. Wentworth argued strongly for tax indexation in the party room. 
A succession of speakers then argued against it . . . 
My advocacy in the Party room was not in June of last year, as the article states, but in September 1974. At page 2080 of  Hansard,  in October 1974, honourable members will find that I did advocate almost virtually the same scheme as the Government has now brought forward. Furthermore, some months previously, on  Federal File,  when speaking with the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  I advocated tax indexation. I think that that was the first time that that had happened publicly in Australia. My only supporter at that time, as I recall it, was the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns).  The fact that I now have distinguished converts, Mr Hawke and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  confirms my strong belief that I was right then and am right now. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Will he confer with his colleague the Minister for Foreign Affairs and prepare a paper for the House regarding the progress of the international negotiations on the Law of the Sea. 
Pending the preparation of such a document, will he provide a summary of developments and expected developments. 
I commence by saying a few words about the conduct of the Opposition tonight. The country might well fear that the Opposition could ever become the Government again. The country should resolve that the Opposition should never become the Government again. 
I turn my mind to the statement of the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch).  It certainly has some good features. It is a good feature that waste and extravagance be cut. It is a good feature that private enterprise be encouraged. It is a good feature that tax indexation be brought in. It is a good feature that family allowances be liberalised and modified. 
Having said all those things, I must say that I thought that the general thrust of the Treasurer's statement went awry. I say that in all seriousness and I understand the import of what I am saying. I feel the statement gave insufficient stimulus to the economy when it needed that stimulus, that it took insufficient recognition of the level of unemployment and that it did not appreciate how fragile the state of business was or how unsatisfactory the low productivity in our economy, due very largely to an under-utilisation of plant and resources, really was. 
In total, it gave no real tax relief if account be taken of the new Medibank charges. The cuts were without compensation. They will reduce employment in certain directions and there might be a case for that but there was no compensation of quality capital expenditure to take the place of those cuts. Therefore I feel that the whole thrust of the statement was awry. 
I come back to a point which I have made previously and which I will continue to make in this House and eleswhere until the significance and the correctness of this point are established and understood. The Government is still obsessed with a mythical deficit, and it has closed its options on taxation reduction and stimulation of proper capital works. It has become too much obsessed, I repeat, with this mythical deficit. I would like members to consider the details of the April return for the first 10 months of this financial year which has been published by the Treasury. That return purports to show a deficit of $4,369 billion. That has been the figure naively quoted by members of the ministry, including the Treasurer. 
I will come to that. This so called 'deficit' seems to have eaten its way into the thinking of the Government. Let me quote from the last table in the April return. It is headed 'Financing Transactions'. It shows that almost all of this 'deficit' has been financed through normal loan raisings or through cash inflow. Let me quote the details. It shows a $1.45 billion borrowing from the Reserve Bank. Against that it shows $ 1.096 billion repayment of Treasury Bills. The net borrowing from the Reserve Bank is not, in round figures, $4.4 billion, but only $3 50m. 
The table shows a credit of $34 billion from net loan raisings overseas. It shows 2 rather peculiar items at the end. It shows $676m which it calls 'Other Financing Transactions in Australia'. I have looked at this figure. The Parliamentary Library kindly gave me a view upon it. I believe that view to be correct because it is substantiated at least in part by a letter which I received from the Treasurer. A little over $ 100m of the $676m is cash inflow, receipts from the Post Office Superannuation Fund and profit on the coinage. I read what the Library says about the bulk of the remaining amount: 
Virtually all the rest is explained by sales of securities to the Reserve Bank from Loan Consolidation and Investment Reserve to enable the Bank to resell them as part of its open market operations. This is the first year there has been a big figure for this item. This is not included in borrowing from the Reserve Bank because the sale of securities was at the initiative of the Reserve Bank to continue its open market operations rather than at the initiative of the Treasury to finance the deficit. What that means is that a little more than $S00m in loans was 'washed ' by the Reserve Bank for the Treasury. We had what was, in point of fact, a $S00m raising from the market which was not brought to light; but which was done secretly. 
Then we had this matter of the use of cash balances of $696m. As far as I know, no details are available about that because the Treasury does not release the figures. A great part of that money is obviously cash inflow coming from sales of the surplus of wool, and a great part of it is cash inflow coming through the normal superannuation funds and things of that character, which are raisings from the public. So it looks as though, as at the end of April after 10 months operations, the net drawings were only something of the order of $500m-$0.5 billionand not the $4 billion odd which Treasury quotes. 
How is this overdrawing inflationary? Sure, it would be inflationary if there were full employment and there was competition with private enterprise, or anybody else, for labour and resources. Sure, it would be inflationary if it had encouraged speculation so that there would be increased capital expenditure. But neither of those things has happened. We have not got too much capital expenditure. Indeed the Government is trying to induce further capital expenditure by means of its investment allowance. And we certainly have not got full employment. 
The Treasury seems to be obsessed with what I call 'Flat-Earth economies'. It is obvious commonsense, when you look at it, that the earth is flat. Just look at it. It is obvious commonsense. Yet what seems to be commonsense is, in fact, almost precisely wrong. The Treasury keeps on saying things which look to be  commonsense  but are almost exactly wrong- 'Flat-Earth economies'. 
What are we to do in the circumstances? The first thing is that when the Loan Council convenes, which it will do shortly to consider the year's program, we should have a very massive increase in loan allocations and authorisations so as, through capital works, we can take up some of the slack. We have got rid of some of the wasteful and duplicated expenditure, and that is a good thing. But once you have made those resources available, now when private enterprise is not taking them up, and is not being encouraged to take them up, and is not being given the circumstances in which it can profitably take them up, then we have to do a little bit of governmental spending on good capital works. It is much better that our men should be engaged on sewerage works, for example, which we need in the cities, rather than that they should be sitting idle and drawing the dole. It  is much  better that we should put some of our transport facilities in order to provide the infrastructure for future private enterprise. That is the first thing that we must do. When the Loan Council convenes there must be a massive increase in loan authorisations. 
We should not be bemused by a mythical deficit which does not exist, because not only is almost all of the so-called $4 billion covered by normal loan raisings; but also all of it has already been used for capital expenditure. If the accounts were properly presented we would have a loan account financed by loan raisings. That is the point and that is the reality which seems to be obscured by this gobbledegook from the Treasury. 
Secondly, we have to do something to give business confidence. One of the things which really worries enterprise is our present level of internal costs, so that if there is to be any revival of consumption it would be taken up by the inward spill of imports. 
Among the very grave mistakes which the previous Whitlam Government perpetrated, perhaps one of the gravest was the 25 per cent tariff slash. That opened Australian industry to all sorts of perils and troubles. We must ensure that this flood of imports does not recur. But it is not good enough just to wait for it and then stop it. What is needed now is to give to business which wants to invest, the assurance that when it does invest it will not find itself pressed out of profitability by a flood of imports. We need now a tariff policy enunciated by the Government. We need now a tariff policy which will ensure that for the future we do not just import unemployment. So those are the 2 things that I would ask for and which I believe should follow on and flow out of the Treasurer's statement. We have had bad advice from the Treasury. The advisers seem to have got an ascendency over the Cabinet. Our twin diseases seem to be Rattiganitis and the Stone. 
-I was most interested a moment ago to hear the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  compare the position in the trade unions with the election of members of Parliament. He will be familiar with the fact that there are 2 Houses of Parliament. The House of Representatives, our House, is elected from relatively small areas. Therefore in those areas the individual can be known. We consider ourselves in a way closer' to the people than are members of the Senate, which is elected on the electorate of the whole State and which therefore can really only be a party House. We have the position where the rank and file, as it were, can express themselves only in what my honourable friends on the other side are in the habit of describing as the House of the people. 
Here we have the position where the whole electorate is divided into segments and votes in its small segments. The system as we have it in the Senate, where the electorate votes as a whole State, is so big that nothing personal can be known and only the party affiliations can come through. In a sense my honourable friends on the other side of the chamber are quite right when they refer to us, rather than the Senate, as the House of the people. The Senate, of course, is elected by the same electors exactly but does not represent the rank and file in the same sense as we, the House of the people, represent the rank and file. 
This can be true also not simply for a State but also for a very big union. We have come to the position now where many of the unions have become monstrously big. They are spread over the whole of Australia. They have tens or even hundreds of thousands of members. In that kind of electorate which is so disseminated one cannot really have a rank and file election. It is very nice to talk about the rank and file, grass roots democracy and things like that but we have the same kind of situation as we have in the election of the Senate, something which my honourable friends on the other side are so keen on condemning as not really being the House of the people at all. Yet they want to say that, whether unions want it or not, willy-nilly they should not, in their view, have the opportunity of dividing up their electorate as we divide up the electorates of Australia into separate electorates when we elect members of this, the House of the people. So I am very much attracted by the simile which my friend the honourable member for Hindmarsh introduced. 
I think the position is this: Unless the Government allows at least the possibility of the collegiate system, it may be removing from the rank and file the real power to express themselves. What the Opposition is calling grass roots democracy is really a kind of phony, mass hysteria or mass organisation. My honourable friend will know that there has been in Australia a quite illegitimate link between the trade unions and the political party of the Australian Labor Party in this Parliament. That is something which I think is really offensive to every sense of political freedom. Why should a man's job in a union be tied up at all with the support of one side or another in this Parliament? The whole thing is really rather offensive. Yet if the collegiate system is barred altogether what will happen in point of fact is that the massive machine- the steamroller- will roll out the grass roots all right. The roller does go over the grass roots and perhaps like the cloves under the harrow the grass roots know about it sometimes. I think we have to be a little bit flexible and reasonable about this. If a union wants to have its elections in another form-if that really be the desire of members of the union and if they really want to express themselves in being able to have their elections in smaller packets like we have the elections to this House of Representatives as opposed to Senate elections- surely we should give them the opportunity. 
I want to speak very briefly to the amendment moved by the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns).  It seems to me that we would lose nothing by accepting it and we would gain something. I will be very brief and say that we are so much concerned, and rightly concerned, at the present moment with the problems of inflation that we sometimes forget that in the future we may face the problems of deflation. Therefore I think it is a good thing to substitute the word 'prices' for 'inflation' because prices can go up and can go down, and we would be covering either contingency if we did so. I will not go further than to say that I think the honourable member for Lilley has brought forward some sound common sense. I do not see why at the present moment the Government should have to wait for the Budget session to accept his amendment. It should accept it now. 
I move: 
Before paragraph (a) insert the following paragraph: '(aa) by inserting after the word ballot" in subparagraph (v) of paragraph (d) of sub-section (1) the following words: ", and where the ballot is not conducted under the authority of a Commonwealth Electoral Officer, the appointment of scrutineers by the Chief Commonwealth Electoral Officer on the same terms as the other scrutineers.".'. 
The effect of this proposed amendment is to provide that where the election is not under the control of the court- not a court controlled ballotthe Commonwealth Electoral Officer should have the right to appoint scrutineers.  Mr Chairman,  you will remember that originally the Government proposed that all ballots should be court controlled, but the trade unions asked, and the Government conceded their point, that where they wanted to they could conduct their own ballots. I hope that my proposed amendment will commend itself to both sides of the chamber. I do not know whether the Opposition will support it. I only know that the Opposition should support it because the effect of this proposed amendment is simply to ensure that the ballots be clean. I am not suggesting that all trade union ballots by any means are corrupt; nothing like that. We do know, however, that there have been occasions in the past when trade union ballots have been very corrupt. This has been evidenced by the protests by members of the Australian Labor Party themselves and by the decisions of the court from time to time on those protests. 
I hope that the Opposition will join with us in saying that it believes that ballots should be as clean as possible. There is no reason the Opposition should object to an outside scrutineer coming in on these same terms as the scrutineers who are appointed by the candidates. It may be asked: What more can a Commonwealth scrutineer do? I put 3 points to the Committee. Firstly, the Commonwealth scrutineers may be able to have resources which individual candidates at union elections might not be able to have, and they might be able to be present at the counts and at the strategic points to make certain that there is no corruption. Secondly, the Commonwealth scrutineers would be experienced people appointed by the Commonwealth Electoral Officer and able to detect malpractice and, therefore, not only prevent corruption but frighten off people who might otherwise attempt corrupt practices. Thirdly, the Commonwealth electoral officers would be able to report to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, and through the Minister to this House, if there were any corrupt practices. 
I am putting it quite simply that if the Opposition is genuine in its desire for clean ballots it will support this proposed amendment. If, on the other hand, the Opposition hopes for corrupt ballots in the unions, it will oppose this amendment. The amendment is very plain. It is not meant in any way to interfere with the trade union machinery. It is not meant in any way to put any coercion on the trade union in the way it conducts a ballot. Let it do so in accordance with its rules. This amendment is designed to see that when the union acts in accordance with its rules it acts cleanly and that there is no corruption. 
I could well understand that the Government might not want to push an amendment of this character if the trade unions refused to agree to it. After all, the Government is in a conciliatory frame of mind. It is trying to work in cooperation with the trade unions. So I think that, if the trade unions at the present moment were to say through the Opposition that they were opposed to this amendment, perhaps the Government would not want to press it. But I put this clearly and plainly to my friends opposite: If they oppose this amendment, they are showing themselves to be in favour of corrupt ballots. There is no other reason why they should oppose it. If they support it, they will be in the position of having clean hands and clean consciences and of being able to say: 'Not only do we want the trade unions to conduct their own ballots but also we want the trade unions to conduct them in a clean way'. 
It is perfectly true, as I have said, that even when a union conducts its own ballots it by no means follows that it is corrupt. The position is very much to the contrary. But there have been cases of corruption, and these have been particularly bad in the very large unions. For example, a long time ago- I will grant that it was many years ago- the Federated Ironworkers Union fell under the control of a corrupt clique headed by the communist Thornton. The clique monopolised union power and was thrown out only by a court controlled ballot. There was not the slightest doubt that large scale corruption existed in that union. We do not want that to recur. We do not want the suspicion of it to recur. After all, we have an interest in seeing not only that trade union ballots are clean but also that everybody admits them to be clean and concedes that they are clean. 
I put this proposition to my friends opposite: If they have any real support for the principle of clean union ballots, they will indicate their support of this amendment; but if they have some kind of hankering or underground desire to have corrupt ballots, they will indicate their opposition to this amendment. The Government has taken honourable members opposite at their word when they said that they wanted to control trade union ballots by their own machinery. The Government took them at their word when they said that there would be clean ballots. Was their word to be trusted or was it not to be trusted? They will show this by their attitude to this amendment. If they support it, they will be seen to be honest men. If they oppose it, they are under suspicion of trying to play a double game and asking for trade union control of ballots in order that corruption can be practised in them. 
-I quite understand the view of the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  and the fact that he does not want to stir up a hornet's nest over this matter. The amendment should not, he thinks, be pressed unless the trade unions accept it. However, I do not go along with the other arguments that have been put forward, either by the Minister or by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis).  It may be that the scrutineers will look to the candidates' interests. I know that they will. But they may not always be experienced men. There may not always be the resources in the candidates' hands to have sufficient scrutineers. It may well be that the addition of a Commonwealth scrutineer would add nothing. It could add something in some cases. But it could not do any harm, in any case at all. There is nothing to lose. 
The Minister asks: 'Well, what about the resources of the Commonwealth Electoral Office?' I do not think that that is a very good argument at all. Even though the resources may not be sufficient to cover every case, they would be sufficient to cover some cases. No harm could be done. The fact that there was an experienced man present able to advise the scrutineers of the candidates would prevent any corruption or any suspicion of corruption. 
Finally, let me come to the point made by the honourable member for Gellibrand when he said that there has not been very much corruption in the immediate past. What he means is that there has not been very much corruption found out and proved in the immediate past, which is a different matter altogether. If he will go around, as I have no doubt he does go around from time to time, among people who take pan as members in elections of trade unions, he will discover that in the rank and file there is very often a suspicion of corruption. Rank and file members say: 'We cannot prove this. There is no way of our taking action. We do not know about them, but we know that the game is crook. We know that some people who are elected should not be elected and have got in there by corrupt practices. We cannot convict them of it.' The suspicion may be unfounded. But I can assure my friend from Gellibrand- and I am certain that he needs no assurance from me on this matter- that this suspicion is most prevalent. It would be a good thing from his point of view really, if he wants clean ballots, and from the position of the Government or of the people of Australia, if the prevalent suspicions were silenced. 
These suspicions are prevalent. Perhaps they are justified. But the candidates do not always have the resources or the skill to do this work. Even when they find out something, they may not have it in sufficient form to go to the court. I think that this is a matter in respect of which we can say that nothing can be lost by adopting this course and something could be gained. I am surprised that my friends in the Opposition do not accept this amendment with alacrity. By the refusal of it, they have covered themselves in suspicion in this matter. I can understand the point of view of the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. The Minister said: 'I have made a compact with the trade unions for 2 years. I am not going to do anything without the consent of the trade unions in this regard '. 
My friends in the Opposition should surely see that if the trade unions are honest and if they want this proposal accepted- if they are honest, they would want it- it should be supported. I quite understand the position of the Minister. He says: 'I have perhaps unthinkingly made a compact with the trade unions without asking for scrutineers. Unless the trade unions and their representatives in this Parliament will help me I cannot go beyond that. I do not want to provoke any strife on this matter because I want to be cooperative with the unions'. I put it to Opposition members that if they are honest they will at least support this amendment in principle. If they do not support it, they make it incumbent upon the Minister, I suppose, to take the view that he has taken. But they also bring suspicion on themselves that they are acting corruptly when they try to keep the Commonwealth Electoral Office out of every trade union ballot. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill- by leave- taken as a whole. 
I was amused to hear the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  say a moment ago that ballots in the Liberal Party were corrupt because some members represent 20 per cent more electors than do other members. I understand that he has been a member of the ALP Executive, some members of which represent 1000 per cent more electors than do others. Does he call the ballots that elected him to his paid position corrupt? I put that to him. 
Last week I read the April-May issue of the  Abolition of the Means Test News,  which is the official organ of the Association for the Abolition of the Means Test Inc. I was surprised, and I think I was pleased as well, to find that the organisation's Speakers Notes for the case against the means test consisted of verbatim extracts from the 1972 Cabinet submission which I had made when I was a Minister. It was on this basis that I was able to induce the McMahon Government, in its 1972 Budget, to pledge itself to the abolition of the means test for everybody after the age of 65 years by the end of the year 1975. 
I must say that I was not only pleased but I was also flattered in a sense to find that these arguments which I had advanced as long ago as 1 972 were now being put forward by this institution as the  Speakers Notes  for the case against the means test. I believe that what I said then was correct and I hope that it will achieve through this organisation and elsewhere the widest dissemination. 
The parts quoted from the Cabinet submissionand they are quoted verbatim- were not in any respect confidential. I seek leave therefore for the incorporation of this particular article in Hansard. 
I thank the House. I would like to summarise the 10 arguments which I brought forward. I remind the House of them because I believe they are as valid today as they were then. I am only going to summarise them. I said that the arguments against the maintenance of the means test on age pensions may be summarised as follows: 
The first is that the means test is inequitable. It deprives people of the benefit of their own thrift and efforts. 
The second is that the administration of the means test involves anomalies, and this is particularly so when there is a cut-off point, as there is. We all know from our experience as members of Parliament how these anomalies arise. 
The third is that the means test debars or discourages retired people from taking casual or part-time work if they want to do so. This is very often something that militates against their health and survival because nothing induces early death more than enforced retirement and idleness when people do not want it. I am not suggesting that retired people should in any sense be compelled to work. I would rather say that if they want to work part-time they should be given every opportunity to do so. 
The fourth point I made was that people tend to arrange their affairs so as to escape the means test. This has undesirable effects. 
The fifth point I made was that the nature of the means test distorts investment by inducing people to prefer 'exempt' assets and thus to undertake wasteful expenditure. 
The sixth point I made was that the means test is an invitation to cheating and it puts a premium on underhand practices. 
The seventh point was that the means test humiliates old people because those who administer it must of necessity pry into the private affairs of these people and in a sense it makes the age pension 'odious '. 
The eighth point was that the means test impedes socially desirable transfers of property from parents to children and penalises past transfers in a way that is sometimes inequitable. 
The ninth point was that the application of the means test has become complex and it creates confusion and this creates resentments. 
The tenth point was that the existence of the means test on the basic age pension makes it difficult to formulate a satisfactory scheme of national superannuation. 
As I have said, none of this matter is confidential. I will look at the remainder of the submission to see whether it could conveniently be published without any breach of confidentiality. The material was not given by me to this organisation and in fact it has not been made available by me for publication. It has, I think, been made available to the National Superannuation Committee of Inquiry whose report was released to this House only a few days ago. I am glad to see that many of the things that I have advocated are advocated also in the report of this Committee. May I at this moment say to the House that there is a majority report as well as a minority report and that I would be in favour of the minority report of the Committee rather than the majority report. I do not think there should be a compulsory levy for a national superannuation scheme. I would rather incline therefore to the views put forward by  Mr Hedley  in the minority report, but in both the majority report and in the minority report there are included many things which I did in point of fact advocate and which I hope will eventually be adopted. I said in my 1972 Cabinet submission which was quoted: 
The existence of the present means test is an effective bar to the adoption of any sensible scheme of national superannuation. 
This is a view which has commended itself to the Committee of Inquiry whose report is now before us. Honourable members will see that both the majority report and the minority report adopt that principle. 
So I am, as I said, surprised and pleased that this organisation has seen fit to publish some parts of the Cabinet submission on which I was able to induce the McMahon Government to adopt the principle of abolition of the means test for all over the age of 65 and to aim to make that effective by the end of 1 975. 
Now I come to the present position, because 1975 is of course behind us and we are coming up to another Budget. I realise that the finances of the country were thrown into chaos by the previous Government and some things have happened which were not at the time of that submission then in contemplation, but I do not think those things should impair the abolition of the means test in the forthcoming Budget. I am quite clear and definite as to that. 
I am not going to raise at this moment the differences between myself and the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  as to the nature of what he is pleased to call the deficit and which I do not think is properly a deficit at all, nor at present will I raise the importance of the so-called deficit in framing Treasury policy. In this it seems to me that the present Treasurer is falling into the same error as his predecessor, the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  fell into when he presented his Budget. This is, therefore, a criticism which I am making on a bipartisan basis. I would hope that there would not be in the framing of the next Budget the same obsession with the deficit as seems to have been evidenced by the present Treasurer and by his immediate Labor predecessor. I hope that both will see what I describe as the error in their ways in this regard. 
I would therefore press strongly that the Government does not forget that in 1972 the Liberal Party was able to promise abolition of the means test by the end of 1975 if it had then been elected. In the present circumstances, realising the effects of the financial damage which Labor caused in its 3 years in office, I would still hope that something effective would be done on the means test front when the Treasurer brings forward the Budget for this coming year. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I hope that we will be approaching this matter not to criticise one side or the other but to try to do the best for the Aboriginal people. We have to admit that while there has been progress over the past six or seven years in some aspects, in other aspects there has been a retrogression, and certainly in the north and the centre of Australia things for the Aborigines are not as good now as they were a few years ago. 
I am not just saying that the money that has been spent has been spent inefficiently. I am saying something worse. Some of it has been spent in a way which has done harm to the Aboriginal people. I think this question has to be looked at from the point of their advantage. We are failing in our training of Aboriginal people to do things for themselves, particularly in the housing and construction field. I know some people say that you cannot train an Aboriginal to be a builder. I do not believe this. I have been in the field with Aborigines. They are very ingenious people. They have a great facility with their hands. They are able to do things with material which perhaps we would not be able to do ourselves. 
Let me recite to the House a little history. In western New South Wales artesian bores were put down before the end of last century. Many of them were put down by Aboriginal teams with Aboriginal foremen. This is history. So it is no use telling me that we cannot teach these people, that they are incapable of learning. The fault, I think, in recent years lies with us rather than with them. We have failed to teach them, for example, the building skills which they can, I am quite certain, acquire to do things for themselves. Let us do a little self-examination. In the past Aboriginals have been able to do things for themselves. It is much harder to use a percussion drill to put down a bore a couple of thousand feet than it is to build a house. They put down these bores. This is history. I believe we can do better. I hope we will. 
The question is not just one of money. We should not be niggardly with money. We are not being niggardly with money. It is not just a question of doing more by spending more. It is also a question, the realities of which we must face, that in the last 5, 6 or 7 years some things for Aboriginals in the Northern Territory, for example, or the centre of Australia have not gone forward; they have gone backward. I think this may be due very largely to the fact that we have spent too much too quickly trying to change too quickly. Where we meant, with the best intentions, to do good, we have in some cases, not all, ended up doing harm to the Aboriginal people. It is not a case of our trying to salve our guilty consciences or anything like that. One thing we must keep in mind is that in this program we are not concerned with ourselves; we are concerned with the Aboriginal people, their interests and their advancement. To give a child too much money too quickly may not always be to its advantage. Perhaps we have been guilty in this regard, not through any lack of good intention but sometimes through lack of practical application, not knowing what we were doing and not knowing the consequences. I ask members of this House to go to the tribal areas in the centre of Australia, northern Queensland, northern Australia and the Northern Territory and look. They will see what I mean. 
I wish to raise a minor matter. It refers to clause 3 of the Bill. I regard the definition as imprecise and tautologous. It states:  'Aboriginals' means persons who are- 
members of the Aboriginal race of Australia; or 
members of the race to which Torres Strait Islanders belong. 
It is simply that. What does that mean? It says that Aboriginals are Aboriginals. This begs all the questions. A member of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence can also be a member of the Privileges Committee, but a member of the Senate cannot be a member of the House of Representatives at the same time. Can a person be a member of 2 races at the same time? A person of total Aboriginal blood is an Aboriginal. A person of total European blood is a European. What about the person who is half of each? Perhaps he is of either race. What about the person who is one-sixteenth or onethirtysecond Aborigine? To which race does he belong, or does he belong to 2 races? Can a person belong to 2 races just as some persons can have dual nationality. These are quite important questions which are not dealt with in this clause. I believe that, not for the purposes of this Act but the the purposes of other Acts, we should be adding words which confine the definition to those people who claim to be Aboriginals and who are accepted as Aboriginals in the community with which they are associated. This, I think, is very important when we are talking of the Northern Territory, the north of Western Australia or the north of Queensland. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
-I give notice that at the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That in the opinion of this House the policy of high interest rates which characterised the administration of the preceding Labor Government has already been too long maintained. 
This House therefore urges this Government to use its available powers to bring about a substantial reduction of interest rates in Australia. 
Further, this House expresses the opinion that the powers in the hands of the Government are quite adequate to achieve this purpose without any undesirable repercussions, if only the Government would exercise them resolutely and prudently. 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That this House is of the opinion that, at the forthcoming conference with the Premiers, in June 1976, the Commonwealth should advocate a massive increase in public loan programs in order to absorb into useful works the surplus of l abour, plant and materials which is at present lying wasted and unused throughout Australia. 
Further, that this House urges the Government to exercise its undoubted power to see that finance is made available for the expanded works program without either reducing the resources available to private enterprise or increasing interest rates. 
Further, that this House rejects the delusion that the speedier restoration of health to the Australian economy would necessarily have an adverse effect on inflation and, on the contrary, holds to the view that the continuance of the low grade depression which characterised the administration of the preceding Labor Government does in fact expose Australia to unnecessary social and financial stress and, in the long run, contributes to the maintenance of inflation. 
-My question is directed to the Treasurer and refers to the last Treasury statement of monthly transactions for the first 10 months of this financial year. I would ask one of the attendants to take a copy of it down to the Treasurer so he can refresh his mind before answering my question in regard to it. 

 -Yes, Sir. Is the Treasurer aware that at the time of the preparation of the last Labor Budget a Treasury submission was made to Cabinet which said that in that Budget $4.7 billion worth of capital works was to be included as part of the so-called deficit. Is this figure of $4.7 billion roughly in accord with the $4.8 billion which was shown in the subsequently published Budget papers. If he will refresh his mind by looking at the - 
-I seek to make a personal explanation. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) In connection with his statement that the withdrawal of taxation rebates from the husband in respect of his dependent children would be approximately balanced by additional children's allowances to his wife so that the total family income would be virtually unaffected by the contemplated financial package, is it possible that an anomaly could arise where a divorced husband is supporting his dependent children so that the new arrangements, in place of rearranging the family income, would result in a transfer of money from one family to another. 
) If so. is any action contemplated to meet this apparent anomaly. 
-On behalf of the back bench I would like to join in the very deserved tributes that have been paid to Bill Bridgman. I think that only the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  and I have been here since 1949. Of course, I have had little to say and have not been putting much burden on  Hansard  but I know that in my years of retirement when I look through the volumes of  Hansard  I will be asking: 'Well, was I ever able to say that?' My words will have been so much improved by the inimitable art of  Mr 
Bridgman. I have been associated with him particularly in the introduction of the daily  Hansard  and I recall with pleasure what he did in that regard. I do not think that without his encouragement and help we would ever have achieved that particular reform. I think that the honourable member for Hindmarsh is waiting to say something in this regard. He and I, as perhaps the longest serving members in this chamber at the present moment, would certainly wish to be associated in a tribute to what has been done for us. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, funnily enough- it is almost without precedent- the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  quoted me correctly. He quoted from  Hansard.  Indeed, I said those things, and I said them not without reason. I hope that they will prove to be untrue, but I am not by any means assured that they will prove to be untrue, nor do I think that the country can take any assurance that they are untrue. At the present moment there is a split between the two communist giants- the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and communist Red China. Both of those countries say of one another the things which I was saying in the House at the time when I made those remarks which the honourable member for Chifley quoted. Perhaps both of them are right. 
I do not think we should worry about that vacuous clown- old rent-a-mouth from Chifley- because this is a matter of most serious import. We do not know at this moment who is going to use or refrain from using the nuclear weapons which certainly now exist in Chinese hands as we know they certainly exist in Russian hands. There is what is known as a balance of terror in the world. Neither side, whether it be in the cleavage between Russia and China or in the cleavage between the communists and the democratic world, dare resort to the kind of force that could destroy both it and the people it attacks. That is the state of the world now, and nothing that is said, even by that honourable and influential man, the honourable member for Chifley, is going to change that state. Ever since I have been in the House, and that is now some 25 years, I have endeavoured to awaken the conscience of the House and of the country to what is happening in the world. 
Do not think that you are safe. It would have been far better if the bomb had not been allowed to proliferate, but proliferate it has. The honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James),  who is now interjecting, and the honourable member for Chifley both stand, as I do and as every Australian does, as everybody in the world does, in the shadow of this danger. This dreadful thing has come to pass. It is unhappily the position that none of us is safe. None of us or our children will ever be safe. Any honourable member who thinks that his conscience is clear when he has mocked and laughed at anybody who tried to warn of what was to happen should think again. I for one have nothing whatsoever to unsay in regard to this matter. All I have been trying to do is ensure that we and our children and the rest of the world escape from the monstrous danger in which we stand today and in which we will stand for the rest of time unless somebody finds it in his heart to bring about the detonation of a bomb or, alternatively, unless a new way of thought envelops the whole of humanity. 
-My question is directed to the Treasurer and is supplementary to a question asked of him by the honourable member for Petrie. I ask: Has the Treasurer's attention been directed to the views expressed some days ago by Professor  Sir Leslie  Melville, the most experienced and respected Australian economist, advocating the devaluation of the Australian dollar as an essential element in Australia's economic recovery? Does he recall that  Sir Leslie  Melville was for some decades the economist for the Commonwealth Bank and that he served on the Board of that bank when it exercised the functions of the Reserve Bank, and subsequently on the Board of the Reserve Bank? Does he agree that a man as experienced as that would not express such views publicly unless he considered it to be absolutely essential to do so and that he certainly would not express them irresponsibly? Has the Treasurer considered the possibility that overseas authorities who have endeavoured to dissuade him from this devaluation may not have been entirely objective, that is, that when they were offering him this advice they may have been looking to the trading interests of their own countries and not to the interests of Australia? In the circumstances, will he agree to keep an open mind - 
-I daresay that honourable members will have noticed that in the King's Hall recently Governor Macquarie's sword and dirk have been exhibited. They were purchased for the nation and have an honoured place in the hall just outside the chamber. Earlier this week the Press in a report of proceedings of the Public Accounts Committee used the headline 'Illegal' to describe this purchase. However, the Committee's criticism was directed solely to Treasury mechanics and not in any sense to the substance of this transaction. I want to let the House know that there were matters of speed and urgency in this transaction and that the transaction was in substance entirely proper, although the mechanics were in some respects wrong. On 31 May last  Major Miller  of the Victoria Barracks in Sydney contacted me and advised me that Macquarie's sword and dirk were coming up for auction in Sydney in the following week and asked whether I would assist in acquiring these articles for a military museum or some other historical repository. I was able to find an authority in Sydney who could verify the authenticity of these relics. I contacted the Prime Minister who arranged for appropriate action to be taken by  Senator Withers  which resulted in the purchase of the articles at auction for $7,500. 
I am sure that the House and all those outside it who have any sense of history will join me in congratulating the Prime Minister and the Government on the prompt action which they took and on its successful outcome. I now come to the mechanics of the matter. Before the purchase was made funds apparently were authorised through a Treasury warrant on the advance account. Unfortunately by some departmental oversight this warrant was not presented until after the end of the financial year. In the meantime the payment was debited to the wrong line in the accounts. This irregularity in procedure was the matter brought to the attention of the Public Accounts Committee. This was the sole reason for criticism. 
The sword and dirk unquestionably belonged to Macquarie. I have ascertained that after his death they passed to the possession of a  Mr Drummond,  who was the executor of his will, and who subsequently became Lord Strathallan. They remained in the Strathallan family for about a century and were then acquired by the late  Sir John  Ferguson, the famous collector of Australiana. The curved sword would have been worn by Macquarie as  Colonel of  his regiment while serving in India and it would have been brought by him to Australia. It is fitting that these relics of the Governor who first had the vision of Australia as a nation- the Old Viceroy as he was known- should now rest in the central hall of the Australian Parliament. 
There are 3 things of note in that hall. We have a copy of Magna Carta which is very rightly described as the foundation of our parliamentary liberties and really the foundation of the British and Australian democracies. We have the table on which Queen Victoria signed the proclamation for our Constitution, and that set up this Parliament as the federation of the Australian colonies. But co-ordinate with them, and I would think of parallel or comparable importance with them, are the relics of Governor Macquarie. We all know and we all admit- I think with some pride- that our origins come from the British Constitution, from the British people. This is what Australia as a nation comes from. We have 
Magna Carta which, as I have said, is the foundation stone on which parliamentary liberties were founded. We have the proclamation which sets up the Australian Constitution. 
-Yes sir. I beg your pardon. We also have this sword of Macquarie which in some way symbolises the way in which Britain has contributed- we as British people are grateful- to the foudation of this Australian nation. 
-This is a time for us to reaffirm our friendship for the Chinese people and to express the hope that the death of Mao will usher in a new and better era for them and for the world. 
Mao Tse-tung took charge of a China which was weak, divided and exhausted, and created a nation which was unified, formidable and dedicated to the destruction of freedom. It is perhaps pardonable that, as we tremble, we should also praise, but it would be unpardonable if that praise were unleavened. 
To subdue fratricidal factions, to bring order out of chaos, to organise the masses for their own better living is always commended, even if it is not always entirely commendable. We rightly derided those who praised Mussolini for making the Italian trains run on time, and for sure the  Chairman  faced a far worse situation than did II Duce. But Mao murdered a thousand times as many of his own countrymen as Mussolini ever did and destroyed ten times as many of their freedoms. He made a prison and called it peace. 
It is plausible to say that he had no alternative and that the Chinese masses could have been controlled by no gentler means. But against that conjecture there stands the hard fact of Taiwan. There on an island half the size of Tasmania Chiang Kai-shek, without resort to comparable violence, found the means to organise 1 7 million people and to give them a standard of living far higher than those on the rich mainland had ever attained. The island microcosm confutes the mainland colossus. 
It was Mao, with his tactics of treachery and terror, who drove Chiang Kai-shek from the mainland and prevented the application there of the milder tactics which were so successful in Taiwan. Perhaps, but for the misguided General Marshall, aided and abetted by ignorance and worse from Washington and Canberra, a better road may have opened for the Chinese people.  Disaliter visum. 
Three men in this last half century have attained supreme power- Hitler, Stalin and Mao- and it is no accident that they had so much in common. Hitler failed and was unmasked before he fell, so that no one praised him in his death. Many praised the dead Stalin before they realised the true nature of the monster. And most now praise Mao. For him, the verdict of history may well depend upon who writes it. 
It is the fashion now to speak well of Mao because Chinese communism provides some counterpoise to Russian communism. It may indeed continue to do so, though those who recall the Nazi-Soviet Pact of 1939 may well doubt the permanence of totalitarian tensions, however they may be protested and especially when they are protested too much. Even if you lick one boot, you cannot rely on the feet fighting each other. 
We may choose to ignore the basic Marxist militancy, but at least we should not forget that the primary split between the 2 communist giants occurred because Moscow would not accept Mao's urging to risk nuclear war and face a world holocaust. That occurred nearly 20 years ago when China, having then no nuclear weapons, could only urge and could not herself act. 
Maoism has subjected the Chinese people to an alien ideology and has denied them all their traditional life and culture. It has demanded the rejection of all family ties and accepted decencies, culminating in its assault of Confucianism. For religion it has substituted the ritual nonsense of the Little Red Book, the analogue of the ridiculous 'Heil Hitler' of the Nazi discipline. 
Will the Chinese people now have the wisdom and courage to abandon these moronic aspects of Maoism and reassert their historic values? The question is not academic because Mao has tried to cut off all their roots and 800 million rootless people would be a menace to the whole world. People who have cast out their cultural values need something to rill the empty house, and the communist ideology has plenty of its own selfproclaimed devils. If Maoism persists eventually there will be another Genghis Khan and the new golden horde will have nuclear weapons strapped to its saddles. 
And so, as we hope that the Chinese people will be partners in a peaceful world, we must realise that this will depend largely upon their replacement of Maoism by something bettersomething which retains at least part of the Chinese values and culture in which for so long they have taken such proper pride. Mao has indeed given them material power, but with that power he has left them a dreadful legacy. 

 De Mortuis nil nisi bonum they say. But this is no private death, and may no word be spoken in rebuttal of misleading adulation. 
Mine is a small voice and in the larger tumult of the world even the strongest voice from this Parliament would be little heard. But if no man may speak, what hope is there for any man? 
The mess left by the Labor Government was rather worse than anticipated, and nobody should expect it to be cleaned up overnight. Nevertheless the present pace of recovery is altogether too slow. It is only in the last few weeks that any real signs of economic revival have appeared, and even these are patchy and may be no more than seasonal. 
Certainly the recovery is slower than the Government expected. For each of the last S months we have had Treasury predictions that the economy had bottomed and that the upswing was in progress, and each time so far the prediction has been falsified by the event. What has gone wrong? When the Government has such good intentions, why have things not turned out better? 
It seems certain now that the Treasury has misread the economic climate, and has landed the Government with a policy which is altogether too restrictive. This is not the first time it has done so. Only last week the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr William McMahon)  told the House of similar bad urgings from the Treasury in 1971, when he was Prime Minister; and I know from my own experience as a Minister during those years how superficial and misleading the Treasury advice often was. Some parts of the last Labor Treasurer's Budget Speech in 1975 show how he, too, had fallen for the same unhelpful Treasury line. 
This year the Treasury has urged upon the Government new and savage taxes such as television licences and a Medibank levy in excess of 3.5 per cent for example, which the Government has had the good sense to reject. But still the main Treasury line, which remains altogether too restrictive, and which strangles recovery in its cradle, has obtained too much acceptance. 
One of the reasons for these Treasury blunders is that its economic intelligence is faulty. Too often- and this I know first hand from my own personal experience- it relies upon out-of-date statistics to evaluate current trends and shape future policy. This lag in thinking, the reliance upon past historical data, is one of the roots of our present troubles. 
But it is not the only root, and it is certainly not the main root. Recently I have been appalled at the way in which our Treasury pundits, from their synthetic ivory bureaux, sneer at Keynesian concepts and use their sneers to justify an approach which is not just pre-Keynesian but positively antediluvian. It is even more appalling to observe how they have tricked their innocent and ignorant disciples into repeating their superficialities and promoting them as the latest enlightenment. Look how they regale us with the crudities of the Phillips curve, even if they clothe the curve decently in a dress of good intentions! 
Let me list- in the time available to me I shall have no time to discuss- 6 cardinal errors in Treasury thinking which have contributed towards the present unacceptable economic stagnation. 
First, the Treasury is obsessed by what it is pleased to call a 'deficit', but which really is not a deficit at all, but only that part of the capital works program which is not funded from the revenue surplus. Last year that mythical 'deficit' was more than covered by loan raisings on the market, and there is no reason to expect any different results this year. Because of its obsession with this mythical 'deficit' the Treasury has made it impossible for the Government to reduce taxes adequately as one means of strengthening incentive and of reducing production costs. This obsession has also inhibited a reasonable program of selected capital works, which would have stimulated the economy and provided the infrastructure for the expansion of private industry. 
Furthermore, the misdescription of the capital program as a 'deficit' has somehow raised the impression that we were spending extravagantly and could not keep it up. Use of this emotive word has operated against the confidence which the Treasury alleges it needs to engender throughout the community, and has thus retarded recovery. 
It was right to prune the extravagances of the Labor Budget, and action to reduce expenditure on current services has much to commend it. It is quite a different thing to apply that same principle to valuable capital works at a time when we have unused resources of men and materials, and when the revival of private enterprise can be so much helped by public expenditure upon things which are needed by the community or which would provide the infrastructure for future industrial ventures by the private sector. 
Second, the Treasury has acquiesced in the maintenance of high interest rates, which in Australia are right out of line with the rates which private and commercial borrowers have to pay in most other parts of the world. It has covered up its inadequacies by the specious spiel that it has restricted public issues, which might 'crowd out' private raisings. But surely even the Treasury knows that quite effective instruments to combine reduced interest rates with a reasonable program to take up the economic slack lie in its hands- if only it would use them. Instead its policy is counterproductive, for we are given the egregious target of 12 per cent growth in the money supply for the year- a target which takes no account of the unpredictable changes which may take place in the velocity of money, as the public, the holders of bank balances, makes up its mind to spend or not to spend. 
The 12 per cent target may well prove too low, or may well prove too high- it is the setting of a target without reference to possible changes in circulation which is so naive. The ability to increase the money supply until velocity builds up under its pressure, and to decrease supply when that greater velocity occurs, is at the heart of rational money management and is itself a potent weapon against high interest rates. 
If the market knows that the Treasury is prepared to use its weapons against high interest rates, then that knowledge by itself will tend to drive interest rates down, without any use of the monetary weapons at all. Conversely, if the market knows that the Treasury has signalled its reluctance to punch in advance, the market will tend to harden its rates. This is the first occasion when such a policy has been publicly announced in a Budget Speech. Why close your optionseven tentatively? 
Third, the Treasury's approach to overseas transactions often appears to conform to the interests of international finance rather than to the interests of Australia. Acceptance of industrial stagnation involves a quite formidable growth in the deficit on our current account overseasa real deficit expected to approach $1.5 billion for 1976-77, and which may shoot ahead alarmingly in the first phase of any consumer recovery. With our overseas balances of some $2.5 billion, we could stave off things for a year or so, provided that there was no capital outflow, but in reality the Treasury policy has now made us suppliants for capital inflow. 
Suppliants do not always get the best of international deals, and capital inflow eventually has got to be paid for. We should welcome overseas investment when it brings us access to new markets for our exports, or to technology otherwise unavailable, or where it has a defence significance. But, apart from this, we would have no need for overseas capital if our own exports were to expand as they should, and our own manufacturers were to use their idle plant to produce some of the things we now import. 
Too bad if the Treasury brings the Australian economy to its knees, so that we have to depend on international capital to rescue us on its own terms! Too bad for us, that is; international capital would see the process in reverse. Treasury reluctance to face up to the need for immediate devaluation, to close the money gap between our costs and costs overseas- a gap far too wide to be closed by deflation- is part of the trouble. 
Fourth, the Treasury has allowed itself to become over-obsessed with inflation as the sole economic ill. Sure, inflation is dangerous, but it is not the only danger and, in fact, can provide one of those cases where sometimes the doctors are more to be feared than the disease. The eighteenth century surgeon had one panacea- bleeding- which sometimes killed patients who would otherwise have recovered. Some of our twentieth century economists have one cure for our present economic troubles- restriction- and may sometimes do more harm than good. 
It is not, however, this aspect of the Treasury's inflation-fixation to which I direct attention, but rather to its misplaced confidence that, once it can stop inflation by its drastic measures, employment will automatically recover. Admittedly it is not entirely wrong, in that the consumer fears to spend under present uncertainties- - but it is fear of unemployment, not inflation, which deters consumption, and it is fear of recession, not inflation, which deters investment. 
Expectation of inflation has, in fact, the opposite effect. It induces consumers to spend before the value of their money erodes, and it induces investors to buy their equipment before prices rise. Indeed it is rightly said that the real danger of inflation lies in the feed-back, the fever of overspending. Whatever the Australian economy is suffering from today it is certainly no such fever. 
If we get our wish to end the expectation of inflation before the economy recovers, we may find the economy recedes still further, when whatever stimulus that comes from that expectation ceases to operate. It could be a monkey's paw situation- where we get our wish and find that it brings consequences both unforeseen and undesired. 
Fifth, the Treasury seems to be overconcerned with wage rates, and not sufficiently concerned with industrial disruption. Both these bear upon the cost of production, but the latter would now seem to be the more important. If we could end strikes which are planned to sabotage efficient production, even the present wage rates would become tolerable. 
Let it be conceded that this is a mixed situation, where the Treasury is partly right. A certain degree of unemployment does make a man value his job, and does induce better industrial discipline. But the argument must not be pressed too hard. If unemployment is endemic it will be harder to get acceptance of the termination of unreasonable industrial practices, which are aimed at creating extra jobs, and which unreasonably inflate costs. In a progressive economic climate, where unemployment is no threat to those willing to work, this process of reducing industrial feather-bedding, while never easy, is at least easier. 
Fear of unemployment may not be the only reason why jobs are valued; some are better paid than others, so that margins are an essential part of the industrial order. The current Treasury policy of plateau-indexation tends to reduce margins and therefore to erode industrial discipline. This negative effect, unimportant perhaps over the short run, may become eventually of predominant significance. The Treasury may defend plateau-indexation as an emergency measure- it would be nice if we could be sure that the longterm effect had not been overlooked. 
The whole question of the relationship between wage rates on the one hand and production costs on the other is highly complex and cannot be argued here. All that can be said in the short time available to me is that the Treasury approach, concentrating as it does upon wage rates to the exclusion of other factors, seems to be over-simplistic, and that a better-balanced view is called for. 
Sixth- and perhaps most importantly- there is the proposition, implicit in the whole Treasury approach, that a quick economic recovery is necessarily unsound, and that therefore slow recovery is preferable, because it is somehow inherently sounder. This I would consider to be the exact opposite of the truth. 
A slow and drawn-out recovery is unsound because: 
It leads to future distortion and inefficiency in industry. Plants get moth-balled, so that they are hard to start again and tend to be out of date when the time comes for them to reopen; the skilled labour force gets dispersedperhaps relocated hundreds of miles away under the new scheme- so that skilled men are no longer available when the economy recovers and they are wanted in their old industry. Thus the whole industrial machine gets out of balance, and recovery can even be impeded by shortages of critical materials at the time things start to improve. 
It creates social tensions, and leaves a legacy of industrial bitterness, which left wing elements understandably exploit. A cohort of school leavers is introduced to idleness at its most impressionable age, and impressions thus gained are not only persistent but may also be infectious. 
It involves a loss of production during the whole slack period. This loss- the years that the locust has eaten- is irretrievable, and may lead to increased imports as a substitute for the goods which should have been locally produced, or to decreased exports from the lack of the activity of export industries. So it may saddle the economy with an unnecessary overseas debt, which remains as a burden until repaid. 
It tends to lock the economy into high future interest rates, because during the slack period long term loans will have been raised at high rates of interest. 
Is there any point in deliberately subjecting a patient to a long and debilitating illness when a quicker cure is available? When cured, will he be stronger for the long sickness? 
Australian wage costs- which arise from a combination of wage rates and industrial practicesare so far out of line with overseas wage costs that the gap cannot be bridged without some change in the terms of overseas trade. The best and fairest way to make this change is by a devaluation of the Australian dollar, and the sooner we face up to this devaluation the better. Otherwise we shall continue to lose export opportunities, and we may find ourselves overwhelmed by a flood of imports, which we should then have to stem by emergency tariffs and quotas before our international reserves run out. It would be foolish to defer action until our only recourse would be to bolster these reserves by overseas investment. If we find overseas investors, it would then only be on terms which would jeopardise our financial future. 
In short, what is needed now is: First, tax reduction, especially directed toward cost reduction; second, a reasonable program of capital works, to be tapered off when the economy picks up; third, the prudent use of monetary mechanisms to reduce interest rates; fourth, a speedy devaluation of the dollar, to protect both exporters and home manufacturers. 
The present Budget, well-intentioned though it is, envisages the continuation of a quite dangerous stagnation. If one of its by-products should turn out to be the loss of Government at the next election and the reinstatement of a Labor Party- a Party politically, socially and internationally disastrous- then indeed Australia would lose on all fronts.  (Quorum formed.)  We should remind ourselves in time that the road to socialism is paved with good intentions. It would be ironic if the road-builders were innocent but misguided anti-socialists. 
Let us get some steerage way on the ship of State, and avoid these catastrophes. The Government's intentions are excellent; all that is needed is a better way of putting them into practice. 
-The Governor-General 's action of dismissing the Whitlam Labor Government was right, proper and constitutional and of that there can be no doubt. Nor can there be any doubt that in its honest times the Australian Labor Party approved of that action. It was only a year or so before the 1972 election that the Leader of the Australian Labor Party in this House and the Leader of the Australian Labor Party in the Senate both threatened to use all their powers to do exactly that. They said that this was the right thing to do, that they had a right to use the powers of the Senate to bring down a government and cause an election. They said this. This was their interpretation of the Constitution in their honest times. Now the members of the Australian Labor Party whip themselves into some synthetic fury for party purposes. I say this to them: They are doing a grave disservice to Australia because they are supporting a thesis which in their hearts they know is unsupportable. They are putting forward a proposition and trying to stir up trouble in the most irresponsible way. 
Having said that, may I say this also: It was only a chance, in a way, that at the last double dissolution the Governor-General was able to act in that manner, because there were the ingredients of a double dissolution, irrespective of any question of Supply. That may not always occur. I do think, without in any way impugning what the Governor-General did because I support it 100 per cent, that it would be desirable to amend the Constitution so as to provide that under these circumstances there should always be a double dissolution. I think also that it would be a good thing to amend the Constitution so that under these circumstances there must be a double dissolution. The Senate does not act irresponsibly. If it is itself at risk, if all its members have to face the people, it will not act irresponsibly. There is nothing undemocratic in any way in calling for an election when one of the Houses of Parliament, properly and in accordance with the Constitution, believes that the Government should obtain a new mandate for what it is doing. There is nothing improper or undemocratic about that. It is for these purposes that I have drawn and will present to the Parliament, I hope in the course of the next few weeks, a private member's Bill to amend the Constitution so as to provide that there should be an automatic double dissolution when the Senate rejects Supply and at the same time to provide that there shall not be this situation in which the Senate can send one House to the people without itself going to the people. Let me make these constitutional points quite clear. I shall hope to do so again when I present a Bill to the House for this purpose in the course of the next few weeks. It is drawn. It has been printed. It is ready for presentation at this present moment. 
Let me turn to another constitutional point. It arises from an incident yesterday. I think that we were all shocked to hear what had happened to  Mr Speaker  in respect of a certain proposal that he had made which had been arbitrarily turned down by a Minister. I now put a constitutional point which I have put before as a member of the Library Committee of this House and which I believe is a proper constitutional point. Section 56 of the Constitution states: 
A vote, resolution, or proposed law for the appropriation of revenue or moneys shall not be passed unless the purpose of the appropriation has in the same session been recommended by message of the Governor-General to the House . . . 
This is written into the Constitution. But I ask: For this purpose, who is the proper adviser to the Governor-General? The proper adviser to the Governor-General for this purpose- an appropriation for the purposes of the Parliament- is not any Minister. The proper adviser to the Governor-General is the  Speaker  of the House of Representatives and the  President  of the Senate. I have no doubt of that whatsoever. I am sorry that over the past 70 years this Parliament has been in operation our Presidents and Speakers have not stood up for their rights. But these are their rights. This Parliament is independent of the Ministry and it is an impertinence for a Minister to think that he can dictate to or in any way control this Parliament. This Parliament- this is fundamental to all democracy- is over and above the Ministers. It has been a perversion of the proper rule of law that over the past 70 years or so the advisers to the Governor-General for the purposes of making an appropriation for the Parliament have been Ministers and not  Mr Speaker  and the  President. 
We go through the ritual at the beginning of a session of Parliament of presenting a Bill- it may be the Acts Interpretation Act or something like that- which is supposed to be a gesture of defiance of the Crown. This is its ritual purpose. But we have made the ritual a farce because the ritual is carried out by none other than a servant of the Crown- a Minister in this Parliament. This makes nonsense of what should have been and could be a meaningful ritual. Let me come back to this quite important constitutional point: I believe that the position in which  Mr Speaker  or  Mr President  was put is utterly and completely indefensible. We, as members of this House, or the members of the Senate should not allow the  Speaker  or the  President  to be put in this kind of position. In the Table of Precedence, the  Speaker  and the  President  have high places and they are entitled to them. The office of  Speaker  of this House is no small office. It is not inferior to the office of Minister. The  Speaker  of this House and the  President  of the Senate, within the appropriations that have been made by this House or the Senate on the advice, recommendation, or message of the Governor-General and for which they are the proper advisers, should be beholden to nobody. They are the servants of this House and of nobody else in their office. I put it to the House as a matter of quite high constitutional importance that what has happened to  Mr Speaker-  he recounted it to the House yesterdayshould never have been allowed to happen. It was a piece of utter impertinence by a Minister unless there were no monies appropriated by this House. If there were no monies appropriated by this House, then obviously  Mr Speaker  has no monies that he can draw upon. But I put it to the House that when we are looking to these parliamentary appropriations we should do so in terms of section 56 of the Constitution, the terms of which are repeated in standing order 292 of this House. We should receive the GovernorGeneral's message, but that message should be framed on the advice of  Mr Speaker.  Of course, it is then up to the House either to accept or to reject the message that has been given to it. I ask,  Mr Speaker,  that you should assert your rights in this respect. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
With reference to the figure of $720m mentioned on the third last line of page 128 of 1976-77 Budget Paper No. I. 
on what date or dates did these transactions take place, and what was their amount on each date; and 
did the Commonwealth Bank suggest to the Treasury that the Bank's trading portfolio should be supplemented in this way; if so, on what date was the suggestion made. 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That in the opinion of this House the proper adviser of the Governor-General in relation to the discharge of his duties under section 56 of the Constitution insofar as they relate to the appropriation of revenue or moneys for the services of this House is not a Minister but  Mr Speaker. 
That  Mr Speaker  should wait upon the Governor-General to acquaint him with this resolution. 
-(by leave)- I think we would all agree that on both sides of this House there is goodwill towards the Aboriginal people. I think we should all agree that the problem of the Aboriginal people is not simple. There is not one problem. There are many problems because many Aboriginal people are differently situated and what is right for one is wrong for another. I think we would all agree also that the problems cannot be solved by money alone. We all support what the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  has said, and we are all glad that an avenue has been found in which more money could be profitably expended. But there is also for some people the unfortunate fact that a flood of money for certain sections of the Aboriginal people does not do good; it does harm. One of the ways in which damage has been done to them is by spending too much money too easily. 
Let me take 2 examples of what has occurred. It was referred to in this House a few moments ago. The honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  was speaking of the Mowanjum community. He is quite right when he says the Mowanjum community in the last year or so has deteriorated beyond belief. This is true but it is not true to say that this is due to any lack of money or security. The Mowanjum community does have in Pantijan its own station. It has failed to develop it. It does have its station at Pantijan. It has had an opportunity there. In common with many other communities- most other communities unhappily in the Northern Territory- it has deteriorated immensely in the last two or three years because of a flood of money leading to a flood of drink. Unless something is done about it, the Aborigines in the Northern Territory and in the north of Australia will have no future at all. The honourable member for Hughes asked why the Government does not help them with a preferential market for their beef, for example. Let me remind him of what happened when he and his colleagues were Ministers. Haasts Bluff had an abattoir and a very great amount of beef was available. It is good country and there is plenty of cattle on it. The Aborigines wanted to slaughter the cattle to feed their own people at Yuendumu, Haasts Bluff and Papunya but were not allowed to do so because of some administrative bungle in the Northern Territory. When I went to Yuendumu this was in the time of the honourable member's Government- we were given very second rate mutton chops which had been flown in over 1000 miles from the McArthur River, yet there was beef walking around the adjoining paddocks. That is the kind of thing that can happen when there is too much money and not enough thought. 
I welcome this additional money, as we all welcome it, if it can be properly spent. At the same time, surely all of us on both sides of this House who have a good will towards the Aboriginal people and do not want to use them for political purposes must realise that money ill spent does not help Aboriginal people; it harms them. I ask honourable members to recognise that now, for heaven's sake, because if it is not recognised they will do a disservice to the Aboriginal people. That is one of the reasons that the Aborigines in the Northern Territory and in the north of Australia are now going down hill at a rate which is without precedent. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
How much of the amount of $2 15.6m mentioned in line 1 8, page 48, of 1 976-77 Budget Paper No. 7 was paid to each of the States. 
What are the full circumstances which led up to the payment of this amount in 1 975-76 in place of 1 976-77. 
) Did any of the States request this prior payment; if so, on what grounds. 
-by leaveThe House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs would not have brought forward an interim report had it not believed that it was absolutely urgent to overcome this alcohol problem of Aborigines. The object of bringing forward this interim report is to get positive action as soon as possible. In the Northern Territory and elsewhere disappointment has been expressed that in the past numerous reports on this matter have been made and no action has followed. I hope that this report will not fall into that category. It is an emergency report. I do not think it is necessary for me to underscore the remarks that have been made from both sides of the House about the urgency of the situation. The deterioration in the traditional Aboriginal communities of the Northern Territory over the last two or three years has been unbelievable, and it is continuing. Under the present situation there is no prospect that things will get better of themselves. Indeed, the contrary is the position; there is the prospect that if things are left as they are the situation will get worse. 
This is a first-aid recommendation; it is no more and no less than that. If a person is injured in an accident one does not necessarily inquire what were the circumstances of the accident or how it could have been prevented. That comes later. What we have to do immediately is to give first-aid help, to do things which may save life. It is like this for the Aboriginal people, the traditional people of the Northern Territory; firstaid help is necessary if their lives are to be saved. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
What was the total expenditure of the Australian Broadcasting Commission for the year 1975-76. 
What portion of this expenditure was used for (a) the purchase of overseas program material and (b) administration. 
-I give notice that at the next sitting I shall move: 
That this House is of the opinion that, when the Senate fails to pass the Budget, there should be a double dissolution and an immediate election for both Houses; and that financial provisions should be made to enable the Government to be carried on pending such election. 
That this House recognises that it was only a fortunate historical accident that allowed this proper course to be followed last November, in that at that time a double dissolution was constitutionally possible by reason of the Senate's having twice failed to pass certain other Bills which were not part of the Budget, and in that at that time the Senate had not formally rejected the Budget. 
Believing therefore that such a fortunate historical accident may not always occur, this house considers that the people should be asked at a constitutional referendum to approve the principle that, when the Senate refuses to pass the Budget, there should forthwith be a dissolution of both Houses and an immediate election, and that, in the meantime, provision should be made for finance to carry on the administration of the Commonwealth. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
1 ) What are the present subscription rates for posted copies of  Hansard  for (a) the House of Representatives, (b) the Senate and (c) both Houses. 
On what dates were changes in the subscription rates made during the past 10 years and what are the details of the changes. 
In respect of  Hansard  for (a) the House of Representatives, (b) the Senate and (c) both Houses what (i) is the present paid circulation and (ii) was the paid circulation immediately preceding each of the changes referred to in pan (2). 
Away from the dreadful reality of war there always is some sense of unreality about a debate on defence. This is inevitable and I think it is exacerbated by 2 factors. Firstly, we always tend to think in terms of the last war rather than the next; secondly, in a way the defence staff always seem to think that the enemy is bound by its appreciation of the situation and will not do anything unexpected or unforeseen. These things are inevitable. 
Tonight, in the very brief time available to me, I do not intend to talk about any general principles but to concentrate on two specific matters. The first is that the gas supply for Melbourne comes exclusively from very vulnerable installations off-shore which are very open to enemy attack and which could not be repaired quickly. If anything happened to that gas supply in war- it could happen in even a quite small and unsophisticated war- the factories in Melbourne which depend to any extent upon gas would be out of commission. To some extent this situation can be remedied by doing the sensible thing, that is, to tie the Melbourne gas system in with the onshore gas system. We are going to build a branch gas line from Yass to Wagga and from there to Albury is only a matter of 100 miles or so where there will be a link with the Melbourne supply. It is true that pipe will be too small to carry the main needs of Melbourne but in an emergency it could carry the factory needs. Those factories which are dependent on gas and cannot be switched over could get supplies in this way. It would be possible at some later date to augment that pipe with a larger diameter pipe. 
Therefore I say it is pure common sense, as a defence measure, to see that at least we have that security. We should not have our Melbourne defence factories which depend on gas entirely vulnerable to unsophisticated off-shore operations. I put to the Government that this is a fairly small matter but it is one thing which should be undertaken now otherwise the whole of our industrial strength in Melbourne might be tied up by enemy action. 
The other matter I want to raise is a much more difficult one and of much greater importance. In any sophisticated war, a war against a sophisticated enemy, we will not be able to keep our sea lanes open, no matter what we do. Let us forget the possibility of being able to do it against a sophisticated enemy. I do not say for one moment that in an unsophisticated war we could not keep the sea lanes open but in any big conflict, whether we were directly involved or not, our sea lanes would be closed. The reason for that is very simple: It is the vulnerability of a ship to attack, whether it be a naval ship or a merchant ship. At sea the attack has overwhelmed the defence, so big vessels which are worth a missile will not live. 
What has happened? Let me briefly enumerate the kind of things I have in mind. Firstly, the satellite makes it impossible for ships to be hidden. The convoy which sails on a secret route is gone if a satellite is up. Perhaps all the satellites could be shot out of the sky. Perhaps! Perhaps we could do something about over-the-horizon radar and perhaps we could do something about the patrolling planes which have much longer ranges. But, in general, ships no longer will be able to hide on the high seas. 
Secondly, there is the speed of submarines. The nuclear submarine is far faster than the surface ship and so it can pursue and intercept. Therefore the surface ship is very vulnerable. Then there is the range of attacking aircraft. There is the range of missiles. Guided missiles, ballistic missiles, have long ranges. We now have smart bombs and smart missiles which are target seekers. At sea there is a virtually plane surfacewater, and sticking up from it is a high thing made of metal- a ship- which is emitting noise and heat. It is an ideal target for a searching missile. In this case we do not need to have the sophisticated missiles that might be needed against other targets, and by comparison with a missile a ship is slow. The target seekers, whether they be launched from a submarine, from another ship or from an aeroplane a couple of hundred miles away, will find their target if the ship is worth a missile. 
Next we have to consider the possible use of nuclear weapons at sea. Even if nuclear weapons were not used on land their use at sea is entirely conceivable. We have been told, quite rightly, that big missiles would not be used on land because after they get to 20 megatons or so they simply blow out through the ceiling. This is not true at sea because a very big missile under the surface of the water does not blow out. Therefore we can say now that it is quite possible to have a missile which will kill any ship within a radius of 20 to 30 miles and that means that the convoy system is no longer practicable. 
All these things are compounded by the vulnerability of our ports. They add up to one conclusion, namely, that against a sophisticated enemy- again I emphasise the words 'sophisticated enemy'- our sea lanes will not be kept open. This must mean that we should be thinking in quite different terms of our local defence supplies. We should be thinking in terms of stocking up with the supplies we must import, particularly oil. We should be thinking in terms of our local manufacturers having to perform tasks they have not previously envisaged. If we are serious about defence we must take this kind of thing seriously. 
I have spoken of a war against a sophisticated enemy. It may be that our defence Services are needed for quite a different kind of war. In this respect may I say something about the Navy. 
Shortness of time compels me to confine my remarks. I think that perhaps the Navy has been too ready to scrap ships which it calls obsolete. These ships may have little combat value in a sophisticated engagement but as supply ships used in some kind of landing operation or as demonstration ships- the Russians and the Americans have realised the value of demonstration ships- they may be invaluable. Perhaps we have been too ready to scrap ships, saying that because they cannot be used in sophisticated warfare they are not worth having. I put these points to the Government in the hope that it will initiate action. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
In respect of each of the heads comprising the estimated total outlay of $24,320.9 million for 1976-77 appearing on page 28 of the Statements attached to the Budget Speech in Budget Paper No. 1, what amount is estimated to come from (a) Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1976-77, (b) Appropriation Bill (No. 2) 1976-77, (c) Special Appropriations, (d) the Loan Fund and (e) other sources. 

 -Mr Speaker, I give notice that at the next sitting I shall present a Bill for an Act to provide for the granting of Supply and the dissolution of both Houses of Parliament in case of certain deadlocks between them. 
Copies of the Bill are now available for the information of honourable members. 
Next Saturday throughout Australia there will be a commemoration of the events which occurred in Hungary some 20 years ago. It is a commemoration of an infamy, for on that day 20 years ago the Hungarian people reached out for their freedom and found themselves crushed by brutal and ruthless Soviet power. The tanks that came through Budapest were successful, unhappily, in crushing the desire for freedom from the Hungarian people. It is an infamy unredeemed to this day because still today the Hungarian people are in the grip of the Soviet. They have not their freedom. They are made to conform to a social system which they hate and despise. Freedom remains in their hearts although with their bodies they have no freedom. 
We can pretend to the contrary. We can pretend that all is well. We can even find a  President  of the United States saying that he will not tolerate this kind of slavery. Let us forget this pretence. The slavery is still there. It is a shame on the Soviet, but it is not a shame on the Soviet alone. We, twenty years ago, abandoned Hungary to her fate. We did not intervene. The West stood back and allowed these things to happen while the world looked on appalled. But action was paralysed and freedom was snuffed out. What happened then, of course, had its effect on the communist parties throughout the world. There were many people who up to that time had believed that there was some essential benevolence in the Russian system. They were misguided of course, but some of them believed sincerely and were able to shrug off what had happened to the Baltic States, to Poland, to Czechoslovakia and to all the other countries behind the Iron Curtain. But when in 1 956 the issue was made brutally clear in Hungary because a people had the courage physically to oppose and found themselves abandoned, many people who up until that time had been members of the Communist Party in good faith found it impossible to continue. I suppose that is good, but do not let us think that this good thing- the abandonment of the Communist Party by some of its members- weighs more than a fraction in the scale of the loss because it is now seen clearly that there was going to be no real resistance to the Communist enslavement machine. Because we failed them, world history was deflected on to a worse course from then on. The Hungarian people, of course, have the major part in this commemoration. We commemorate their valour. We look with some shame at our abandonment of them. But let us remember that what has happened in Hungary is of consequence to the whole world, even today. I suggest that there is some kind - 
-I move, under the provisions of standing order 1 30: 
That the petition presented today by me relating to the treatment of Jews in the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics be printed. 
In accordance with the requirements of standing order 131I now indicate the action I propose to take and inform the House thereof. I propose to submit the petition for examination by the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence with a request that it explore ways and means of obtaining from the Ambassador of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics some advice as to the policy of his Government on the matters raised in the petition and also in regard to the reality of freedom of religious worship and instruction for the Jewish and other religions in the U.S.S.R. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
It is quite sinister that the newspaper and media industry has been disrupted throughout Australia by a number of rolling strikes. I propose to bring to the notice of the House an incident which has occurred in relation to the  Sydney Morning Herald.  That newspaper has been harassed by rolling strikes for some time. A combined unions committee has been set up with the 
Printing and Kindred Industries Union, the Transport Workers Union of Australia, the Australasian Society of Engineers, the Union of Painters and Plumbers, the Amalgamated Metalworkers Union, the Federated Ironworkers Association of Australia and the Building Workers Industrial Union of Australia to deal with the strike. The clerks and the journalists have elected not to participate in the combined unions committee. Many of the matters in question have arisen largely through redundancy in the industry and new techniques. John Fairfax and Sons Ltd which prints the  Sydney Morning Herald  also publish the  Australian Financial Review,  the  Sydney Sun  and other newspapers. The company has taken a most responsible attitude towards this matter. It has endeavoured to look after the interests of its employees. In fact, it went as far as printing a booklet setting out the problems and the company's approach to them. It is regrettable that the unions refused to allow this booklet to be circulated to their members. 
Recently the strikers made 4 demands- firstly, a 35-hour week; secondly, an increase of $20 a week in pay; thirdly, Medibank payments and, fourthly, some guarantees in regard to redundancy. The company has always held itself open to negotiation on the fourth point. The company believes that the previous 3 points are contrary to the principles of wage indexation and it did not grant them. On 2 1 October the matter went before the State Industrial Commission which was asked for a no strike order. The matter was heard by  Mr Justice  Cahill the son of the late Labor Premier of New South Wales. He was sitting as a judge. He ordered a no strike provision. On the night of 2 1 October a meeting of employees of John Fairfax Ltd decided to disregard the instruction, to disobey it, and in fact to strike against the principle of a no strike order ever having been asked for. They went on strike, but the newspapers were printed. With staff labour, the company was able to keep most, not all of its publications before the public. There was disorder, there was some violence, but the publication went on. 
Then on 27 October the combined unions' committee made a request for outside assistance. They asked other unions to try to black ban the  Sydney Morning Herald  and other newspapers and to cut off supplies to them. For example, they addressed their appeals to the Waterside Workers' Federation, which held up about $1m worth of newsprint which was on the wharves. No help was given because the Maritime Services Board had intimated to John Fairfax Ltd that it proposed to charge the company $ 1,000 a day demurrage for the newsprint which the unions refused to load. The Union Steam Ship Co. has been intimidated and will give no help. The telephone technicians have intimated that they will not repair telephones or telex instruments which go out of service. Already the telephonists have withdrawn their labour. One  Australian Financial Review  teleprinter to Melbourne is out of order; the line between Sydney and Brisbane is out of order and cannot be repaired. Employees of the Water Board have intimated that they will not repair any water supply services and if anything goes wrong the building will be without water. 
Most of all, I look to what the postal union, the Australian Postal and Telecommunications Union, has done. I come back to the request made on 27 October that it should engage in a conspiracy to prevent the  Sydney Morning Herald  being published. The State branch of the union sent out a circular to all its postal employees at the request of the Printing and Kindred Industries Union. The . matter was referred to the Full Bench and on 2 November, a couple of days ago, the Full Bench again directed the unions to hold a mass meeting on 4 November- I understand it has been postponed for a day- to return to work and to continue negotiations on redundancy. The Commission said that it would offer its services, if required, to help in those negotiations. In regard to the other 3 points, the Commission said that they had to stand over until the national wage case was decided. Meanwhile, a statement of claim was lodged in the Supreme Court alleging conspiracy by the APTU with the PKIU to injure John Fairfax Ltd by unlawful means. That application was heard yesterday, and the Supreme Court gave its decision. Evidence was given to the court that something like 23 000 letters were being held in Sydney at the City Central Exchange in the GPO addressed to John Fairfax which could not be delivered because the unionists would not allow them to be delivered. That is absolutely and completely shameful. The letters were varied. There were letters to the editor, letters containing cheques and revenue, and 3000-odd letters from ABBA fans, children who had been writing in on some kind of children's competition. Here we have 23 000 letters, all sorted out and ready to go, which have been held up. They could not be moved; they were not allowed to be moved. The judge said in his findings that the union or persons were in violation of section 94 of the postal services Act. I read to the House section 94 of an Act which was passed by the late Labor Government. 
'Deceased ' is right. The section reads: 
A person shall not wilfully obstruct or hinder the conveyance or delivery by or on behalf of the Commission of any mail or postal article. 
Penalty: Imprisonment for one year. 
That section was passed into law by the late Labor Government and that is the section in respect of which the judge found that there was evidence of contravention. He ordered that the union, its servants and agents, be restrained until further order of the court from doing any act which would directly or indirectly obstruct or hinder the delivery of mail to John Fairfax Ltd or its papers. 
Only a few moments ago I checked the situation, and the ban is still on. The court is being defied. The mail, which is technically the property of the Commonwealth until it is passed over, is not being delivered. We have a strong-arm operation by a gang of unionists who are endeavouring to hold the whole community to ransom. I ask the House to consider the implications of this kind of thing because it is something which can be done not only against John Fairfax, not only against any other firm, but it can be done against any person. We all get letters; we all use telephones; we all want to have the services of water supply and things like that. It is wrong that somebody can put on an interdict against an order of a court, because everything that has happened is against a direct order of a court, a direct order made by  Mr Justice  Cahill, who can scarcely be accused of being in any way biased in this matter. This has been done, and it can be done to anybody or to any firm or to any group of people. We are coming to a totalitarian dictatorship when this kind of thing is possible. Surely the sense of outrage in the community should be sufficient to stop this action from being continued, much less repeated. The mail service has always been considered as something sacrosanct. The mail must go through. Yet here we have a position where mail is sorted in bags, ready to be delivered, and the bags are not being moved. 
What do the people in the trade unions think of this? I do not believe that the average trade unionist will support this kind of action, particularly when he realises that he himself can always be the victim of trade union leaders, and many of the trade union leaders today are the prime enemies of trade unionists. The trade unionists knows that they hold over him the power of intimidation, the power of victimisation. Surely we can appeal to the great body of workers to get rid of this kind of intimidation, this thuggery. It is easy enough to say that this action is against only John Fairfax. But it can go against John Smith just as easily. John Smith in the unions very often knows that if he will not obey his union boss when he is directed to do something illegal which he himself does not want to do that union boss has the power to victimise him, and to victimise him abominably. The position cannot continue where a clique can offer this kind of threat, and offer it successfully. The position cannot continue where the whole machinery of government and our economy and the fabric of our social life can be brought to a stop as a result of unions defying the court and demanding that union members continue to do something illegal. Such a situation is a rehearsal for revolution. That is what it is meant to be. I hope that this Parliament will show its abhorrence of what is being done. 

 - Mr Speaker, I am coming to that and you will find that I am in order. I ask: It was stated that the rise in the cost of living for the September quarter - 
With all due respect,  Sir, I  am in order. I would like to finish my question. 
I direct a question to the Treasurer. I draw his attention to calculations which have been made recently to the effect that had it not been for the cuts in fares in New South Wales, the cost of living in Australia in the last September quarter would have risen by 2.5 per cent in place of the 2.2 per cent which actually occurred. Does this suggest that there may be some more effective ways of fighting inflation than the negative policy of restriction? For instance, what about cutting taxes and charges in order to reduce price increases? Would he discuss this matter with his Treasury officials, who admittedly are somewhat slow on the uptake, to see whether some more effective policy can be devised to meet any inflationary tendencies in the economy? 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I shall not detain the House for more than 5 minutes - 
Motion (by  Mr Donald  Cameron) agreed to: 
That the question be now put 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 

 -Mr Deputy Chairman - 
Motion (by  Mr Donald  Cameron) agreed to: 
That the question be now put 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, very briefly - 
Motion (by  Mr Donald  Cameron) agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
-There are 3 Bills before the House. I shall deal with only one, namely, the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Bill. It is a difficult Bill because it covers a difficult situation. I hope the matter will be approached in a bipartisan spirit. At least, I shall try to do so. Our first objective, surely, is to do what is best for the Aborigines and to look to their real advantage. I do not think their real advantage would be compatible with the maintenance of high tension between them and the Europeans in the Northern Territory. Anything which is in a Bill and which creates and maintains that tension will not be to the ultimate advantage of the Aboriginal people. Nor would it be to their advantage to take a line which was believed to impede entirely the prosperity of the Northern Territory. These circumstances set limits to what we might usefully and properly do for the Aboriginal people. We might ask: What is this land rights Bill? It gives traditional land to traditional people. That is its title. It states: 
Providing for the granting of Traditional Aboriginal Land in the Northern Territory for the benefit of Aboriginals, and for other purposes. 
That is what the Bill is about. When one looks at it one finds that its main purpose is the allocation of reserves and the giving of title in reserves. That is not its only purpose but that is the main drive and impact of the Bill. In addition to this, it envisages other things. It envisages a continuance of the policy whereby we have purchased pastoral properties in the Northern Territory and elsewhere for the benefit of Aboriginal people, and particularly for the benefit of Aboriginal people who have some traditional link with those properties. One thinks, for example, of Utopia, Wave Hill or any one of those areas which have been purchased. I hope that more of them will be purchased. This policy was started under the previous Liberal-National Country Party Government when I was the Minister. It has been continued under the Australian Labor Party Government and I believe it will be continued now. In addition, the Bill envisages acquisition of proper dwelling areas- sit down places is what the Aborigines call them- for other Aborigines in the Northern Territory. 
Although the Bill is concerned mainly with reserves, that is not its only concern. But this Bill is for the traditional Aborigines. I think we have to remember that they are different from the Aborigines most people know. Perhaps 90 per cent or 95 per cent of the Australian people come into contact with Aborigines in Redfern or Moree or perhaps as tourists in Alice Springs. But they do not see the real, traditional Aboriginal. It is mainly towards his benefit that this Bui is directed. I am not saying for one moment that Aborigines, other than the traditional Aborigines, do not have needs and do not need, require and deserve benefits and help. I am talking about what this Bill does. It is about traditional Aborigines and about maintaining their rights over traditional land. I ask: What is best for these Aborigines? What is needed for them is change, but gradual change. The fault of which we have been guilty in the past is that we have put upon these traditional people pressures of change which were too vast and too urgent for them to assimilate. They have broken in the process. This is what we must avoid. Sure, we must bring change; we must help these people into a new way of life. But let the change be only as fast as they can assimilate without breaking. 
If we go to the Northern Territory today we will see terrible evidences of this break where the traditional Aboriginal is not getting something better but something much worse. For these people there has been a deterioration in their real way of life even when their material standards have risen. I am not for one moment saying that we should not help them to raise their material standards. We should help them to raise thenstandards as fast as they are capable of assimilating change. But we do them no kindness when perhaps to salve our own guilty consciences in the matter we try to impose upon them burdens which they are not capable of bearing. Now, let me come to the reserves. We should be maintaining for the Aborigines the integrity of their traditional reserves. As honourable members will know, there are two or three big reserves about which we are talking. They are not just little island reserves but real areas which are capable of maintaining the integrity which the Aboriginals desire so that they can have time to assimilate the change. There is Arnhem Land, with its adjacent islands; there is the big central reserve; and there is the Daly River reserve. These are big areas. They are not just little islands in a sea of European development, but something which can be traditionally Aboriginal until the Aborigines are ready to take the change. 
I am worried to some extent that some features of this Bill, and equally of the Labor Bill which was its predecessor, do not sufficiently maintain the integrity of those big reserves. That integrity cannot be maintained if there is an incursion of intense economic activity into the reserves. No big mining venture in a reserve can be conducted without destroying the traditional Aboriginal society and the traditional Aborigines who are associated with it. That is true even though the people who are conducting that intensive mining have the very best will in the world and do everything that is possible. Let us take Groote Eylandt, for example, where the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd has leaned over backwards to do everything it can. I could not criticise one thing that the company has done, and yet its impact upon the community has not been at all favourable. Indeed, I hope that things will improve, but on the last occasion I was at Groote Eylandt there was starvation among the Aborigines, for the first time in memory- starvation at a time when there was a flood of unaccustomed money coming in, but gambling and other things had taken away its impact for good. 
If one goes to Yirrkala or Gove or Nhulunbuy, call it what you will, one will find that the only refuge for the traditional Aboriginal is to leave the centre and go down to Caledon Bay or Blue Mud Bay or down to the centre of Arnhem Land and live away. He is not living entirely in traditional fashion. He has some kind of elementary schooling, he has his land rover, perhaps, or an outboard motor on his boat. He has some medical services. He probably has access to an aerodrome where emergency supplies or visitors can come in. But he has separated himself from the activity which was destroying him. I believe that this outstation movement which the Aborigines have chosen for themselves in these reserves illustrates the only real hope they have of coming successfully through the transition from thenway of life to our way of life. I am not saying for one moment that they can always remain in their traditional way. I think that is something which they would not desire, and whether they or we desire it, it would not be possible. 
Although there is some protection in the Bill against mining incursion, I am not certain how great that protection will be in practice. It is a very difficult problem. We say that we must give to the Aborigines control over their own property and their own destiny, but if that means permission to barter it away then it will be bartered away. We know the manipulations that go on. Anybody who has been to Arnhem Land knows about them. Aborigines, in good faith perhaps, make bargains whose impact they do not understand, and we in good faith sometimes believe that they understand what they are doing. I remember an Administrator talking to me about how he went across to Yirrkala and told the Aboriginal people there everything about what was going to happen when the bauxite plant moved in. He was completely honest. He told them everything. I do not think he concealed anything, and they gave their consent. But when they saw what happened they were appalled because they had not envisaged it or realised it. Even today there is circulating among honourable members a statement about an Aboriginal on a land councilthere is no need to mention his name; honourable members will know to whom I am referring- who has been signing things of consequence without knowing what he has signed, not because he was deceived but because that is the kind of thing that happens. Under this Bill there is not enough protection for the Aborigines, almost against themselves in a way. There will be manipulation. I would Uke to have seen the Aborigines in the reserves having full mining rights, but I would not Uke to have seen them with the ability to barter those rights away in such a fashion as to bring in intensive industries and destroy their communities. 
The Northern Territory has got to develop. There has to be mining there. For example, it will be almost impossible and a crime against Australia to hold back development on some parts of the Alligator River. But to breach the integrity of Arnhem Land, to allow mineral exploration up from Roper River through Blue Mud Bay and the Parsons Range would destroy the refuge. Even the Labor Government was giving concessions or making arrangements for prospecting in the Ngalia Basin adjacent to and to some extent in the Yuendumu Reserve. Do not let us think of this as being something which comes from one side of the House. I think perhaps both sides of the House might do a little bit of thinking about this problem. Then there is the question of roads. Sooner or later the Arnhem Highway will be constructed from the East Alligator River across over the Liverpool River and into Nhulunbuy. Sooner or later it will go through, but I had rather it be later than sooner because as that highway goes through, and it can go through under this Bill, it will destroy the Aboriginal life in the country through which it passes. Later- in 10 years time. 20 years time, I do not know how long- it will be safe and desirable to build that highway. I fear it should be built now. I fear the pressure that will come from other Aborigines, the people who come up into the Northern Territory from the south. They are better educated than the traditional Aboriginals. Perhaps they do not know as much about their own law but they do know a lot about the white man's law and the white man's way and they tend to control and manipulate Aboriginal organisations with which they are associated. One cannot blame them. After aU, it is an opportunity for them. But I wonder whether perhaps they realise the extent to which they, who are not traditional, are destroying the way of life of the traditional people whom they seek to dominate and control. 
I think that this Bill is defective and I hope that the House will accept an amendment to the definition of 'Aboriginal'. In clause 3 'Aboriginal' is defined as a person who is a member of the Aboriginal race of Australia. That is fine if one is not dealing with traditional land. A man who has one sixty-fourth part of Aboriginal blood would still be a member of the Aboriginal race of Australia and would still qualify under this definition. Some of these people will be able to dominate and control the areas into which they come. It was Professor Rowley, I think, who brought forward the first definition of Aboriginal that was used in the Department of Aboriginal 
Affairs. I amended it a little when I was the Minister responsible for that Department and it has been used in the Department ever since. An Aboriginal, under that definition, is somebody of Aboriginal descent who claims to be an Aboriginal and is accepted as such by the community with which he  is associated.  Even that small protection, which is not sufficient in relation to this traditional situation, has been removed from the Bill. 
The Bill deals with traditional land and the rights of traditional Aboriginals are worth protecting. If we have any decency we will look to these people about whose land we are talking in this Bill. An Aboriginal is perhaps in some ways less ready to trust another Aboriginal - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Will he ensure that, before the debate on the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Bill 1976 proceeds, maps are available to Members showing the areas described in the Schedule to the Bill. 
-I move: 
In the definition 'Aboriginal', after 'Australia' add 'and is registered or entitled to be registered under the provisions of paragraph 24 (a) or who has been nominated by a person so registered as a member of his land-owning clan or group'. 
If honourable members look at the Bill as drafted they will see that Aboriginal means 'a person who is a member of the Aboriginal race of Australia'. That might mean that a person who had one sixty-fourth part Aboriginal blood would qualify under the definition. Could I say something about the definition of Aboriginal? 
-I want to deal very briefly with points raised by the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant),  the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde)  and the Minister. First, the honourable member for Wills, when he said that the item could be circular because non-traditional Aboriginals get on to the register, omitted one very fundamental point. Aboriginals can be persuaded of many things and they will on occasions falsify many things but they will never, to my way of thinking, falsify lines of descent. These are sacred to Aborigines and they consider them in quite a different category from any other category. So the register would be, to all intents and purposes, watertight. 
Second, the honourable member for Moore mentioned that there were other protections in the Bill. Clause 7 of the Bill states that the Land Trust shall be appointed by the Minister from nominations received. However, nominations are confined to people who live within the area of the relevant land council. This also applies in regard to the qualifications for membership of land councils. So the same watertight provisions do not apply in practice. Anybody who really knows how Aborigines think and behave and what they believe to be really sacrosanct will, I think, agree with my contention. The Minister said that my amendment was too restrictive in that it would- I think this was what he impliedconfine the definition of Aborigines to owners. If the Minister reads what I have suggested, he will see that they are people who are registered as owners or have been nominated by a person so registered as a member of his land-owning clan or group. This is something which Aborigines will follow absolutely meticulously, absolutely honestly and without question. It enables anybody who is recognised by the Aborigines, in accordance with their own strict laws which they preserve quite meticulously, in a clan relationship or group relationship, to be registered. As somebody who has had some experience in the field, I can say that he will be registered as such. 
These are objections which have been raised to the proposition which I have put forward. They seem to me to be objections which have no substance in them. So far as I know there have been no substantial and correct arguments introduced in this chamber today against the proposition that I am putting forward. In view of its importance for maintaining for traditional Aborigines the traditional land and traditional rights which this Bill describes in its title, I ask that the amendment be seriously considered, if not here at least in another place. 
Amendment negatived. 
-I draw the attention of the Committee to subclause 2 of this clause. Sub-clause 9 makes it obligatory to reserve all minerals to the Crown in Aboriginal lands. I think this is reasonable in regard to the Aboriginal lands that will be added from time to time. With regard to the reserves, I hope that it would not be made obligatory to make these reservations in favour of the Crown. I do not say that they should never be made on reserves because it may be that, in cases where mineral rights have already been given, for example at Magellan and at Nabarlek, the reservations to the Crown should, of course, remain. I am speaking only of the lands set out in the schedule and not of other lands. It seems to me that it would be reasonable to give to the Aboriginals the normal mineral rights, with the exceptions of those areas in which some kind of mineral tenure is conceded already. 
I know it is said that this should not be done. It is said that this is not done for other people and should not be done for Aboriginals. This is not quite true. Old titles in most of the Australian States did carry mineral rights. Old titles in the Northern Territory, when it was under South Australian administration and some freehold was given, carried mineral rights. I am not suggesting for one moment that there should be a special arrangement in favour of Aboriginals. Rather I am suggesting that, in respect of the reserves and subject to the exceptions I have made, on these reserves the Aboriginals are holding the old title and as such should be treated on the same basis as those who held old titled. I move: 
In sub-clause (2), after 'section' insert ', made following a recommendation under section 11,'. 
Textually, it is a small and neat amendment. It does not affect the main structure of the Bill, but I think it does something quite substantial. I suggest that, in order to put the Aboriginals on the same basis as those who have held old titles in these areas, on the reserves where no mineral right has been given already, it should not be obligatory to make the grant of land subject to a reservation of minerals to the Crown. I have not gone further than that. I have suggested only that this should be permissive rather man mandatory. I commend the amendment to the Minister and to the Committee. 
I have a small amendment which I very earnestly ask the Government to accept. I move: 
At the end of paragraph (b) add 'in so far as such can be done without breach of Aboriginal usage '. 
I think that this is a matter of some practical importance to traditional Aboriginals. Some sites are known and some sites are made known by Aboriginals. Other sites are not known and not made known by their traditional owners. There are sites whose secrecy is part of their sacredness. This does not apply to all sites. In many cases the site referred to is not an artifact, a painting on a wall or anything like that; it is simply a natural feature. The fact that this natural feature is sacred and is a site of significance means that it has to be concealed from everybody except the traditional people who are entitled to that knowledge. This is really fundamental to the nature and structure of Aboriginal society. By making it mandatory for these sites to be disclosed and put in a register we are violating one of the canons of Aboriginal society. 
In many cases the sites can be described but not in every case. It is a real affront to Aboriginals to require them- as this clause does- to put sacred sites upon a register. It might be said that the register itself could be kept secret. Anybody who says this would not be really in touch with the nature of Aboriginal usage. Bad though it might be to disclose a site to a European, in Aboriginal eyes it would be far, far worse to describe and identify a site to another Aboriginal who was not entitled to know about it. It would be much worse to let another Aboriginal know than to let a European know. Until quite recently ceremonial murders have been committed in the centre of Australia just to protect the sacredness of this knowledge. This is something we may laugh at as some people would laugh at masonic secrecy or something of that character. 
It is absolutely fundamental to Aboriginal society that some things should be kept secret especially from other Aboriginals who are not permitted to know about them. This incidentally, is one of the main coherent forces which has kept Aboriginal society together in the past. It is a fact that Aboriginal society has remained together because the knowledge which is the authority has been kept compartmentalised. This is a matter which does not have any practical significance for anybody except Aboriginals. I am not suggesting that, where sites can be disclosed by Aboriginal usage, they should not be disclosed. But because apparently this aspect has not been sufficiently considered, I most earnestly ask the Government to add after the words 'disclosure of the sites for a register' the words insofar as such can be done without breach for Aboriginal usage'. It is for the Aboriginals themselves to say from time to time what their usage and traditional customs are. 
I have 2 small amendments designed to give cut-offdates. I move: 
In sub-clause (1), after 'Commissioner' insert 'before 31 December 1977'. 
In sub-clause (l)(b), after 'time', second appearing, insert 'but before 30 June 1978'. 
It seems to me that in the absence of such a cut-off date, which should not be immediate but should give some time for Aboriginals to lodge claims, there may arise continual bitterness between the Aboriginal and European communities in the Northern Territory. I do not think this would be to the advantage of either community. In this respect I am thinking particularly of the advantage of the Aboriginal community. I think it would help Aboriginals if there were some kind of cut-off date to which they could work, because this would absolve them from continual bitterness and all sorts of finangling which otherwise might go on. 
-My question is directed to the Treasurer. It concerns economic policy, with special reference to the Treasurer's reendorsement of his policies on money supply as set out at page 37 of his Budget Speech. Has the Treasurer given consideration to the possibility that in formulating his policy he may have paid too much attention to the Procrustes principle? Does he recall that Procrustes was an amiable Greek who had a somewhat arbitrary iron bed. When travellers were tall like, for example, the Prime Minister- he would cut off their feet to make them fit the bed. If they were somewhat on the short side- like, for example, the honourable member for Shortland- he would stretch their necks until they fitted the bed exactly. Would the Treasurer be inclined to modify his present policy which endeavours to fit the Australian economy to an arbitrary money supply and instead see whether he might not do better to try to fit the money supply to the Australian economy? 
-I ask leave to make a personal explanation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drummond)Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
Yes. My attention was drawn a few moments ago to an article which appeared this morning in the Melbourne  Sun.  I will read the offending passage. It refers to a meeting ofthe Government Parties and States: 
Only the rebel N.S.W. Liberal M.P.,  Mr Wentworth,  openly opposed the devaluation decision at the joint party meeting. 
This is completely untrue. I have not opposed the devaluation decision, either there or elsewhere. In point of fact I not only supported it but also for some months I have been suggesting it. Apparently the confusion arises because I did oppose certain of the decisions which were taken following the devaluation decision. I still am opposed to some of those decisions. I am glad to say that some of them already have been ameliorated and for that, at least, I can take, I hope, some credit. 
-I give notice that at the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That this House instructs the Government that, under the present circumstances, there should be no tinkering with the tariff. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Prior to the debate upon the Aboriginal Land (Northern Territory) Bill 1976, will he supply for the information of Members, (a) maps showing the lands described in the Schedule to the Bill, and the position of these lands in the Northern Territory, (b) maps showing all mining interests, including applications, leases, licences and exploration or other permits, which exist in the lands in the Schedule or which could have any force by revival or otherwise if the Bill becomes law in its present form and (c) brief descriptions of all mining interests included in paragraph (b). 
I direct my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to the wholesale murder of men, women and children which has been perpetrated and which is still being perpetrated by the Cambodian communist regime for the purpose of terrorising the Cambodian people. I ask: What information is available to the Government about details of these shocking occurrences in Cambodia? Can the Minister confirm that, for the purpose of increasing the impact of their terror campaign, the Cambodian communists forbid exit from Cambodia and, as a matter of routine, execute any Cambodian refugees whom they can apprehend? Has the Government any details of the recent incident when 26 Cambodian refugees, including children, were returned across the border by the Thai authorities and are said to have been forthwith beheaded by the Khmer Rouge, that is, the Cambodian communists? Finally, will the Minister see that details of such communist atrocities which customarily occur in Cambodia and elsewhere receive adequate publicity in Australia so that such publicity may nave some deterrent effect upon those who perpetrate these atrocities and so that Australian communists who are associated with this foul movement may receive the detestation and execration which is their proper due? 
-I rise on a question of privilege. The House will recall that, this morning, a certain petition was presented to it asking that reports of some of its debates be made available in certain court proceedings. I now move: 
That the House, having considered the petition presented this day, 9 December, by Danny Sankey regarding the making available in court proceedings of reports of its debates, r" ves permission for the  Hansard report  of its proceedings on July 197S to be adduced in evidence as desired by the petitioner and for the necessary arrangements to be made for its verification in court. 
I so move knowing that quite important matters are in question. There is precedent for this action both in the House of Commons and in this House. So far as the House of Commons is concerned, I refer this House to proceedings on 9 December 1975 where the House of Commons, on petition, ordered that leave be given to the proper officers of the House to attend the trial of a said action and to produce said minutes of evidence and reports of debates and that leave be given for reference to be made to the said minutes and reports. In this House a similar motion was passed, I think, in regard to a matter raised by  Mr Daly,  who was then the honourable member for Grayndler. This was on 7 May 1 963. The precedents are not numerous but there are some other precedents for this action. I think the position is established that it is right to give this permission provided that the circumstances warrant it. It is a matter, I believe, for the proper discretion ofthe House. There is a reason - 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What are the detailed calculations which lead up to the figure of $9.87m mentioned in line 3, page 1 17, of 1976-77 Budget Paper No. 1. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What are the detailed calculations leading up to the estimate of $700m mentioned in line 6, page 30, of 1976-77 Budget Paper No. 1. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What amount has been spent on unemployment benefits in each month of 1 976-77. 
-! claim to have been misrepresented. May I make a personal explanation? 
I think that attention ought to be paid to the remarks made earlier this evening by the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Yates)  and the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron).  The honourable member for Holt spoke of the unsatisfactory nature of question time in this House. I think that he spoke with reason and justice. What I would like to say in addition to what he said, which I support, is that  Mr Speaker  or  Mr Deputy Speaker  might pay more attention to standing order 151, which reads: 
Questions may be asked without notice. At the discretion of the  Speaker  supplementary questions may be asked to elucidate an answer. 
As you would well know,  Sir, in  the House of Commons the  Speaker  does exercise a certain amount of discretion in that when he thinks that an answer is not sufficient to give the questioner the information that has been sought he will allow a supplementary question to be asked. The supplementary question may come from the same side of the House or it may come from the other side of the House, but a supplementary question is taken out of order so that the information that is sought may be properly given. I think that the  Speaker  of this House, in conformity with standing order 151, which is never employed in this House, might take a leaf out of the book of the  Speaker  of the House of Commons in this regard. I support entirely what the honourable member for Holt said on this matter. 
The honourable member for Hindmarsh drew attention- I think very rightly- to the fact that the members of this House should not be beholden to any Minister in regard to the affairs, routine and running of this House. They as a House are superior to any Minister and  Mr Speaker,  on their behalf, carries in this House an authority that no Minister, even the Prime Minister, should carry. I speak of this solely in regard to the routine and running of this House. I believe that a lot of the trouble has come about through a bad constitutional practice whereby the adviser to the Governor-General in terms of section 56 of the Constitution when Estimates are being put forward in regard to the Parliament is a Minister. I think that this is entirely wrong. The proper advisers to the GovernorGeneral in respect of the Estimates of this Parliament are  Mr Speaker  and  Mr President.  A Minister should not be allowed to intervene. What has been happening over past years in this regard is entirely unconstitutional and entirely improper. It is for that reason,  Sir, that  I have placed on the notice paper a motion which I will read and which I hope will be debated in this House before long. The motion reads: 
That, in the opinion of this House, the proper adviser of the Governor-General in relation to his discharge of his duties under section 56 of the Constitution, insofar as they relate to appropriation of revenue or moneys for the services of this House, is not a Minister, but  Mr Speaker. 
I have further suggested that  Mr Speaker  should wait upon the Governor-General to acquaint him with the terms of that motion. It is not our business, of course, to say what should happen in the Senate; but in my view- it is something that is a matter for a senator, not for me- it would seem that  Mr President  and not a Minister is the proper adviser to the Governor-General in relation to section 56 of the Constitution and the recommendation of expenditure for the purposes of the Senate. 
I think everybody will approve of the adoption of this Bill, which ratifies the Convention that is set out in the Schedule. Nothing that I say tonight in any way implies any reluctance to do that or, indeed, any criticism of the Convention. But what I want to do is to draw the attention of the House and of the nation to the inherent weakness of the Convention. If one is climbing in the mountains it  may  be dangerous not to have a rope, but there is one thing that is more dangerous than not having a rope and that is to have a rotten rope and to rely on it. This Convention most unhappily gives us very little protection. It deals with toxic and biological weapons. Let me speak first of the chemical weapons- the toxins. We have heard a lot of talk about how a kilogram of a botulin poison or some such chemical could kill the whole population. It could, if distributed; but how difficult it is to distribute. 
What are really important are the biological weapons- the biological instruments of death. I suppose these fall into 2 categories. Firstly there is the normal disease organism. It is possible, of course, to spread normal plagues and normal diseases, whether they be of humans- the worst diseases- or of plants and animals which might lead to starvation. But that is not now the main danger. The main danger is with the organism which has been subjected to artificial mutation. We know that this can be done in many ways and that experimentally it has been done already in 3 ways. Firstly, it has been done by chemical means which can affect the genetic material. Secondly, it has been done by radiation, particularly by a dosage of high energy rays. Thirdly- this is much more dangerous still- it has been done by internal grafting. This is something which is already recognised amongst scientists as being so dangerous that they have suspended experiments in regard to it until they know more about it because they are frightened of the consequences. It is at least conceivable that, by this bacteriological grafting, disease organisms may be able to be produced to which the human response is inadequate and to which the human body has no effective defences. This is regarded as a very real possibility by those scientists who are best equipped to deal with the matter. 
The trouble with the bacteriological field is that experiments and production can be done in a small plant secretly. Scientists of considerable pre-eminence are needed, sure, but the stereotype of the mad scientist has been in science fiction for a long time. It is by no means certain that it is always fiction. This kind of weapon, this kind of instrument, can be fashioned by a very skilled man in secret with apparatus which perhaps would require a space no bigger than this chamber. It requires something. It cannot be done by an amateur. It cannot be done without the normal medical apparatus; but it can be done. 
Let us contrast this, for example, with the dangers of nuclear weapons about which so much pother has been raised. At least in the manufacture of nuclear weapons there is the protection that only a skilled team with access to very massive plant can be successful. With biological weapons the answer is quite different. Their production can be carried out on a very small scale. Whereas the nuclear weapon, terrible though it is, is confined in its effects, the mutated organism can be a guided missile because it can seek itself its target in the human body and by infection pass from one to another. 
We are on the edge of something which can be quite terrible, and we had better realise it. This kind of thing is important perhaps in 3 contexts. We can think of it as being important in major war if a country were to use it. This convention bars a country from the use of this weapon, but how can we enforce a convention against a country with which we are at war? This can be done only by war itself. Terrible though it is-it is terriblethe fact that the weapons have not been manufactured in advance or stockpiled may not be sufficient protection if only the knowledge of how to make them has been worked out in advance. 
That is the first possible use and danger. The second is organised terrorism. We see organised terrorism at work in the world in many places. This is a weapon which the terrorist can use and employ effectively. The third possible use is, of course, in individual blackmail. Until recently we thought very little of individual blackmail, but in the last decade there have been kidnappings and ransoms. There was a little incident in Victoria only a couple of days ago. Let us consider the possibilities of blackmail when this kind of weapon is available- a weapon which can be made in secret in a small plant by a skilled person. 
This convention is as good as you can get. I am not trying to criticise or denigrate it; all I am saying is that we must realise the residual dangers which will still be there when this convention is ratified on a world wide scale. 
Lastly let me say this: We signed this convention and we will not violate it. Having signed it we will abide by it. Furthermore for the open countries the convention is at least to a great extent self-policing. These countries cannot go in ibr this sort of thing secretly without the possibility of the knowledge of what is being done being published. But that is not true for the closed countries, the countries behind the Iron Curtain. In those countries there is not the helpful network of dissidents which would enable what is being done in those countries to be known outside their borders. This is not because their people are loyal and ours are disloyal. On the contrary; it is because their people are under policing and surveillance and ours are not. It is because they can close off large areas and keep secret from the world what is happening behind the fences. Because we are an open and free society we cannot do that kind of thing. We are vulnerable, as we should be, in this regard. They are not so vulnerable. 
I know that what I am saying is not music to some ears, but it is nevertheless true. Honourable members should face the fact that when we are dealing with the communist countries we are dealing with liars; we are dealing with ruling cliques. I say nothing about the Russian people or the Chinese people who are just individuals like we are and well-intentioned like we are. I speak of the ruling parties, and here we are dealing with liars who believe no faith should be kept with non-communists and that any manoeuvre, however vile, is justifiable if it will advance their cause. This is a stark fact. It is not nice to say this, but it had better be realised because this is the world in which we are living and in which we shall all certainly die, but in which I hope we will not die before our time. 
The position is this: We are signing a convention which binds us effectively but it does not bind the communist powers effectively. They have a shocking record of pact violation, of treachery and of lying and there is no reason to think that they will go back on that record in dealing with us or with any other power when it comes to this convention if only they think it pays them in advancing their cause. I do not criticise the Convention. I certainly do not criticise our signing the Convention. Let us not think that the Convention gives us any more security than it does. 
I think that this debate provides an opportunity to say something about the principles of foreign trade. I was much attracted by the very sensible views that were put forward by the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Peter Johnson).  What is needed is rational protection of local industry whether it be primary or secondary. All great economies accept this principle and their acceptance of it has to some degree been the foundation of their economic greatness. The United States does this. It preserves the home base of its industries. The economic community in Europe does it. Japan does it pre-eminently. On that secure base those countries are able to erect a very considerable industrial machine. 
Free trade is the principle of centralisationthe centralised economy for the whole world. We give lip service at any rate to the principle of decentralisation here when we say that all power should not be in Canberra and that we should decentralise power to the various States. But at the same time too many unthinking people, shallow thinkers, espouse the principles of free trade which are the principles of economic centralisation. They want to bring all control into the one single economic system and allow of course the size of that system to crush the whole of the industry. An economy is healthier if it produces a high proportion of the products it consumes; what one would call autarky- self-sufficiency. Unless a country has that its economy is subject to the whims of foreign competition and foreign economic conditions which a country itself cannot control. Because of this a country can involve itself in tides of unemployment, for which there is no local remedy, if it espouses the pernicious principles of free trade. 
Of course one does not want to carry this principle too far. One can envisage that the degree of self-sufficiency depends on the size of the economy, and a small economy must have a low degree of it Of course there are special natural advantages in every country, and naturally a country would want to exploit those advantages to the extent that the world market can absorb the product. 
Come home to Australia, to our existing structure of population.' It is quite impossible for us, for any foreseeble time, to find employment for our people in export industries because the export industries are not high employers of labour. In fact, if they became labour intensive they would very often become inefficient. Because the world market simply will not absorb increasing quantities of beef or wheat or even iron ore, there will be natural limitations and there will not be the external market. With our high standards of living we simply cannot compete and there will be unemployment in Australia if there is free trade. 
I wish to make 2 brief comments before I sit down. Firstly, I deprecate this idea of Australian companies going off-shore if it means that they tend to ask for tariff concessions for their imports. If a company in Australia goes off-shore it should not receive any tariff concessions whatsoever for its imports into Australia because it is importing unemployment and exporting employment. Secondly, I would hope some time to develop the thesis that the Industries Assistance Commission should be looking not at things in the way in which it is now looking, but rather should be seeking constructive ways in which to develop Australian industry and obtain economies of scale without involving high prices, but at the same time maintaining the level of employment which should be given to Australian workmen to provide Australian goods for consumption on the home market. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, refers to Press reports to the effect that the Minister has experienced some delays in his efforts to increase the staff of the Commonwealth Employment Service in order to deal with the increased work load. I ask: Has the CES been subject to any staff cuts during 1976? Has the Minister made any requests for the augmentation of the CES staff? Did the Minister some few months ago ask for additional CES staff of a little over 100 people? When did he make that request? Has such request been granted and, if so, when? What was the reason for any delay between the making of that request and its implementation? Would the Minister be willing to lay on the table the departmental files in regard to this incident? 
I think that the House might well take note of the remarks made by the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  and particularly the remarks made by the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder).  This is a matter where Aboriginal views and wishes will not be expressed definitely or quickly. It is an on-going matter. I think that the Parliament should see that this Committee does not just go out of existence. The Parliament should ensure that its work is maintained because the Committee cannot do its work effectively in the immediate future for the very good reason that in that short time Aboriginal attitudes and wishes will not crystallise. In the interests of the Aboriginal people we should keep to some extent an open mind in the way in which we should help them get what they want 
Question resolved  in the  affirmative. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
What sum was provided in the 1976-77 Budget estimates for (a) age pensions, (b) invalid pensions, (c) widows pensions, (d) unemployment benefits, (e) sickness benefits, (f) special benefits, (g) family allowances and (h) other social security benefits and allowances. 
What amount of expenditure in respect of each of the above  items was  included in each month's statement of financial transactions during 1 976-77 to date. 
-I give notice that on general business Thursday No. 5, 1 shall move: 
That, in the opinion of this House, it would facilitate the raising of money for the Government's capital works program if bonds and annuities were to be on sale subject to the following conditions: 
The securities should be fully indexed in accordance with movements in the consumer price index; 
The securities should be available only to enrolled Australian citizens; 
The securities should be non-transferable bonds to mature only on the death of the purchaser and annuities to be for the life of the purchaser or jointly for the lives of the purchaser and spouse; 
The amounts of these indexed securities held by any one person should be limited. 
And that the House is further of the opinion that, if properly handled, the issue of set securities would assist in the reduction of general interest rates. 
I further give notice that on general business Thursday No. 1 - 
-I give notice that on general business Thursday No. 1 , 1 shall move: 
That in the opinion of this House the system of unemployment benefits should be restructured so that some ofthe current abuses of the scheme can be avoided and, at the same time, more adequate assistance be given to genuine cases in real need. 
Disabled Persons 
-I give notice that on general business Thursday No. 2, 1 shall move: 
That in the opinion of this House the end of the era of high interest rates, inaugurated by the previous Labour Administration, is already long overdue, and 
That, accordingly, this House is of the opinion that the Government should devise and implement a plan for substantial reduction of interest rates. 
Financial Corporations 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That, in the opinion of this House, the proper adviser of the Governor-General in relation to the discharge of his duties under section 56 of the Constitution, insofar as they relate to appropriation of revenue of moneys for the service of this House, is not a Minister but  Mr Speaker. 
Brisbane Airport 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That this House and the nation are entitled to better information about subversive communist activities in the community so that people may know who their real enemies are and may be enabled to take measures to protect themselves from them. 
Foreign Policy 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That I have leave to present a Bill for an Act to provide for the granting of Supply on the dissolution of both Houses of Parliament in case of certain deadlocks between them. 
-Her Majesty's speech expressed the hope of economic progress. That hope cannot be realised without positive policies and positive action on our part. It is possible to argue about the depth of the recession or the extent of the recovery; but no reasonable argument is possible against the proposition that our economy is flagging and should be quickened. One thing that would do that is tax reduction. Surely nobody would argue that tax reduction would not quicken the economy. It would provide a stimulus in 4 ways: It would reduce costs by a reduction of indirect charges; it would be an anti-inflationary measure; it would add to incentive for those who find their marginal earnings heavily taxed; and it would increase consumer spending. 
Why not, therefore, have tax reductions? The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has given us some reasons. I want to summarise the argument that he has put forward. He says that tax reduction would increase our deficit; that if we did not fund that deficit by loans there would be an addition to the money supply, which would be inflationary; and that if we did fund it by extra loans there would be a rise in interest rates, which would impede recovery. So on those grounds, putting that argument forward, the Prime Minister says that at the present moment tax reduction would be irresponsible. For the sake of the present argument, let me accept 2 statements by the Prime Minister which I consider questionable. I consider it questionable that he should describe the capital expenditure of over $3,000m in the Budget as being a deficit. I consider it questionable that an unfunded deficit would always add to inflation and raise prices, although I concede that in some circumstances it would. But these are things which are irrelevant to the proposition which I am presently putting forward. In my view there is a way of funding the deficit without putting up interest rates. That is the proposition that I want to put to the House tonight. 
I can see the relevance of the argument of the Prime Minister and the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  that if they go to the market to raise an extra $ 1,000m in order to cover tax reduction, shall I say, interest rates will rise. I can see that that would occur if they went to the market in the conventional and ordinary way. But this is where I think they are wrong. It is not necessary to confine oneself to these methods in approaching the market. In the old days- not so very long ago- a loan was taken up to a large extent by private subscribers, not by professional investors. This is not longer the case. Private subscriptions are relatively small today because naturally those who otherwise would purchase bonds are frightened by inflation. They say: 'Why should we put money into long term bonds at 1014 per cent interest when we can get 1 1 per cent or 12 per cent on the market where it is equally safe and where we have a chance of retrieving our money fairly quickly should we want it?' 
As my friend across the chamber suggests, sometimes they may be wrong and may make a misjudgment. But in general, for example, they would think of call deposits with building societies and things of this character which rightly they would judge as comparatively safe. So they do not go in for loans. Still, this market is one which should be available and it would be available if we were to offer to the public bonds which were indexed both as to yield and as to redemption. This would attract the little men. I would not suggest that we make bonds of this character available to the professional market. 
I suggest that we put the bonds out with 4 reservations. First, I think that they should be sold only to Australians who are enrolled on the Commonwealth electoral roll. Secondly, I suggest that they be non-transferable, that is to say, that when someone buys them they would be his and they would be redeemable only on his death; but they would be a permanent investment, permanently anchoring the funds in the market. Thirdly, I suggest that they be fully indexed on the consumer price index both as to yield and as to ultimate redemption. Fourthly I suggest that any one holder should be allowed to purchase only a limited quantity of bonds. This would keep the professional investor, the institutional investor, the speculator, out of this market. It would be a market for the little man, the person who we really want to get to subscribe to the bonds and who by subscribing would have the security of his income for life protected against the erosion of inflation, and the return of capital after death to his estate for the benefit of his children again would be protected from any inflation erosion. 
I suggest that in addition to selling normal bonds we should do something which was centuries ago a part of public finance but which has been allowed to fall into desuetude. We should sell indexed annuities, annuities on the whole of life either of the person who purchases them or jointly on the lives of him and his spouse. They would pay their amount in at the present moment and they would purchase for each $100 a certain amount of annuity which would be expressed as a sum of so many dollars a year but which would be indexed and would go up with any rise in the CPI. Those purchasers would have an income for life secure from inflation. I suggest that this is something which would be attractive to many people and particularly to many people who would like to split their capital and put some of it into bonds so that their children would have it erosion proof at the time of the investor's death and some of it into an erosion proof annuity which would pay of course at a great deal higher rate than the bond rate so that they would have that at the higher income during the course of their life. Again it would be erosion proof. 
I think this scheme would be attractive to very many people. I do not believe that it would be difficult to raise very considerable sums in this way. While I am suggesting that the interest rate be comparatively modest both for the bonds and for the calculation of the annuity- which of course would depend upon the age of the purchaser- I think that there would be no difficulty whatsoever in the Treasurer raising whatever money he wanted to cover what he calls the Budget deficit but which is really the amount that we spend on capital works from the Federal Budget. There would be no difficulty whatsoever in raising $3,000m or $4,000m a year on the Australian market from people who would want to get security for life against inflation. It may be said that it is expensive for future Federal Budgets, but this surely is a delusion. The Federal Budget draws its revenue from the incomes of the time. If the CPI increases, without any increase in rates and, allowing for the full indexation of income tax which we brought in, there would still be no difficulty at all in meeting the amount. The Federal Government can do in this what no other concern can do. The Federal Government itself has its revenues inflation proofed. 
I think that there is nothing extravagant in this proposal. All I am suggesting is that the amount we raise be the amount we spend from the Budget on capital works. It is not in any way outrageous or extravagant to say that capital works should be financed by loan. Sure, the Federal Treasury will be giving up the opportunity to swindle its citizens through inflation. That, of course, is something which revolts every Treasury officer but it should not be something which revolts every member of this Parliament. To give up the chance of swindling citizens for the future is quite different from incurring an unreasonable expense in the loans to them for the future. 
If this course were adopted the Federal Treasurer could raise his loans without going to the professional market. This would mean that he would be able to say to the professional market: 'Interest rates down'. This is one of the most important features of what I am putting forward. Interest rates in Australia are extravagantly high. They are not high because we need to protect our currency against an outflow of funds, the classical mechanism. On the contrary, we have had to protect our currency from an inflow of funds by variable deposit requirements which was simply a means of keeping up local interest rates or, shall I say, preventing the inflow of funds from pushing local interest rates down. The Treasurer- we can understand what he is saying -says: 'I have to get funds. I have to raise the money. I have to get subscriptions and I will not get subscriptions unless I put up my bond rates'. By putting up his bond rates the Treasurer is putting up every other rate in the market. 
Let me put this quite plainly. Australian interest rates are extravagantly high not because of any pressures of foreign funds but because the Treasurer in order to raise his local money has to offer high interest rates. I am saying that if we look at this in a sensible way and if we go for indexed personal bonds and indexed personal annuities- which I think might be even more important than the bonds- in quantity the Treasurer could tell professional investors to go to hell. He could offer bonds only at a low interest rate because he would not be worrying whether the professional investors subscribed to them or not. This would immediately revivify the whole of the economy. If one can get interest rates down business will be picking up. This is the mechanism to do it. It is not unfair on the insurance companies, for example, because the insurance companies- I speak particularly of the mutual insurance companies which do not have any shareholders- will make large windfall gains. The capital value of their portfolios will rise substantially as interest rates fall. They will be able to compensate themselves for the fact that their future investments will be at a lower rate of interest. 
One may say that this is a simplistic plan. It is in a way. It has a simplicity, but it will work. It will not put a strain on the other capital markets because as moneys are withdrawn to pay for bonds they will be disbursed by the Government, particularly in the form of tax reduction. As I said before, this will stimulate the whole of the economy and make all the difference to our present outlook. At the present moment we are cabined into stagflation. The economy is stagnant and it is not going ahead as it should. 
I offer in this way 2 things. I offer, firstly, a way of reducing taxes without inflation. It will reduce taxes in a way which is counter inflationary because it will enable costs to be reduced and it will enable indirect charges to be lifted. Secondly, I offer the reduction of interest rates throughout the whole of the Australian economy. I am not suggesting that one takes any terribly drastic action. One may want to do things gradually and not in a very disturbing and drastic way. This simple measure will change the whole outlook of the Australian economy and get us out of the morass in which we are still floundering. 
It is, of course, not possible to reply in any detail to the comprehensive and very effective introduction to this debate which was made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock).  We all have to concentrate on just one or two things. For us in Australia, as for all people, foreign policy must be directed towards our own interests. We in Australia do not determine world politics. We may sometimes act as an honest broker, but we should not exaggerate the influence we wield. We have to observe what happens on the wider scene, adjust outselves to it, and inside that framework look after our own interests. Our problem in Australia now is one of sheer survival because the dream world of security which we once had is now gone, and I fear gone forever. No longer have we the automatic effective protection upon which, except for that small Japanese interlude, we have always been able to rely and inside whose aura the Australian nation has been able to forge its own foreign policy. 
In this wider world which we observe and in which we have to live, for the last 30 years all history has been the history of the communist push to dominate the whole of the rest of the world. That is what 30 years of history has been about and what the next decades of history, I fear, may well be about. With that, all foreign policy in fact has been atomic policy, because it has been the nature and the possession of the new weapons which have determined the course of history and the way in which the greater nations could act in order to further what they thought were their own interests. We all recognise now that neither side can face willingly the consequences of total war. So, with the communist push remaining, the will to dominate still there and the scandal of totalitarianism still spreading like a cancer all over the world, even the worst willed have had to have recourse to weapons which are in a sense short of being weapons of total war and are in a sense, one might say, the weapons of peace. The objective is not peace. The objective is total. Survival is threatened just as much as by the cruder weapons of total war.  Vae victis.  There is no hope, no prospect, in surrender. 
Although the issue of war is still as bloody and as violent as the issue of total war, in this phase it is going forward in ways which are short of the total means of conducting it. To paralyse the will to resist is the rationale of the communist attack upon us. For Australia, that is to paralyse the will to survive. The war is now being fought both in Australia and elsewhere on what we could call the political front. We allow the communists to organise against us, but because of their totalitarian organisation we are unable to organise similarly against them inside their countries. If there were freedom, if the balance were held equally and if both sides had the same access, then the position would be quite different. I believe that in the big totalitarian centres of Moscow and Peking there is still the same desire for freedom on the part of the masses of the people but there is not the same capacity to exercise freedom. The appalling irony of it is that the mechanisms of freedom among us are being used to destroy our ultimate freedom. 
I want to talk of something small in this great context. After all, these great issues are the accumulation, the concatenation of small things. Let me speak of something that came into my hand only a few moments ago from the official Soviet sources. It is the Novosti Press Agency release on the arrest of a man called Yuri Orlov. I will not be able to read the whole of the article but so that it may not be thought that I am distorting it I ask for leave to incorporate the whole of the article in  Hansard. 
I want to draw the attention of the House to something that the New South Wales Government is proposing to do and the disastrous consequences it could have for the city of Sydney. During the term of office of the Liberal Government in New South Wales, it laboriously put together a series of corridors which could be the arteries for the future traffic of Sydney. These apparently are to be sold by the State Government which intends by so doing to make it impossible for Sydney ever to be a well trafficked city. I know that there is always some kind of move against freeways and to some extent there can be an exacerbation of the freeway idea; but in general the freeway environmentally is the only way to save a city and to keep the traffic off the suburban roads and shopping roads on which the commercial life depends. Wantonly to disrupt these plans is quite appalling and one of the worst things that even the present New South Wales Government has contemplated. I refer particularly to those plans which affect my own electorate- the Warringah Expressway and the link between the Warringah Expressway and the Epping Road- but also we are affected by the north-western expressway because only by that expressway can the peak hour jams on the Sydney Harbour Bridge be obviated. The abandonment of the north-western expressway means that traffic through Mosman- not in my electorate- will be permanently a worry to the people of Mosman. It means that the people of my electorate will find their whole traffic future jeopardised. 
It is the stupidity of this proposal which worries me. Of course we want to keep motor cars out of the city, but the freeways that are contemplated are designed to do just that- to bypass the city. Sydney has no cross-city road to the east of the Bridge and obviously, because of the geography, there can be no bypass of Sydney to the east. So there has to be a bypass of Sydney over the Bridge. To have abandoned the western distributor and its extension to Mascot, to have abandoned the idea of the Parramatta Roadthe old main road, the main Sydney artery- is absolutely outrageous. It is stupid. As I have said, these corridors were put together with great skill and at some expense by the previous State Liberal Government. The Wran Government, which does not understand transport, is endeavouring to get everything back on public transport. To some extent I have sympathy with this view. But the Government has not understood its own principles because its own principles must involve keeping cars out of the centre of the city and preventing the car caused smog which hangs over centres of cities like Sydney and Melbourne and which must hang over every major city. I protest against the wanton stupidity of what the Wran Government is doing in trying to murder our embryo freeway system in Sydney. 
-It must have come as a great surprise to this House to learn that this Green Paper was the first that had been presented to the House in its history on the question of immigration. It is, I think, noticeable that of all things immigration has been the most bipartisan matter before this Parliament. Sure, the great immigration program of the recent decade was carried out under the aegis of a 
Liberal Government, but it was Arthur Calwell from the Labor Party who set that program on its course and we can regard this as a real bipartisan policy. This paper does not endeavour to set down policy lines. It talks of the facts on which a policy can be constructed. The honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  very rightly pointed out that immigration was only one of the ways in which the population was increased and the optimum reached. Let us have a look at the facts. 
What are the sources of our growth? There are two: natural increase, that is, the excess of births over deaths, and the net overseas movement of which migration is a part. Let us have a look first at the excess of births over deaths. Not very long ago- I think in 1971-72- this was running at 164 000 a year. This year it looks as if it will be down to about 1 10 000 a year and it is decreasing fairly rapidly. It is true that there is still this excess but it will not last for long because any sophisticated analysis of the demography of Australia will show that the net rate of reproduction is now down towards unity, that is to say, we are only just replacing our population. Indeed, when Professor Borrie made his projections he made the optimistic assumption that the net rate would not fall below unity. Looking at the detailed figures which are now available- I have not time to put the statistics before the House- it looks as though Professor Borrie had overestimated and that the net rate of reproduction will fall below unity. That is to say, within perhaps ten or twleve years from now our natural rate of increase will be not just zero; it will be negative. We will have under current practices- under current practices- a declining population by the 1990s. 
No, we have not got a declining population. We have a situation in which the decline seems to be projected but we have still an excess of births over deaths. I am saying that it will not be long under present conditions before deaths are exceeding births and we will have a declining population. This can be changed by immigration. 
Let us have a look at our net overseas movement figures. These figures include not only the settlers who are brought into Australia but also voluntary migrants, those who go overseas, those who emigrate. The net figures show that in 1968-69 there were 126 000 coming into this country but by 1972-73 this figure had fallen to 28 000. There was a small spurt in the succeeding year when the figure went up to 70 000 but in the last two completed years the figure was down to 29 000 and 20 000. This year it would appear that the figure will be bigger, but not significantly bigger. It will be of the order of 30 000 to 35 000 net, probably, by the time this financial year is completed in 3 months ' time. So immigration has tailed off and it is no longer significantly contributing to the increase in our population. 
We now come from those facts to some matters of policy. Immigration is, of course, a matter of individual people besides being a matter of total population. From the Government's point of view, from the country's point of view, let us look first at this matter of total population. Do we want a bigger population? Would we be content to remain with a population of 14 million or 15 million and then go into a gradual decline by the time the century turns? I do not think so. I do not think the ethos of growth is one we would like to discard altogether and there are one or two practical reasons why we should not do so. First, ours is an empty land. We have tremendous potential here in space, in food and in minerals. We have tremendous opportunities. We cannot, I think, be allowed by the rest of the world to leave this land empty. If we have a declining population in Australia then none of us are secure, because the eyes of the world will be justifiably turned to the unused potential which is on our continent while other continents, maybe, are groaning from the excess of population. So that is the first reason. For our own security if for nothing else we cannot accept this concept of population decline. But there is also another concept, I think. 
We are an urbanised people. We are a people who have high standards of living. We want to be able to produce for ourselves a fair degree of our own objective consumption. We cannot get the economies of scale, we cannot get the efficient production which turns out cheap cars and cheap television sets and other things of this character, unless we have a population much bigger than we have today. That does not say, of course, that we should have unlimited growth but our present population is insufficient to provide the industrial base for us to be really, truly prosperous. Therefore, from the economic point of view as well as from the security point of view, it would be better to have an increased population in Australia. The population would five better if there were more people here. I do not say, of course, that there should be an infinite number of people in Australia. We do not want to have an overcrowded Australia, but that is not a conceivable prospect within the life span of any child sitting in the Gallery, much less in my life span. So there is reason why Australia should grow and there is reason, therefore, to have an immigration policy of a quite different order of magnitude from that which we have today. It is said- I think this is the grave error that was made by the Labor Party and accepted by this Governmentthat when there is unemployment the level of migration must be cut because the migrants will compete for jobs. Over the short term that is undoubtedly true. If migrants are brought in it will add immediately to the labour force difficulties, but if migrants are not brought in it will add to the labour force difficulties in the following year because there will be no markets, there will be a lack of growth in industry and there will be no employment available. 
One of the basic reasons why there is unemployment this year is that migration has been cut down for the past 2 or 3 years. That is one of the basic reasons for unemployment today. I do not say that the world can accept indefinite growththere is not enough space on the planet for thatbut one cannot adjust quickly from a position of high growth to a position of low growth. The industrial machine, the economic machine cannot take the strains of that adjustment. That is one of the things that has happened which is responsible for the high level of unemployment in Australia today. It could be said- in fact, I would be one of the people who would say it- that the Government's measures for stimulating the economy and reducing unemployment have not been adequate. I have said that in the past and I do not retreat from that position in the slightest iota. But whatever the adequacy or inadequacy of the Government's measures, it remains undoubtedly true that the problem has been made more difficult by the accumulation of low migration figures. If we had had better migration levels in the past three or four years, we would not have the same unemployment position in Australia today. 
I say this in the face of the undoubted fact that, over the very short term, the entrance of migrants competing for jobs exacerbates the immediate unemployment position. We must think of this in a rational way and understand that what is true over the short term is the opposite over a longer term. The Government has failed to understand this. The Labor Party was itself responsible for this delusion. The Government has, I think, been slow to understand that to get out of our present troubles we will be very much helped if we could have a greater population and increased migration. 
Finally, I wish to say something about migrant sources. Above everything, we want compatibility with our own people. I should have thought that at the present time we should be looking for our main source of migrants from the United Kingdom. I cannot understand why there appears on my table from time to time appeals to me in my capacity as a member of Parliament from people who have cousins or brothers in England and who want to bring them out here but find that they are unable to do so. They may be healthy but they may not come within the very restricted categories of employment or they may not come within the very restricted categories of being close relatives. I cannot understand why these restrictions continue to be imposed by the Government at the present time and I appeal for a change of heart. In the interests of the security of Australia, in the interests of the prosperity of Australia and in the interests of increasing the rate of employment in Australia again, let us reinstate a more reasonable migration program. 
It is over 3000 years since Moses led the Jews to freedom from Pharaoh. That exodus was so hurried that they were unable to bake their bread properly and to leaven it before they left. Ever since, in commemoration of that incident, it has been important to Jews to have ceremonial unleavened bread for the Passover. This is a matter of some consequence to them. Today, honourable members received parcels of unleavened bread or matzah, as it is known, for forwarding to Jews in the Soviet Union who are unable to get the proper bread for their celebration of the Passover this year. This is one of the ways in which the atheistic Soviet Government persecutes all religions and I have here an account of the mean and horrible way in which it has endeavoured to deprive the Jews in the Soviet Union of the ceremonial bread which they need for their celebration of the Passover. I ask for leave to have this document incorporated in  Hansard. 

 The document read as follows- 

I thank the House. I will not go into the details of this shocking performance by the Soviet Union because the document will appear in  Hansard.  Those who read  Hansard  will have the full details of this outrage. But this I would say: The Soviet Union persecutes all religions. Under the pretence of freedom, we know that there are inside the borders of the Soviet Union discrimination, persecution and worse of all who profess any religion because, as Lenin said, communism is necessarily militant atheism. They are doing this, and this is their policy. The Jews in the Soviet Union have fought back. They are making their presence felt and they are getting some protection inside the Soviet Union for the practice of their religion because they have stuck together and they are demanding that they have freedom for religious practice and worship. They are getting support, and they deserve support, from their compatriots outside the Soviet Union. 
But it is not only the Jews are being persecuted for their religion. There are other faiths including, and principally, the Christian faith against which continuous outrage and a lying pretence of sufferance is perpetrated inside the Soviet Union. Some of these people in the Soviet Union had had the tremendous courage to face martyrdom to face deprivation, to face discrimination, to face persecution. They deserve our support. I wonder whether they are receiving sufficient support from their co-religionists outside the Soviet Union. I think that in this, as perhaps in other ways, the Jews are showing an example to the rest of the world. It is an example which we might well follow. I hope that the ceremonial bread will reach Moscow in time for the Passover, and I hope that honourable members will see that this is done. 
-My question is directed to the Prime Minister because it spans the work of several departments. Has his Government examined the implications of the great potentiality of the Australian territory in the Antarctic, whose area is nearly as great as that of the Australian continent itself? Although I understand that there was a ministerial visit recently, is it true that no other members of Parliament have visited the Antarctic since the expedition which I led some 20 years ago? Will the Prime Minister have prepared for the House a report upon the work done in the Antarctic? Would such a report include the scientific work, the meteorological work which relates to the Australian climate, the fishing work where there is the greatest potential in the world, the mineral work where there is some doubt as to the value - 
-This report is a joint report, a bipartisan report from all sides of the House. I do not think that the former Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  should take it too much to heart as I felt perhaps he had earlier in this debate. He was in difficult circumstances and I think that this should be taken into account by the House. It is not possible, of course, for us to pass any opinion on the evidence with regard to the matter raised by the honourable member for Wills. False evidence may have been given; I do not know. Only the Committee could judge this. The Committee did judge this evidence and I think we must accept as the fact the conclusion of the Committee after examination of the witnesses before it. I speak, however, of the very difficult circumstances. The report concerns itself to some extent with the relationship between the Minister and the Head of his Department and the officers of his Department. Ultimately, of course, a Minister is responsible for his Department. He cannot be expected to oversee every detail but for the general policy and administration, by British Parliamentary convention, the Minister must and should bear responsibility. Again I remind the House that there were difficult and indeed extenuating circumstances. I use that word not in respect of the Minister alone but also in respect of the Department and its officers. 
There was from the start some confusion here. I speak as the person who had the first ministerial responsibility in this field. I do not say that I was the Minister, because in truth I was not. I was the Minister in charge of Aboriginal Affairs as part of the Prime Minister's Department. I had a full ministry in social services but in this area I had only a secondary and delegated responsibility. I found some difficulty because the late Prime Minister, Harold Holt, had set up some kind of organisation which was still in existence at that time and which conflicted with the ideas of parliamentary authority and responsibility. He had set up a council of aboriginal affairs, consisting of  Dr Coombs, Dr Stanner  and  Mr Dexter.  In his mind, as I read it, there was some idea that this council should be extra parliamentary and independent of the Parliament; it should be like the Commonwealth Bank or some other Commonwealth instrumentality. This council was not continued by the Gorton 
Government, the McMahon Government or the Whitlam Government. Those governments thought that the responsibility should properly lie, as I think it should, in this Parliament. But there was from the beginning some kind of confusion of authority in this respect and the confusion was not made any easier by the fact that I, as the first Minister in charge, was not in this respect a full Minister as I was, for example, a full Minister in the field of social services. In this respect I was a Minister in charge as part of the Prime Minister's Department. That confusion, I think, continued and it was not made any easier by the problems with trust funds and various other accounting troubles which were starting to occur even in my time. So I can understand that there should be this confusion in the matter and I can understand how it has developed into the difficulty in the relationship between the Minister and his Department to which the report draws attention. There was another factor in that very properly it was hoped that that Department would be staffed to a great extent by people of Aboriginal origin. This also implied a certain amount of confusion and difficulty. But, as I have said, I regard this as a very proper thing. It was not an easy thing but it was certainly a proper thing for us to attempt and to carry through. 
I turn to a matter which has been referred to from time to time in the course of this debate, a matter in which I notice my name is mentioned. That is the venture for turtle farming and crocodile farming. This was started in my time. In fact, it was started just before I ceased to be the Minister in charge. It was started not as a large project but as a pilot project. I think that I allocated a maximum amount of $30,000 for experiments to be carried out. This was carried on in the following year when  Mr Howson  was the Minister and a small sum was thus given for experiments. I am not certain what happened in the third year and I am not certain whether the unwise expansion of these experiments before their impact was known occurred under the McMahon Government or the Whitlam Government. Whenever it was- and I am not trying to be partisan in this matter- it was a mistake to expand this venture before the experiments had led to any reasonable conclusion. Looking back on this venture, and having quite recently visited the Torres Strait Islands and seen the turtle farming as it exists there at the moment, I believe that the turtle farming was and could be a commercial venture, although I think that not only have very great mistakes been made but also the scale of the operation was extended before the various biological factors had been properly determined. 
Last year we saw thousands of small turtles in their containers. The great problem here is changing the diet of the turtles. Young turtles are carnivorous; they are flesh eaters. Older turtles are generally herbivorous, they feed on what is known as sea grass which is found on the floor of the sea. As I understand and as I was told by the people in the area, it is not known quite how that switch in diet can or should be made, or really at what time it is necessary to be made, or to what extent there can be substitution of diet. Even at the present moment the amount of fish needed to feed young turtles, which are carnivorous, is relatively small in weight but is expensive in processing. Young turtles in their natural state feed on a multitude of very small animals. But the small fish that are being used now to feed them have to be filleted. The fish being used are larger than the fish that the turtles would normally eat and if they were not filleted the young turtles would strangle on the bones. The filleting requires very great and intensive labour. Whether that sort of feeding can be substituted for something else at a later stage I do not know. 
As to what extent the turtles can switch to a carnivorous diet which does not have to be filleted or to an herbivorous diet, again I was told by the people in the area- I spoke to the people concerned- that there is still a great deal of uncertainty. Attempts were being made to cultivate artificially the sea grass or some other fodder for them. I do not believe that that is an economic process. There is some shortage of sea grass in the area because last year- I do not know whether or not this will be repeated- the dugongs were so plentiful in the area that they exhausted the natural resources of sea grass. So one does not know quite what is going to happen in regard to the supply of food. It may be that the proper use of the turtle farm would be to bring turtles to a certain degree of maturity and then to release them into the open sea. That may be; I do not know. I do not think the people who are concerned in the venture yet know that for certain themselves, although they may have certain ideas in that regard. 
Unfortunately at the present moment the scale of operations can scarcely be significantly contracted. The islanders have become accustomed to the operation and they see it as the venture upon which their future depends. The social effects of contracting the operation drastically would, to my way of thinking, be quite unhappy and might even be disastrous. So we are now locked into a situation which perhaps should never have arisen; but, having arisen, we have to follow it through. I urge that greater weight be given to investigations being conducted into these fundamental matters as soon as possible. 
I turn now to the crocodile farming. Again I think there is a market for the skins but not for the curio crocodile on which, I think erroneously, hopes were placed in the earlier stages of the venture. 
I believe that the experiment is well worth while and that it should be followed through. It may require the application of greater scientific resources than are being applied to it at present in order to determine certain of the fundamental facts upon which viability of the whole future of the exercise may well depend. I was glad to have an opportunity to go into the Torres Strait Islands recently and to observe at first hand, amongst other things, what was done in this turtle farming venture, and also to have an opportunity of speaking to the Torres Strait Islanders as well as to members of the staff who are controlling the venture up there. 
I come back to what I was saying at the beginning. I do not think we should take too hard a line on a matter which the honourable member for Wills regards as a censure of himself. He was placed in very difficult circumstances, and I think every honourable member should realise how difficult those circumstances were. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I desire to make a personal explanation. 
-Yes. The honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  in the course of his speech referred to me as a racist because I had criticised the Australian Labor Party's attempts to get money out of the Arabs. Let me assure him that my reference had no racist connotation. My criticism was directed to the fact that the leader of the Labor Party, the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam),  had shamefully tried to sell out Australia and to deviate his policy in order to get money out of the Arabs. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker - 
-My question is directed to the Treasurer. Does he recall writing to me on 7 April intimating that expenditure of $3869m in his Budget estimates for this year might reasonably be termed as being for capital purposes? Was this whole amount included in his estimates of expenditure, which led up to his estimate of a deficit of $2,608m? Does he recall that in making this estimate of a deficit he did not credit loan raisings for capital purposes? Is it a fact that, because of the terms of the Financial Agreement, the Commonwealth borrows money for State capital works programs and then transfers these loan proceeds to the States? In his Budget estimates, did he include the State capital works programs as a Commonwealth Budget expenditure without any offset in credit for the proceeds of loans raised on behalf of the States, so that State capital expenditures appear as part of the Commonwealth deficit? 
I move: 
That, in the opinion of this House, the system of unemployment benefits should be restructured so that some of the current abuses of the scheme can be avoided and, at the same time, more adequate assistance can be given to genuine cases in real need. 
According to the latest figures that we have, almost 250 000 people are receiving unemployment benefits. In order for a person to receive the unemployment benefit he or she must first be registered as unemployed with the Commonwealth Employment Service. According to the latest figures, 70 per cent of those registered as unemployed are drawing the unemployment benefit. Now we have been told, on inquiry, that more than 29 per cent of those registered as unemployed are not genuinely unemployed. It is obvious, therefore, that something quite serious is wrong with the system. 
Usually only 29 per cent or 30 per cent of those registered as unemployed draw the unemployment benefit. Naturally in times of high unemployment, as at present, that percentage rises. When one compares the 2 figures, it is obvious that something is seriously wrong. Much more important than what the figures show is the fact that something is seriously wrong with morale in the community. We know that many of those who are registered as unemployed are not genuinely seeking work. We know that many of those who are drawing the unemployment benefit are not genuinely seeking work. This erosion of morale, particularly among young people, is most serious for the whole community and is even more serious than the cost of the unemployment benefit, which at the present time is running at almost $600m a year. 
There are 2 things, I suppose, chiefly to be said. The unemployment benefit is necessary. Although not all of the people who draw it are entitled to it, most of them are entitled to it. Some of them are in genuine need and, I think, are entitled to even more than they are receiving in terms of the actual benefit. Sure, there are dole bludgers, but the majority of the people drawing the unemployment benefit does not fall into that class at all. By cutting down the number of dole bludgers we can give more help, as it should be given, to those in genuine need. 
Something is wrong. It is good that the Government has recognised that fact as demonstrated in the recent appointment of  Dr Meyers  to head an inquiry into the whole philosophical basis of the system of unemployment benefits. That appointment was made subsequent to my giving notice of the motion I have just moved, but I do not see any reason why the present motion should not proceed. We in this House have a duty and a responsibility to talk about some of the things on which  Dr Meyers  has been very properly appointed by the Government to report. 
The first point that I make is that the employment benefit is very necessary under the present circumstances. One is not in any way endeavouring to level an attack on those who are genuinely unemployed. 
The second point I make is that the unemployment benefit is different in character from most of the other social service payments that are made. Most of those people who receive other social service payments get that entitlement through something definite that has happened: A person is over 70 years of age or 65 years of age; a person is handicapped; a woman is widowed. These are definite events which give an entitlement to social service payments. They are not events which depend upon the whim of the recipient concerned. 
The unemployment benefit is different because it is given to those who are unemployed, most of whom are genuinely unemployed but some of whom are unemployed virtually by their own choice. The question of motivation must always be considered. Therefore the administration of the unemployment benefit has to be radically different from the administration of most other social service payments. With respect to those other social service payments, one wants the minimum of inquiry, the minimum of administration, but the maximum of privacy. Because of the nature of the unemployment benefit and the way in which it can be tied to the motivation of the recipient, the principles of administration may be entirely different. 
Let me divide the recipients of the unemployment benefit into 3 classes. Firstly, there are those who are properly in receipt of the unemployment benefit. I would say that that group accounts for by far the majority of the people concerned. One is not in any way endeavouring to attack or to impugn that genuine majority. Secondly, there are those who are in receipt of the unemployment benefit because of deficient departmental procedures. Let me give the House an example. The unemployment benefit is paid a fortnight in advance. If people obtain, as they very often do, employment in that fortnight they make in practice no refund in respect of the part of that period which they have worked, although they should. This is one of the defects in administration. I believe there are many defects and that the tightening up of administration in this respect could cut down quite substantially the cost of unemployment benefit and, incidentally, make it possible to give better benefits to those who are genuinely entitled. 
The third category is the case of deliberate fraud. I am afraid there is evidence of a good bit of deliberate fraud and moonlighting- people who have part time or even full time jobs and who register as unemployed and perhaps go from one office to another and evade the quite inadequate checks that are at present inherent in the system. So we have 3 categories- the genuine unemployed, those who are drawing the unemployment benefit because of administrative defects and those who are deliberately defrauding the Government. All 3 categories exist. The great majority of unemployed people are in the first category. They are the people who are genuinely entitled to the benefit. We have to find some way of endeavouring to remedy the defects and to cut out improper payments. Perhaps we could also find some ambit for an increase in the level of proper payments. 
Something more should be done about the staffing of the Commonwealth Employment Service. There has not been an adequate increase in the staff in spite of the fact that recently the Government did allow a certain increase. The Service has been quite overstretched. The staff was quite adequate when there was a small number of unemployed. But that number has multiplied by five, six or seven times and as a result the staff cannot give proper attention to its work, it cannot police the payment of unemployment benefit and it cannot help adequately in finding jobs. 
Some time ago during the time of the Labor Administration there was a proposal to provide computer facilities to the Commonwealth Employment Service and to the Department of Social Security to facilitate the finding of jobs and the payment of the unemployment benefit. That proposal was canned by the previous Labor Administration in the interests of so-called economy. Therefore the proposal was not adopted. I believe that at the present time there are some moves to reverse that decision. I am sorry that the present Government has been a little slow to reverse a Labor mistake. But it is essential for the proper operation of the Service that use be made of a computer. 
I would now like to refer to the administration of the work test, which is an important subject. If the administration of the work test is to be conducted in a feasible way work must be available. I believe that more should be done to make work available either on a part time or a full time basis. I am not altogether an opponent of the socalled Regional Employment Development scheme of the previous Government. This scheme, which was abandoned by the Labor Government, was in many respects very badly administered. However, it was a scheme which did have some kind of inherent merit which might be considered. But the work test should undoubtedly be tightened up. However, as I have said, more work must be available than there is at the moment for the work test to operate successfully. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! The time allotted for precedence to general business has expired. The honourable member for Mackellar will have leave to continue his speech when the debate is resumed. The resumption of the debate will be made an order of the day under general business for the next sitting. 
I realise that I have only a couple of minutes, but I take this opportunity to say something, and I will continue my remarks at a later time. Sure, there are great dangers in nuclear energy and its development, but there are even greater dangers in not developing nuclear energy. That is true both on a global scale and in regard to Australia's own particular interests. It seems to me that we should be looking at both the world situation and the particular interests of Australia. In relation to the world, let me say this: I withdraw nothing that I said previously in regard to the dangers of world nuclear proliferation. 
Debate interrupted. 
-In his statement of 18 February last the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  deplored the tendency of Australians to save to excess, pointing out how these excess savings were largely responsible for the present high unemployment. It is true enough, as he then implied, that unemployment can be regarded as the smell of savings going rancid because they are lying about unused. The decision as to how much anyone is to save is always personal. At present there is no profitable private investment available for the total of our savings, so it is better to apply them to public purposes rather than to leave them to rot. After all, there are plenty of public works which can add to our productive capacity, or improve our living standardselectricity, water and sewerage, transport, irrigation, hospitals, etc. If we use our idle resources to build these things now, we will make ourselves better off because we will have them in the future. 
It is sometimes objected that, if we raise loans for these capital works, we will be mortgaging the future and will be piling up mountains of debt for future generations to meet. But the debt, if locally raised, is borrowed from ourselves, so that the money credits equal the money debits and the capital works constructed will remain as a real bonus. Over the past thirty or forty years, although we have been raising loans to pay for at least some of our capital works, the so-called burden of debt has, in fact, decreased drastically. There are 2 main causes for this drastic decrease: Firstly, each year we pay part of our taxes to a sinking fund, which uses the money to buy securities and then cancels them; secondly, rising population, rising prices and rising incomes have lessened the real weight of our loan indebtedness. I ask permission to incorporate in  Hansard 2  tables prepared for me by the Parliamentary Library, which illustrate this process. 
I raise a point of order,  Mr Speaker,  on a technical matter which arises from page 1445 and page 1446 of  Hansard  of last Tuesday. It concerns a matter that I mentioned to you yesterday. The record shows that the Leader of the House,  Mr Sinclair,  moved that a paper be printed. I moved that the debate be adjourned. The  Hansard  record reads: 
-Sir, I seek leave to make a personal explanation. 
-Yes, indeed. 
-Some weeks ago I circulated among some members of this House and some people outside it a copy of a Treasury paper given to the Labor Cabinet. Doubts have been cast on the authenticity of this document. Therefore I want to make a statement in regard to it. 

 -Yes, Sir, I have, for example, a letter from Professor  Sir Leslie  Melville saying, and I quote it exactly: 
I cannot believe that this muddled document represents a Treasury view - 
-Sir, I want to establish the authenticity of this paper. My veracity in the matter has been questioned and I think I am entitled to make an explanation. 
-The Minister for Primary Industry will recall that the decline in the comparative prices of wool in recent decades has been due not only to the advent of synthetics but also to the adoption of heating practices in buildings, particularly in the United States of America, resulting in a reduction in the wearing of warm garments. Has the Minister noted the recent energy conservation initiatives of President Carter, particularly his appeal to United States citizens to reduce oil and gas consumption by turning down the thermostats in their homes in winter? Would this not suggest that there should be a very large market for woollen blankets and clothing opening up in the United States of America this coming winter. Will the Minister ask the Australian wool authorities to undertake a substantial wool promotion campaign in the United States of America keyed into President 
Carter's initiatives and pointing out the great capacity of wool to satisfy the requirements of the  President  's objectives. 
-I cannot deny that there is some substance in the amendment moved by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford).  When I read the amendment I was reminded irresistibly of Blake's couplet: 
A truth that's told with bad intent 
Beats all the lies you can invent. 
In the policy of the Australian Labor Party there are so many things that are bad that none of us would want to buy the package as a whole, even if one or two good items are in it. The economy of Australia now needs encouragement, not castigation. One hopes that these Supply Bills will not be the precursor to a hard Budget, because a hard Budget is needed by the economy like a hole in the head. I understand the troubles of the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  which arise very largely and almost entirely through the charging of capital works against revenue. People do not understand that State loan programs appear as part of the Federal Government's deficit. Until we get some kind of honesty in the presentation of accounts we will always have these Budget difficulties which are now throwing our present Treasurer in to these kinds of economic contortions. This is not the first time that this has happened. I regret to say that this bad habit arose in a small way under the Menzies' Government and it subsequently developed. I have protested against it in the House and in the Cabinet room on many occasions. I do not withdraw my protests now. In the time of the Labor Government similar protests were raised in some quarters and the Department of the Treasury squashed them by presenting to Ministers a memorandum which was shown to me at that time. I have a copy of that memorandum in my hand. It deceived the rather naive Labor Party Ministers just as I am afraid it deceived and still deceives our Ministers. The memorandum was reissued a little while ago by the present Treasurer. He sent it to  Senator Wright  with these words: 
You recently asked my Principal Private Secretary for some additional documentation concerning options for financing the Government deficit. 
The Treasury has given me a further paper on the subject from their files and I now forward it in the hope that it will be of assistance to you. 
When I saw that paper I recognised it as probably verbatim, but at any rate in substance, as the paper which was given to Labor Party Ministers and which perhaps had even been given in draft form to earlier Ministers. I showed that Treasury submission to Professor  Sir Leslie  Melville. He wrote me a letter in regard to it on 28 April and he concluded with these words: 
You refer to your comments to it as a Treasury presentation but 1 cannot believe that this muddled document represents a Treasury view. 
He was unable to believe that it was a Treasury paper. Certain other people have had the same difficulty in believing that a paper of that muddled character could emanate from the Treasury. Professor  Sir Leslie  Melville is perhaps the most dintinguished and experienced economist we have in Australia. Certainly he is the most experienced and distinguished economist still active. As honourable members know he has been a director of Australian Reserve Bank and Government economic policy for many years. He sent me that comment. I telephoned him and asked whether I could publish his letter. He said: You can circulate it, but do not publish it until I redraft it because it was written in some haste. I would rather like to revise it before you do so'. He has now sent me a letter dated 1 1 May. I have that letter in my hand. I ask for permission for the letter to be incorporated in  Hansard. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation to correct a misrepresentation. 
-Yes. On the first page of the  Financial Review  today reference is made to my tabling yesterday a paper from the Treasury regarding a restructuring of accounts. It implies quite clearly that it was a current paper. As a matter of fact, it was not a current paper. It was a paper prepared for a previous Ministry which had been recirculated by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  recently. I want to make it quite clear, because there is quite a considerable and important misrepresentation flowing from what is in the  Financial Review. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Defence. I refer to disquieting reports of the build-up of the armed forces of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. Insofar as this can be done within the limits of intelligence security, will the Minister have prepared for the information of honourable members a report showing the increase in the conventional armed forces of the Soviet Union during recent times and the nature, extent and location of Soviet armed forces distinguishing, as far as possible, between conventional and non-conventional weaponry? Will he also include any available information as to the proportions of the Soviet budget and national income being devoted to preparations for war? 
It is a little hard to follow the reasoning and attitude of the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating).  On one side we had the high minded moral attitudes. On the other side we had the grubby, greasy paw extended. We have always known that he does not realise whether he is Arthur or Martha. That has never been more clear than today. I know he is uncomfortable with the attitudes of his own Party. 
This debate is about whether Australia should develop and export its uranium resources. Australia has the greatest known resources of cheap uranium in the world. It is not just a case of whether the world will have uranium because plenty of uranium is available in other countries. It is a case of whether there will be a world shortage of uranium. Those who have been taking the high moral attitude have talked about the danger of world disaster from the nuclear industry. Much, indeed nearly all, of what they have said is true. The weakness of the argument is that the danger will exist irrespective of whether Australia develops and exports uranium. 
An Australian decision to deny or restrict that development would, in no way, decrease any of the real dangers to which they have drawn attention. On the contrary, for reasons I shall give in a moment, it would increase those dangers. Exports of uranium from Australia will do nothing to add to the dangers. Pandora's box is open. Australia cannot close it. 
The world needs power; it needs energy. For electrical energy which is a great part of the world's need there is no quick source available except nuclear power. It is the cheapest, cleanest and safest form of power available. It is the cheapest because of the rise in the prices of fossil fuels. To Australia, perhaps, with its abundant supplies of fossil fuels, there is not the same advantage. But for other countries, less fortunate than Australia, cheapness is of some consequence. Nuclear power is the cleanest form of power. Fossil fuels cause pollution and dangers in a way which nuclear power does not. We are all worried, looking ahead, about the change in the earth's atmosphere which can come from the development of fossil fuel plants and the increase in the percentage of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. We can conjecture the consequences. We cannot be certain of them. However, the conjecture is not very nice. We see over our cities a haze of pollution. Nuclear power will help us to dissipate that haze. It is the safest form of energy. 
No form of energy is free from difficulties and dangers. But if one adds up the dangers and deaths that we know occur from fossil fuel- in the coal mines, in the transport of fuel and by respiratory disease- we know that they are orders of magnitude greater than even the worst conjectures of the dangers from nuclear power. Nothing in this world is completely safe. Nuclear power is the safest form of energy available to us. 
Those who would deny that power to the rest of the world face a dreadful responsibility. The world's population grows exponentially and already famine looks to be round the corner. It is only by power, energy, with its effect on the availability of transport and fertiliser and things of this character that we can hope to reduce the danger of world starvation and deprivation. 
We in Australia have a very healthy kind of life, a comparatively luxurious kind of life. Are we to deny those advantages to the rest of the world because we want to sit on those sources of power which are here by geological chance in the Australian soil? The world will not tolerate that, I would think. But it is worse than that. Starving people are desperate people. People deprived of the means of material advance have a habit of seizing what they cannot get by peaceful means. If one thinks of the danger of war, and nuclear war, one of the things we can best do to add to that danger would be to deprive the rest of the world of power, of energy. This is what the policy of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  is designed to do. 
There is a dreadful responsibility on those who, in Australia and elsewhere in the world over the last four or five years, have campaigned as they have against the growth of nuclear energy. Let them remember that in the coming decades millions of people will starve to death because of what they have done. Let them try to bear on their consciences the guilt of those deaths which are now, I am afraid, irrevocable because there is a time lag in all these things. A delay of four or five years has already cost the world dearly enough. 
I am not going to go into the motives or the manipulations of those who have campaigned against nuclear power. I simply draw to the attention of the House the fact that we had a very well organised and well orchestrated campaign. It has not occurred by chance. I am willing to say that in this, as in other cases, most of the victims of this campaign have been sincere people who just do not know what has been done to them, who has done it or why they have done it. 
I return to the fact that it is Australia's responsibility to the world to mine and make available uranium as quickly as possible. I return to our position here. In a way the Fox reports are already out of date because 3 things have happened which have made them outdated. First there is the impact of the power crisis whose magnitude we have realised only in the last few months. Second there are the Carter initiatives in regard to breeder reactors. I say in passing- it is obviously true- that if we deny ample supplies of uranium to the world we will immensely increase, in Japan and Italy and elsewhere- as the honourable member for Blaxland said a few moments ago- the drive towards the fast breeder reactor. Those who think that there are special dangers in the fast breeder reactor in present circumstances might well consider that by denying uranium to the world they are making the development of that fast breeder reactor inevitable. There is a third thing, which is a local thing, on which perhaps I should not dwell too much. That is that the Australian Atomic Energy Commission has made new discoveries in the Alligator River area, not proved as to their magnitude but indicating that under that plain there are numbers of Nabarleks, Rangers and Pancontinentals still to be discovered. 
What about our own Australian advantages? Firstly, the development of uranium would add tremendously to our budget revenues. It would be a profitable trade. I hope that it will all be in Australian hands, but whether or not it is in Australian hands the companies involved will be paying nearly half their profits into the Federal budget. Those profits, looking ahead, would be enough to pay our age pensioners. Who is going to talk about the greasy paws of the age pensioners? I do not think those are suitable words. Surely there is nothing wrong in a government's thinking ahead for its own revenues on which social development and welfare payments may well depend. 
But secondly there is this little matter of the balance of payments on foreign account. On current account we are already deeply in the red. We are not paying our way. And this is at a time when we are able to produce from our own resources 70 per cent of our oil requirements. We will not produce 70 per cent of our oil requirements from our own known resources very long. It is only six or seven years before we have to find another  $2i  billion or $3 billion a year in foreign exchange in order to keep our motor transport running. 
Let those who want to delay the development of our uranium remember that they are opting for permanent petrol shortages for the whole of the Australian community. What about these greasy petrol tanks? It is fine to talk of them like that, is it not? But it will not be so fine when the people cannot fill up their cars at the nearest petrol bowser. 
-Sure. That is why it is important to get this development under way as quickly as possible. Speed is of the essence in this because there is a long inbuilt delay between the decision to develop and the actual mining and export of the uranium. It is a delay of years. Time is short- for the Australian Budget, for the Australian motorist. But worse than that, time is short for the world. Those who want to delay our development of uranium bear a dreadful responsibility not only to the Australian people but also to the people who in decades to come will be starving because we did not do things now. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Although I do not agree with everything that the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  has said, I think that the House will agree that his speech tonight stands out as a shining exception to the high-powered hysteria which has characterised the speeches on this matter of honourable members from the other side. We have heard from them- I make that exception- an almost unadulterated farrago of absurdities. What they had been saying is factually untrue and exaggerated out of all reason. I think it should be a subject for ridicule were it not so serious. I would like to incorporate in  Hansard- I  do not have time to read it out now; I do have the permission of the Opposition to incorporate it- a sardonic little comment which appeared last month in  Atom News,  an English publication. I ask leave of the House to incorporate it in  Hansard. 
I thank the House. We have heard from members of the Opposition about nuclear waste. The truth is that nuclear waste can be controlled. Recently when I was in Europe I verified that provisions had been made there. There is no doubt among scientists that the vitrification process, among other processes, will work. Even if that process were not 100 per cent successful it would not be a matter of very grave consequence. 
We have heard about the fear of radiation. But every one of us here is subjected throughout our lives to radiation far more intense than that which is spoken of so much by the Opposition. Cosmic radiation constantly streams down from the sun. If members of the Opposition want to talk about the added burden of radiation they should consider that the added burden of living in Canberra, 2,000 feet above sea level, is 100 times as great as the added burden projected from the worst kind of nuclear proliferation. People lose all sense of proportion. One would get more radiation sitting in front of a coloured television set. This is also the case if one wears a wristlet watch. If one is worried about the genetic effects of radiation one should not put one's hand and watch into one's pocket. The danger has been blown up deliberately out of all sense of proportion. 
We have heard about the operating dangers. The truth is that nuclear energy is the safest and cleanest method of producing electric power yet devised by man. We are told that sometimes a fatal accident can happen. However, the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James),  who should know, told us nothing about the fatal accidents which must occur all the time in coal mines and in the transport and combustion of coal. The dangers are 100 times more lethal in a coal fired station than they could be in the worst nuclear station. I do not know whether all sense of proportion has been lost or whether the facts have been deliberately distorted- let the Opposition answer that question if it will. No human activity is completely safe. One cannot go on the roads without endangering one's life. The truth is that nuclear energy is the safest and cleanest form of power yet devised and those who are saying to the contrary are either ignorant or badly motivated. 
It is true that in the nuclear process there is a danger of proliferation. What is not said is that the program for nuclear power adds nothing at all to that danger, which is a dreadful danger and already exists. But it is irrelevant to what we are now discussing. 
There will be a world shortage of energy because it is on energy that the raising of living standards throughout the world depends. It is true that we are all right in Australia. We have plenty of sources of energy. Are we sufficiently racist to deny to the rest of the world the opportunity to raise its living standards, because it will be on the production of energy that that mainly will depend? Is India always to be poor? Are the people of the East always to starve? We are all right here in Australia; we have plenty. But are we to deny those countries the power to go ahead and the energy which alone can allow them to raise their living standards? 
I hope- we all hope- that other sources of electrical energy will appear. Let us study them. Let us try to develop these sources by every means in our power, whether the source be solar energy, geothermal energy or whatever it may be. 
The brute truth of the matter is this: There is no other conceivable form of generating electrical energy which is at the present moment practicable. Let us try in every way to get other sources. Let us try in every way to improve our nuclear devices, to go into fusion as well as into fission. All right, let us do all these things. But at the present moment there is nothing else on which we can rely. 
I would like to speak very briefly about the oil position because this is a crucial matter particularly since many of those countries which depend on oil are looking for nuclear power as the only possible substitute. It is not very long ago since the Arab nations- I refer particularly to the Iraqis- were going out on a campaign to prevent nuclear and other alternative sources of energy being developed so as they could put up their oil prices. They have now changed their minds in that regard. The strategy of the Arab oil countries is now quite different and quite understandable. It is the strategy I think first devised by the Shah of Persia and spoken of some two or three years ago. Their idea now is to limit their oil production so that they can spin out their reserves and so they will last them longer. Oil, as the Shah says, is the noble fuel. We will find soon, in the next year or two, not that the Arab countries cannot produce the oil but that they will not want to produce it in unlimited quantities- and who shall blame them. It is their oil and they are being conservationists in a reasonable way. Because of this the oil shortage may bite rather sooner than people expect. Of course, oil is a finite resource which will not last indefinitely, whatever one does. Sooner or later there will be an absolute oil crisis. But there may be a mini crisis before that time. 
In the short time that remains to me I want to talk about two mysteries that arise in this nuclear debate. The first one is: Why has there been this world wide orchestration of opposition to nuclear power? It is not happening only in Australia. It is part of a concerted propaganda move financed with a great deal of money and carried out at the highest level. The hidden persuaders are at work all over the globe. Just who are these people? That is the first mystery. 
The second mystery is related to the first and it is this: Why has the Labor Party in Australia changed its tune? It is only two or three years since it advocated uranium mining and development. Why the change? There is a Ciceronian phrase 'cui bono' which means: 'Who got the cop; to whose advantage was it?' There is, I am afraid, one answer It is to the advantage of the communist world to see that our world is handicapped and hobbled. That is what the communists are doing now and what they are using their friends in the Labor Party and elsewhere to do for them. It is no coincidence that so many people who are concerned with the nuclear protest here in Australia have left wing links. Look at the left wing links, for example, of the socalled academics who are foremost in this antiuranium campaign. Look at the number of communist unionists and communist led unions who are in it. There is no doubt about this. 
It is a clear contrast with the situation in Russia and other communist countries where nuclear development forges ahead all the time. The communists are conning us into hobbling ourselves while they go forward. They laugh at us. Cui bono? Answer it for yourself. The communists need a crisis, a crisis of energy in the world, and if they succeed in this campaign they will succeed in creating that crisis. 
But what of the other side of the mystery? Only a few years ago the Opposition was supporting nuclear development enthusiastically so why has it changed its tune? There is one simple explanation. One knows the extent to which communist influence in the trade unions and elsewhere sways the thinking of the Opposition. We know that the Opposition is the pawn, sometimes the unthinking pawn, of the communists from time to time and perhaps that is the explanation. But is it the whole explanation? I want to refer back to what happened a couple of years ago when the Arabs had another kind of oil policy and the 
Iraqis were trying to sprag nuclear development throughout the world and throughout Australia. There was a breakfast. There was a time at which the Iraqis were in cahoots with the present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  who asked them for half a million dollars and may well have got it. What happened at that breakfast? Did the Leader of the Opposition, for half a million dollars, agree to sell out Australia and change the policy of his Party? It is a question which the country might well ask. It is a question which is well worth answering. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Defence. He will recall that recently, in response to a request from me, he prepared certain information regarding Soviet military preparations. In view of the value of that information will he now consider making it available to the House in the form of a White Paper, an incorporation in  Hansard  or in some other fashion? 
-This is not an easy speech for me to make, and, as I proceed, the House will realise that it is not a very pleasant one. Nevertheless it is one which must be made. I am more than ever convinced that the financial strategy of the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  is fundamentally wrong and indeed counter-productive. I am not going to vote for the Budget which embodies that strategy. 
There is no need for me to reiterate that the Treasurer's policy has not worked out as he expected- his own statements in the first half of 1976 prove that clearly enough. In April and May of that year he was telling us that the upswing had started, and, even though it might take some time to complete, we would see its benefits soon. 
It has not turned out like that at all. Unemployment- the main indicator- continues to climb, and the economy is still going backward. So far from laying the foundations for sound recovery, the Treasurer has contrived to erode still further the shaky base he inherited in December 1975. 
Three reasons can be given as to why the economy is in worse shape today than it was then. They are: 
Our overseas balance on current account has deteriorated further- last financial year we were $ 1,900m in the red, and the downward trend is steepening. We have great natural resources, our rate of development is minimal; our population growth is tapering off- and still we cannot pay our way. We are forced to expedients such as overseas borrowings and selling out our capital to foreign investors in order to avoid international bankruptcy. It is a shocking performance. 
In the past two years we have allowed our productive equipment to fall behind that of the rest of the world. Our factories have been unable to install new plant or modernise old plant to an adequate extent. Our mineral development, compared to our opportunities, has been pitiful. Our primary industries are falling into disarray. 
Morale has declined, especially in the younger groups, where unemployment has been heaviest. Perhaps the earlier phases of the recession may have sharpened the will to work; but the prolonged recession has tended to produce industrial sullenness, and the rebirth of the go-slow syndrome. 
The Treasurer's directions for the Australian economy are palpably astray, and in this present Budget he stubbornly refuses to face up to this. He has run us info a dead end, but apparently he proposes to crash on regardless. He must be made to change his course. 
He has an obsession with inflation, and tells us that his whole policy is directed to this one overriding problem. However, inflation is not in itself a disease, but only a symptom of a disease- a symptom of some deeper disorder. To concentrate upon inflation alone is really a superficial and cosmetic approach, which evades dealing with the main disorder. 
Fundamentally, the trouble appears to be that our old rate of personal saving, which was appropriate to the time when our population was growing much faster and our need for capital investment was much greater, is now too high for our new circumstances, especially in the light of restrictive Budget and Loan Council policies. 
More saving means less consumption. Less consumption means restricted sales. Restricted sales mean less opportunity for profitable investment. So, as savings increase, the need for savings goes down, and there is no use for the surplus. It is not just a vicious spiral; it is a kind of double helix. In this sense, the unemployment which we are now experiencing is simply the smell of savings going rancid, because there is no use for them, and unless we find some way of dealing with this savings excess there can be no permanent solution to our present economic difficulties. 
Recently I have been in Europe and the United Kingdom and I have had some opportunity of observing economic developments there. The Treasurer is quite right when he observes that the course which he is following is the one prescribed for him by overseas financiers. In their own spheres, these monetary authorities are following that same course themselves, though I think it is fair to say that none of them is pursuing it with the same degree of sanctimonious ferocity which our Treasurer exhibits. 
Perhaps, then, I might be allowed to remark that it is no co-incidence that Europe and the United Kingdom are finding the same hesitancy in recovery as we are, though of course not to the same degree. For them, as for our own unhappy Treasurer, events have failed to follow the predicted course: Unemployment is growing; the trend of their economies is patchy, but it is still downward. 
There are some signs that the governments of these countries will see the error of their ways and reverse their present restrictive policies before it is too late. Influential United States economists- not, of course, the bigoted monetarists who have so much to answer for- are already urging these changes behind the scenes. If so, Europe will fare better than Australia; but if the present line, which our Treasurer is so pleased to copy, is maintained there, then a major recession is inevitable overseas. The first place to look for signs of real economic trouble would be West Germany, whose meteoric rise over three decades carries within it the seeds of a possible corresponding decline if the savings ratio is left uncorrected. 
Let me return to the Australian scene. There is no need to prove that the Treasurer's policies are misjudged, because it is evident that they are not working out as he predicted. It is not so easy to prove within a few minutes that they could never work out, though I am sure that a deeper analysis would lead to this conclusion. But what is the alternative? I do not myself believe that there is any single alternative. Any attempt to base recovery upon one initiative must fail. Instead it is necessary to follow a number of initiatives simultaneously, not relying upon a single one, but utilising each in moderation. Basically I suggest a seven-point plan: 
Issue indexed annuities for purchase up to a reasonable limit and also savings bonds, indexed both as to interest and principal, non-transferable and repayable only on the death of the purchaser. In this way the Commonwealth could obtain all the capital funds it needs without entering the professional market. The securities issued would never come on to the market and, by their purchase, present unused liquid funds in the hands of potential consumers would be reduced and the danger of flash inflation would be diminished. 
Once the Commonwealth has secured its capital funds outside the market it would be in a position to force interest rates downward, using its banking and other powers for this purpose. A substantial reduction in interest rates would do much to revive the flagging economy. 
With capital moneys available from the sale of indexed bonds and annuities the Commonwealth could eliminate the socalled 'deficit' by charging capital works against loan raisings, and would have some $2,000m a year available for a proper measure of tax reduction. 
From the same source, the Commonwealth and States would have the ability to finance a modest expansion in the capital works program, directed principally towards providing the infrastructure for productive industry. This would reduce unemployment, not only directly but also by stimulating the private industries engaged in material supply. 
Measures should be taken to correct our present deficit of $ 1,900m a year on current account overseas. The only feasible way of doing this is to make locally some of the things which we at present import, thus absorbing our present idle capacity of men and machines. Instead of debating whether or not we should take this necessary course, it would be better for us to be considering how best we can do it- that is, with the least effect upon our export markets and the least impact upon local prices. So far as export markets are concerned, this means directing our import trade preferentially towards those countries which take 'sensitive' exports from us, and cutting down our imports from those countries with whom we have a negative balance of 'invisibles'. So far as local prices are concerned, it will often happen that an increase in factory throughput will reduce unit cost. 
With the reduction in local interest rates some temporary action may be necessary to stem the outflow of capital funds overseas. The Commonwealth and the Reserve Bank already have the power to do this, and nothing more would be necessary than to overhaul the machinery and to see that it was in working order. 
While wages restraint is still desirable, no cut in real wages- which, of course, would reduce consumption- should be contemplated. Admittedly three years ago real wages were allowed to outrun productivity, but the imbalance should be corrected by productivity rises rather than by wages cuts. Margins should, however, be preserved and in some cases restored. The present margins between adult and junior wages, for example, are too narrow and this is responsible for much of the heavy junior unemployment. Plateau indexation has been a great mistake and its effects should be reviewed and in some cases reversed. 
The above plan-call it, if you will, the Wentworth plan- has been sketched in outline; obviously within the 20 minutes allowed to me in this debate it cannot be set down in detail. Nothing in it is novel, in the sense that all seven items have been advocated by me ever since the Fraser Government took office and I knew the inevitable economic consequences of the Treasurer's strategy. Some items in it have been adopted by various interests including, of course, the shadow Treasurer. But I do emphasise that I would consider them as a package- each of the seven to be pursued in moderation, and each fitting in to the others. 
As I have said, I cannot vote for this Budget, but I have, of course, no intention of voting with the Labor Party, even if it has copied some of the ideas which I put forward originally. The Government's economic policy may be wrong, but the Labor Party's general policy is so much more wrong. And so, to Treasurer and shadow Treasurer alike I say: 'A plague on both your houses'. 
Indeed one of the reasons why the Liberals should change their economic policy is that, unless they do, they run the very real risk of turning the Government and the country over to the Labor Party. This, I believe, would be a disaster, not just because of economic factors, but because the Labor Party is part of the totalitarian left. This, perhaps, is the main reason why I speak out now. We must change our course before it is too late. And that is true not only of us in Australia. If I am right- and I feel confident in my diagnosisthe same Australian economic disease is also the European economic disease, which takes in Europe the same course as it is taking here. 
If Australia does not change its course in time- if it succumbs to left wing totalitarianismthis could be, for us, an unmitigated disaster, but it would leave the world generally undisturbed. But if the disease is allowed to run its course in Europe, then the world would be changed, and changed dreadfully. If free men cannot run their own system, then the communists will take over the world. How many of us here would want that? 
-I am sure that Leslie Haylen, like Aristophanes, would like to be remembered for golden laughter beyond the grave, for he was a man of infinite jest. Well do I remember the incident related by the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron).  I well remember addressing a normally rapt House, with it hanging on every word, when suddenly for no reason that I could discern it dissolved into laughter. I did not know what was happening behind me. 
I suspect that is true. I have always taken the precaution of sitting right at the back of the chamber. Even if one does not know what is happening behind, at least one knows what is happening in front. I sometimes feel that honourable members on the other side of the chamber do not always know that. I remember Leslie, amongst other things, for an expression which is now old but which I think was new in his mouth. He always referred to the ceremonies which he had to attend in his own electorate as being 'fetes worse than death'. That is now an old phrase, but I think it was his, and it was new when he first used it There were many sides to his character which are not known by everyone. I remember, for example, the way in which he used to go camping down the Nattai Valley. He always loved to go into the bush for the weekends. 
I join very sincerely in what I think would be the appropriate tribute. Accompanying the laughter, there is the sadness that we feel m his passing, and I would like to join with other honourable members in giving all our sympathy to his family. 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That this House is of the opinion that in the awarding of major contracts for the computerisation of the Australian telephone system, due weight should be given to the maximisation of Australian content and to the activity generated for Australian industry. Furthermore, the House believes that before the finalisation of such major contracts the Minister should make a statement in this House setting out the Australian content in the main competing tenders. 

 - Mr Speaker, my question is directed to you. I refer to the magnificent tapestry picture, the recent gift from the delegates of the People's Republic of China to this Parliament. I ask you, Sir: If and when this picture is hung in the House, will you have put under it the appropriate inscription 'Timeo Danaos et dona ferentes', which means, 'I fear the Chicoms even when they bring gifts'? While a picture may not present the same physical opportunities for concealment as does a wooden horse, would it not be prudent, metaphorically speaking, to look behind the picture? Since apparently I am cast in the role of Laocoon in this matter, will you use your authority as  Speaker  - 
-It is reported in the  Sydney Morning Herald  that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  recently made a statement which said - 
Yes. 
-Yes. The Leader of the Opposition is reported as saying: 
Everyone in the Australian Parliament is now an ardent Sinophile. 
Everyone' includes me. I am, of course, a Sinophile in the sense that I am a friend of the Chinese people but I suspect that the Leader of the Opposition meant something else. Certainly his phrase could be misinterpreted in that way. I rebut the misrepresentation. I am, I hope, a friend of the Chinese people although I am not prepared as are some other members of this House to go crawling to the Chinese communists. 
Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I will not delay the House for long in speaking on this matter. In fact, I expect to speak for only a few minutes. Obviously it is a most important matter. The Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  has said in his statement that $700m worth of equipment at current prices is involved. I make no comment at all on the technical matters involved. I do not know whether the Ericsson (Australia) Pty Ltd system or the STC (Australia) Pty Ltd system is the better system, but what I believe the Government has considered and what I certainly would want to be considered is whether adequate attention has been paid to the nature of Australian employment in this regard. One is interested not only in what will happen in 1985 or at some other future date - 

 Mr WENTWORTH As I said, I do not wish to go into the technical matters at all. I am interested in the matter of Australian content. I am interested not only in what will happen in 1985 but also in the possible retention in Australia of the design skills in relation to this sort of equipment. When a team which has such design skills is built up, it is important that it be maintained. I am not trying to take sides with STC against Ericsson or with Ericsson against STC. All I am asking is that adequate consideration be given to this matter because the design teams are important. 
However, there is another matter to be considered: Already there has been enough trouble in Australia from the fragmentation of the motor industry. Are we to have, as a consequence of this decision, a fragmentation of the electronics industry in Australia? 
-That is precisely what I am doing. In awarding this contract it is important that we look at the future of the industry as a whole. I am not supporting STC (Australia) Pty Ltd against L. M. Ericsson (Australia) Pty Ltd or Ericsson against STC. I believe that the Government has considered these matters. I ask the Government to put before the House the way in which it has considered them. It is important for the future that we should avoid the fragmentation of the electronics industry in Australia in the same way as the motor industry has been fragmented by the operation of too many competing factors. In his statement the Minister mentioned the possibility of the SPC local switching equipment being made under licence by a second manufacturer. 
Will the honourable member for Lang be quiet for a moment? He is saying absolutely nothing and he knows it. 
I am not trying to attack or defend anybody in this regard. All I am asking is that the Government show that it has given due consideration to this matter. It would be very wrong if the future of the Australian electronics industry as a whole was jeopardised by undue fragmentation. Surely if honourable members opposite have any regard for Australia 's secondary industry and if they are not just trying to make cheap political points at its expense they will be silent and give me some support. All I am trying to do is get the maximum employment for Australian workmen and designers and see that the future of the Australian electronics industry is properly safeguarded. I am not saying that the Government has not already done this. I am not criticising the Government's decision. All I am asking is that the Government put before the House the reasons for this decision. We should be able to see in its proper perspective how this decision fits in to the long term objectives of maintaining the efficiency of Australia's secondary industry and maintaining the maximum employment in Australia of local workmen and designers. 
This is not an unreasonable thing to ask. I should have thought that in place of this kind of niggling objection the Opposition would have been on side with us. Opposition members should not try to make cheap political points. I am trying to do what they should be doing and see that as many Australians as possible are employed here now and in the future and that the structure of Australia's secondary industry is as efficient as possible. Is this something on which Opposition members want to take points of order? 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member for Lang will come to order. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, surely I should have the silence and co-operation of the House in this matter. I am not trying to criticise the Government. I am not saying that I know anything about the technology of this matter. I do not. But I know two things. First, in awarding this contract proper attention should be given to the Australian content now and in the near future. Secondly, we should be looking to the long term efficiency of Australian secondary industry. These are not the only things to be looked at but it is important that appropriate attention be paid to them. I believe that the Government has done this but I would like to hear a statement from the Government as to what it has done. Unfortunately, that is not included in the statement which the Minister has put before us today. 
-Very rightly we give to the States freedom to decide how they spend the money they receive from the Commonwealth Government. But that does not mean that we should have no concern where national interests are involved, From the past one can look at some of the ways in which these national interests have been treated. I think particularly of one matter that concerns the New South Wales Government, that is, its decision to abandon the central motorway systems of Sydney and to sell the land which has been purchased with the help of past Commonwealth funds. The Australian Labor Party plan is to dice the motorways and bring permanent strangulation to Sydney's city traffic. The New South Wales Government is going to stop the western motorway from the centre of Sydney to Concord; stop the southern motorway from the centre of Sydney to Alexandria, stop the north-west motorway at some dead end in Glebe and, as for the Warringah expressway, abandon it at Willoughby. This will mean, for example, permanent strangulation for the new port at Botany and for the airport traffic. The sale of the land is an act of vandalism, and the decision to re-zone is simply one of the decisions that is meant to hit motorists throughout Sydney. The Labor Party has the old-fashioned idea that nobody owns a motorcar unless he is a silver tail. Most people who own motorcars are not silver tails .at all. Most people are now fortunate enough to own a motorcar. 
I say these things because they relate particularly to the local government elections which are to be held in Sydney on Saturday. Some Labor candidates are standing for office at those elections. Those Labor candidates are bound by party decisions even though they may maintain the contrary. They may sincerely think that they can talk in favour of the traffic plans for Sydney. However, they are bound by the Labor decision to destroy permanently the Sydney city traffic and bring permanent strangulation to the city of Sydney. Every Labor Party candidate at the local government elections on Saturday is bound to support this plan. He may say otherwise in his election speech or he may think otherwise but he will very soon find he is not allowed to think otherwise. Whether he means what he says or not, every one of them will be a fifth column candidate for his own area. 
I am thinking particularly of the elections for the  city of  Sydney. It would be tragic if that council were to fall under the control of Labor aldermen who are endeavouring to strangle city traffic. I speak also of the elections for the ManlyWarringah area which is my own area. I know that there will be Labor candidates in the election for this area which is to be held on Saturday. I ask that every one of those Labor candidates should be placed last - 
No, sir. But it is of concern to this House in that this House has an interest in seeing that Sydney city traffic is not permanently strangled. That is a matter of national concern. It is the proper concern of this House. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I am referring to the decision of the State Labor Government to use moneys which have been provided under this legislation to purchase land. The State Government has now decided to sell that land. I regard this as an abuse of the moneys that have been provided by this Parliament. I regard this as completely germane to the legislation that is before us at the moment. 
I do not want to put too much emphasis on the local government elections. But I do say that Labor candidates are concerned with the continuance and the further perpetration of this crime against Sydney. In my area in particular every Labor candidate is dedicated to the strangulation of traffic between ManlyWaningah and the city. Every car owner when he casts his vote on Saturday might well remember that and vote solidly against the Labor candidates. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 18 April 1977: 
What elections have been held in trade unions registered under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act since 31 December 1975. 
How many persons were entitled to vote at each of those elections. 
How many votes were recorded at each of those elections. 
I am sorry to disappoint the House, but I want to discuss the operations of Standing Order 107. At some later stage I might move a motion to have the matter referred to the Standing Orders Committee, but I do not intend to do that tonight. Instead I want to bring the matter to the attention of the House. Standing Order 107 provides that a matter of public importance may be discussed in the House but only if eight members rise to support it. This is aimed at preventing trivial matters from being raised and at preventing being raised matters which do not have the interest of the House, because the time of the House is, I think, valuable. This standing order has, I think, in effect been abused in the pastone can see this- because the House has not been interested in the matters brought forward. That is shown very clearly by the lack of attendance in the House on the part of the party that brings forward the matter. 
Let me instance what happened today. The honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  brought forward a matter of public importance. Before he had been speaking for one-third of his time he had only four listeners on his side of the House. Throughout the rest of his speech the attendance on his side was never greater than four. The following  speaker  on his side was the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam),  who started below par with only one listener on his side. That was the honourable member for Gellibrand, who had raised the matter and who had to be there. The honourable member for Grayndler did acquire two other members in the course of his speech. One of them was his father who, naturally, out of paternal piety came in to hear what the young man was saying. 
I will not comment on that. It would be ungracious of me to do so. But I do point out that the honourable member for Grayndler had at the most an audience of four throughout the whole of his speech and the honourable member sits on the side of the House that had brought the matter forward as being a matter of public importance. Yet it had no interest for them because although they stood up when you,  Mr Speaker,  called the matter on they were not able to tolerate staying in the House to hear their own speakers. 
It is quite obvious therefore that this procedure is being abused in the House. Matters are being brought forward as matters of public importance and the very party that brings them forward cannot muster more than three or four to hear its own speakers on the matter and this, I would say, is in effect an abuse of the processes of the House. It might be said that you  Mr Speaker,  have been unwise in selecting the matters which is of greater public importance, but no one can accuse you of that today because there was only one matter brought forward. So obviously this morning at any rate no blame could possibly be attached to the Chair in judging what was the matter of greater public importance. 
I do not suggest that the rather disgraceful affair today was in any way peculiar because the same thing has happened time and dme again. Today I took the trouble to stay in the House to hear all the speeches of the Opposition on this matter which it had brought forward and I am able therefore to say with exactness the number of people on the opposite side who were in the House to listen to the matter which Opposition supporters had indicated was a matter of the greatest public importance. It is obvious that some means must be found to end this charade. It is not, as I have said, something that you,  Mr Speaker,  can do under the existing Standing Orders because they give you no powers to do so, but I do suggest that in the future some kind of amendment be made to the Standing Orders. I have not framed an amendment but I suggest that if at least one third of the party supporting the member initiating the debate is not in the House to hear him and his supporters speak, you should terminate the debate. Futhermore I feel that when you do this,  Mr Speaker,  you should show your censure of the person who has brought forward a matter of public importance which does not attract the interest of his own party by ensuring that that member does not get the call on such a matter for a long time thereafter. I do not want to take up the time of the House - 
-I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the moving of a motion to allow for the incorporation in  Hansard  of the statement of  Mr Fischer  referred to by the honourable member for Bendigo in his recent speech. 

 Sir, you may remember that in the course of the debate on the matter of public importance the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier)  asked for leave to incorporate in  Hansard  the statement by  Mr Fischer.  Leave was refused by members of the Opposition. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I move - 
On a point of order - 
I move: 
That the statement by  Mr Fischer  which has been referred to by the - 
Debate interrupted. 
-I move: 
That the statement made by  Mr Fischer  and referred to by the honourable member for Bendigo in his recent speech be incorporated in  Hansard. 
All imputations of improper motives and all personal reflections on members shall be considered highly disorderly. 
I ask you to rule that until you have seen the document, which it is proposed to incorporate in  Hansard  and which, incidentally, we have not seen, and until you are able yourself to determine whether or not Standing Order 76 is being complied with in this case, the motion should be adjourned. 
I have so moved. 

 The document having been handed to the honourable member for Bendigo- 

That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the moving of a motion to allow for the incorporation in  Hansard  of the statement of  Mr Fischer  referred to by the honourable member for Bendigo in his recent speech. 
They are the terms of the motion. The House has voted on the motion to suspend Standing Orders. The  Speaker  necessarily is in the hands of the House on the motion that it has carried. 

 -Mr Speaker, earlier today the House carried a resolution that a certain document- 

 Opposition members interjecting- 

Earlier today the House carried a resolution that a document be incorporated in  Hansard  and the Principal Parliamentary Reporter - 

 Opposition members interjecting - 

I repeat that earlier today the House carried a resolution that a certain document be incorporated in  Hansard - 
-The House carried a resolution that a certain document be incorporated in  Hansard. 
-Thank you,  Mr Speaker. 

 -Mr Speaker, the Principal Parliamentary Reporter informed you that certain portions of the document were illegible or ambiguous. There is some difficulty about deciphering parts of the document. 
It has therefore been laid on the table of the House. 
-A copy of the document has been laid on the table of the House so honourable members can see it for themselves. As I read it, they will be able to - 
-Mr SpeakerMr Lionel Bowen- I take a further point of order,  Mr Speaker.  You have just said that you have not heard the document read. You earlier said that you had read the document. That is the same document. You would be well aware of its contents. Accordingly you would know from the contents of the document that it is very malicious, that it defames certain people and that it could destroy them in public life or private life. The Parliament is now being used as a plaything - 
The copy on the table is a typed script annotated in the hand of  Mr Fischer  who is the author of the document. I now read the document which states: 
I, Henry John Fischer, aged 38 of Sydney - 
I read from the document: 
I am Henry John Fischer - 
It reads: 
I am Henry John Fischer, aged 38 of Sydney. I am managing director of the Scarf Foundation. I am a businessman who has done business in the Middle East for many years. The Foundation is concerned with agricultural projects in Arbil and Telefar in the Republic of Iraq. The Foundation is also negotiating business in Damascus, Lebanon, Arab Emirates, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia and Libya. 
It continues: 
We participated in the 1975 Baghdad International Trade Fair- 
Shortland is taking a point of order. 
-The document continues: 
We participated in the 1975 Baghdad International Trade Fair and introduced 40 major Australian companies to the fair with the purpose of developing trade in the area. 
As a result of this, I spend most of my time in Middle Eastern countries. I was resident in Beirut until the Civil War there made it impossible to operate from Beirut. 
The trade activities were actively encouraged by the Australian Government of the day and were well known to the Prime Minister, the Minister of Trade and the Treasury and various other Ministers as well as the Trade Department officials and the ambassadorial staff of the Australian embassies of the areas concerned. 
We therefore knew  Mr Whitlam  very well and we kept him informed of our projects and prospects and so forth. 
During the elections I received a phone call from  Mr Reuben  Scarf,  Chairman  of the Scarf organisation, who informed me that  Mr Whitlam  wanted to meet him regarding funds and possible help from friendly sources to help in the elections. 
I then replied to Reuben: 'Well, you know him better than I do. Why don't you contact him?'  Mr Scarf  said: 'It seemed a little more involved than that. I don't want to see  Mr Whitlam.  You see him'. 

 Mr Scarf talked from the home of Mick Malouf, where he was spending the afternoon. 
During that afternoon  Mr Bill  Hartley arrived at my home in Blues Point Tower and said he wanted to talk to me about a very important matter, and it was better to go in the park and talk rather than to stay in the apartment, because of CIA bugging these days. 
We walked near the harbour park outside the building. 
He then expressed disappointment that  Mr Scarf  would not meet  Mr Whitlam  and thought it was somewhat of an affront. 
I then mentioned to  Mr Hartley  that  Mr Scarf  would definitely not meet  Mr Whitlam  as he had talked to him on the phone and had asked me to see  Mr Whitlam  in his stead. 

 Mr Hartley then left, apparently to talk to  Mr Whitlam. 

 Mr Hartley said it was very important, as the CIA was pouring millions into Australia, and the Labor Party had no money and therefore would welcome assistance from friendly countries like the Arab world. He said the party needed $2m. 

 Mr Hanley said: 'Of course, it would be difficult to get money from Saudi Arabia but we could get money from Kuwait, Libya and Iraq. 
He would write to Yasser Arafat to get his endorsement so that funds can be quickly provided by the Arab leaders and time would not be wasted in order to quickly bring funds to help in the campaign. 
-Mr Hartley continued: 'I will go and see  Mr Whitlam  now and will not tell him that Reuben refused to see him' . . . 
-Thank you,  Mr Speaker. Mr Hartley  continued: 
I will go and see  Mr Whitlam  now - 
-Mr Hartley continued: 
I will go and see  Mr Whitlam  now and I will not tell him that Reuben refused to see him and will tell him that it will get better results if he sees you for security reasons since Reuben's home is so well known in Vaucluse. You will hear from David Combe. I proceeded home and waited for the telephone call. I then told  Mr Scarf  on the phone what had transpired and  Mr Scarf  said: 'Well, I don't like the sound of it. These people have wrecked the economy and I am not so sure I want them to go for another time. Anyway, what are we getting out of it?' I replied that  Mr Hartley  had said that the Labor Party was the 'only' Party pledged to the policy of even handedness and therefore should be supported by all the loyal Arabs in Australia. 

 Mr Scarf said: 'Well, as long as we don 't have to pay for it it may not be a bad deal because they could well come back again and we have to live with them.'  Mr Combe  phoned and advised me that  Mr Whitlam  would be coming to supper at S o'clock at my apartment in Blue Point Tower. It was the first Sunday after his dismissal by the Governor-General.  Mr Whitlam  came in with David Combe. He then said that the Labor Party was short of at least $ 1 m and because of a - 

 - Mr Speaker, it might assist you if I mentioned to you that the matters of which I am speaking are of the highest national importance. They relate to the most serious political charges that have ever been made against a political leader in this country. I am speaking now of political matters; I am not speaking of anything that is happening in the courts. These matters relate to political charges, and not charges made in the courts. They are the most serious political charges that have ever been levelled against a responsible leader in the history of Australia. They amount to political charges that that leader was prepared to sell out the foreign policy of his country. 
He was prepared to sell out the foreign policy of his country for a million dollars of party funds. These are national matters. 
These are national matters and they deserve- 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-I give notice that at the next sitting I shall move: 
1 ) That a select committee be appointed to examine and report upon: 
the methods of election of office bearers of trade unions registered or recognised under any law of the Commonwealth, and 
b ) the operation of these methods of election during the last five years, with particular but not exclusive reference to- 
the fairness and integrity of any ballot, 
the numbers of eligible voters taking part in any ballot, and 
related matters. 
That the committee consist of seven members, three to be nominated by the Prime Minister, three to be nominated by the Leader of the Opposition, and the mover Provided that, if within two weeks of the passing of this resolution, the Leader of the Opposition has not nominated members or has nominated less than three members, the Prime Minister may make nominations to fill any remaining vacancy or vacancies. 
That, after two weeks from the passing of this resolution, the persons nominated for the time being to serve on the committee shall constitute the committee, notwithstanding any failure to nominate the full number of members. 
That every nomination of a member of the committee be forthwith notified in writing to the  Speaker. 
That four members of the committee shall constitute a quorum of the committee. 
That, in any voting in the committee, the  Chairman  shall have a deliberative vote and, in the event of an equality of voting, a casting vote. 
That the committee have power to send for persons, papers and records, to move from place to place, adjourn from time to time and to sit during any sittings or adjournment of the House. 
That the committee have power to authorise the publication of any evidence given before it and any document presented to it. 
That the committee be provided with necessary staff, facilities and resources. 
Mr Keating I rise to a point of order. Two days ago I submitted to the  Clerk  a General Business notice which he submitted to you for your perusal. I was given to understand that it was too &gt;ng and I was not able to read it in that form. Yet you are permitting the honourable member for Mackellar to read a longer notice today. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
There are some things on which I would agree with the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  and some on which I would disagree. I hope that I will make that clear as I proceed. The Bill in front of us is to authorise the borrowing for defence purposes. As such it is not amenable to the Loan Council and stands outside the Loan Council framework. Nominally at any rate this borrowing will be part of the moneys necessary to cover the $2.2 billion deficit' which the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  brought forward in his Budget. Whether there will be any reversal of that in the future, we do not know. Nominally this is what it is for. Even apart from any defence component there are capital works and capital advances to the States included in the Treasurer's figure of $2.2 billion which he calls the deficit and which I think is more properly referred to as the public sector borrowing requirement 
These capital works will be of the order of $3.5 billion to $4 billion. In other words, if one goes to normal accounting one sees that the Budget shows a surplus of about $2 billion which is wholly directed towards financing some part of the capital works- the rest of the capital works are to be financed by borrowing, of which this Bill before us for $1.1 billion might well form a part. 
As I have said, I am not clear as to the details of the capital works included in the present Budget. Last year the capital works included were set by the Treasurer at $3,869m. He was good enough to give me a breakdown of that figure for last year and I seek leave to have it included in  Hansard. 
I ask the Acting Treasurer. Is a meeting with the State Premiers contemplated in the near future in order to discuss the possibility of reducing the interest rate on Commonwealth loans? In connection with this subject, has the Acting Treasurer considered the matters brought forward in the notice of motion which was given by me on 9 March last and which sets out a mechanism for raising money and, at the same time, reducing interest rates? Does the Acting Treasurer recall that I suggested that by the - 
-Mr Acting  Speaker,  I bow to your superior knowledge of the Standing Orders. Will the Acting Treasurer answer my question? 
-Mr Acting  Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I move: 
In sub-clause ( 1) (b), after 'persons' add- 'and, where appropriate and subject to the concurrence of the Minister, to arrange for the publication of such reports or assessments. ' 
I think this matter is vital in this context. It is important that some things be public although nobody suggests that everything should be public. The information collected is not to be clandestine so that the matter of secrecy does not arise and the Minister, if he thinks that something should not be public, should have a right to stop it being public. 
But I want to point out what is happening. Our enemies, particularly our communist enemies, are moving in the domain of public opinion. It is no good having namby pamby reports put out to Ministers that do not reach the public because all over the world the communists are taking our people away from us gradually by means of propaganda and our Department of Foreign Affairs will not oppose it. 
The Department will not even let us know what is happening in Russia. Time and time again I have asked Ministers to give us factual reports of what is happening in Russia and have been told that this would not be done because it would offend the Soviet authorities. This is absolutely ridiculous. It is in the domain of public opinion that the damage is being done. This snide propaganda war is going on all the time and we do not retaliate because we have no access to the Soviet people. We cannot tell the Soviet people what is happening here, and the Soviet Union continues to tell uslies. The Soviet is lying continuously about conditions in its own country behind the Iron Curtain. We hear all this nonsense about their adopting freedoms and so on and we are falling for it. Here in Australia and in England and America- in fact all over the world- we are falling for this nonsense. 
We need publication of the facts. We are talking about a proposal to set up a 'think tank', if you like to call it that. We are discussing the setting up of an apparatus which is eminently suitable for letting our people know the real facts and to correct at least to some extent the continuous dereliction of duty on the part of the Department of Foreign Affairs, under Labor and Liberal-Country Party governments alike, in trying to cover up the sins of the Soviet and to allow the Soviet to mislead our people by a campaign of lies 
I recall the 1930s in the days of Intourist. Everybody was going to Russia and upon their return they were saying how lovely everything was there. That was the time of the Stalinist purges and the murder of millions. All that was going on and it was all covered up. We are covering up now and it is damn well time that this stopped. It is time that the Government got off its tail and did something about it. Unfortunately I have to say that this Government as well as past governments has been sitting on its tail in this regard. For heavens sake, stop it. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 6. 
The National Assessments Board shall include- 
an officer of the Department of Foreign Affairs; 
an officer of the Department of Defence; 
a member of the Defence Force; and 
an an officer of the Australian Public Service, not being an officer of the Department of Foreign Affairs or the Department of Defence, who has expertise in economics. 
-I ask for leave to make a statement. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 2 1 September 1977: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to allegations that the Soviet Union, while it pretends support of international detente, nevertheless indoctrinates its own citizens with concerted falsehoods about conditions in the Free World, with the object of raising up unwarranted hatred and contempt. 
If so, and as one means of testing the truth of these allegations, will he instruct his representatives in Moscow to obtain a complete set of text books used in Soviet primary schools, and will he make such texts available for critical study in Australia. 
-I want to direct my remarks to the Industries Assistance Commission, which is covered by the estimates before us now. I believe that there are serious intellectual deficiencies in the presentation of its last annual report and I am sorry that it has been commended by the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam)  who I believe in this case is enunciating a quite fallacious policy which the Australian Labor Party has adopted and which I think is inimical to the interests of Australia. It is noteworthy when looking at the annual report of the Industries Assistance Commission that not one reference is made to the difficulties which are occurring by reason of the adverse balance on current account of the Australian economy overseas. This is a most crucial matter which deserves the full attention of the Government. 
As honourable members will know, our accounts overseas consist of a number of items. The exports are credited- we receive money for them- and the imports are debited. We pay money for our imports. In addition there is a large amount for what is known as 'invisibles' which are both debits and credits for things like freight, remittances, interest and profits earned by overseas companies, travel and all those kinds of things. I want the Committee to look at the position which has arisen. Last financial year the debit on current account was $ 1,900m and that had to be made good either by foreign investment or by government borrowing. This year, unless corrective action is taken, the debit on current account will exceed $3,000m. Some of this has already been made good by the borrowing by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  of $2,000m overseas but not only has that borrowing to be repaid but in addition the interest on it has to be paid. That interest will add to the debit on current account for succeeding years. In other words, I do not think that we can go on as we are going. I seek leave to have included in  Hansard  a small table which shows the 'visibles' and 'invisibles' in the last four or five years. I have already received permission to do so from the Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee)  who is at the table and from the Opposition. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Is leave granted for the inclusion of the table? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The table read as follows- 

Honourable members will see that whilst the visibles fluctuate the invisibles have risen fairly regularly as the interest on foreign borrowing and the profits on new private investment from abroad add to our overseas obligations. There is thus a feedback effect as the negative balance on current account spirals upwards. This is a matter which deserves the utmost attention from the Industries Assistance Commission because it underlies any approach to the problems with which it is dealing. I believe that to try to ignore it is incomprehensible and I cannot understand how this can have been done by the Industries Assistance Commission. I will say the the members of the Industries Assistance Commission have been guilty of a serious dereliction of duty in failing to draw attention to this because, by reason of it, the recommendations that the Commission has put forward make long term nonsense. 
Let me look over the short term and the long term. Over the short term or the medium term, for the next four or five years, there is not any possibility of our making good the deficit by an increase of exports, for the very good reason that there is no market overseas for an increase in exports. Does the Industries Assistance Commission want us to export more beef? We are finding it difficult to sell our beef now. Does it want us to increase our exports of sugar? We have just cut back our sugar production by 15 per cent, by an agreement signed only a few days ago. Does it want us to export more metals, such as copper? There is a glut on the world market at the moment but perhaps we can do so later. Lead and zinc are subject to quotas. We cannot sell any more iron over the short term, and over the long term there is no chance of finding any new export which can go anywhere near meeting this gap- 
This is something which, to its shame, the Industries Assistance Commission has blithely disregarded and, by blithely disregarding it, it has set Australia on a disaster course. If those men have looked at the figures and have not put them forward, it is a matter of shame to them and a matter showing intellectual incompetence. This is a charge which stands on the figures and which I make without reservation. The Industries Assistance Commission should be well and truly ashamed of the intellectual inadequacies in the report which is brought before us for this coming year. I am sorry that with filial piety the honourable member for Grayndler has followed his father, the Leader of the Opposition, the honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr E. G. Whitlam),  who is responsible in large part for the adultation which is being paid to the Industries Assistance Commission and its inadequate treatment of this whole situation. 
I have spoken about the short term or the medium term- the next four or five years- but I also want to say something of the long term because over the long term the recommendations of the Industries Assistance Commission will mean disaster for Australia if they are implemented. It is of no good thinking that, for those mass produced items which can be easily transported, we can compete on our home market with foreign industries where the wage is perhaps a quarter or a fifth of our wage. It cannot be done, however efficient our industries become. Until fairly recently there was some kind of remedy because in these mass producing industries superior skill did mean something, but progressively it has meant less because companies, not only Australian companies, have learned the trick of going offshore, of using a core of skilled workers and mobilising the unskilled workers, with 95 per cent of their work force on low wages. We cannot compete and the home market must be protected. Over the short term, like it or not, there has to be a considerable substantial diminution of our imports because we cannot afford either to pay for our imports or to pay the additional invisibles which will be charged against us for interest and profits if we try to correct our foreign balance on current account by bringing in foreign capital or by borrowing overseas. I do not critise the present borrowing; I do criticise the failure to correct the situation which made that borrowing necessary. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Dr Jenkins)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 4 October 1977: 
With reference to the attachment to his letter to me of 7 April 1977, in which he gave details of the capital works included on the 1976-77 Budget Estimates totalling $3, 869m, will he supply similar details of the capital works included in the 1977-78 Budget Estimates. 
-I give notice that, on the next day of sitting, I shall move: 
That in the opinion of this House the Australian people have a right to know more about the underhand methods by which communist agitators manipulate trade unions with the object of disrupting the Australian economy; 
That in the opinion of this House a parliamentary select committee should be set up forthwith to investigate these matters and make them public, and to report upon the organisation, membership and associations of the various communist parties operating in Australia; 
That, since it is likely that this House will be dissolved before such a committee could complete its work, this House now requests the Senate, which preserves continuity despite any election, to set up a select committee with full powers to investigate these matters effectively and, without prejudice to their generality, to report upon: 
Whether communist textbooks prescribe that members should resort to trickery and deceit within trade unions and should use the pretence of industrial issues to achieve communist purposes; 
The extent to which the success of communist tactics in trade unions depends upon concealment of the identity of key communist operatives, organisations and associations; and 
Means of combating communist operations in trade unions. 

 -Mr Speaker, I ask your leave to make a personal explanation, having been misrepresented. 

 -The Canberra Times of last Saturday referring to my criticisms of the operations of the Industries Assistance Commission stated: 
.  Mr Fraser  . . . gained a most unexpected ally, in the form of  Mr William  Wentworth - 
This implies that what I said then was unexpected and it was new. That is entirely wrong. Anybody who will do me the honour of looking through the  Hansard  and seeing what I have said over 20 years on this matter will find that I am the most concerned and consistent opponent of the views which are being put forward in this matter by the Industries Assistance Commission and which I criticised in the speech referred to in the article. The article goes on: 
Can anyone persuade  Mr Wentworth  that smoked salmon and scotch whisky are not the only things imported? 
This implies that I have not looked at the schedule of imports. As it happens over the last three or four weeks I have been concerned in making a detailed analysis of the schedule of Australian imports in the last two or three years. I think I can say that I am probably the only member of the House who has taken the trouble to really look at these things in detail. Finally, the article states:  the IAC had better begin praying that  Mr Wentworth  does not get a good place on the NSW Senate ticket 
It will have to do more than pray, I think. 
I think the Committee must take notice of what was said earlier today by the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  - 
Motion (by  Mr Macphee)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
Progress reported. 
-I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would preclude- 
The honourable member for Mackellar laying forthwith on the table of the House a more legible copy of the document already tabled by the Leader of the House on 21 September 1977 as recorded on page 1 4 1 8 of the daily  Hansard; 
The honourable member for Mackellar moving forthwith that both the original and the more legible copy be printed: and 
The Leader of the Opposition speaking at a subsequent time of his own choosing for a period not exceeding one hour in relation to the matters referred to in the said document. 

 Mr Speaker, in moving this motion, I draw attention to the most serious matter which is standing in front of this country because an election is pending. In so doing I want to say that the Leader of the Opposition has not given any credible explanation of the events which are recorded in the Press - 

 -Mr Speaker, I seek leave of the House to make a statement. 

 -Mr Speaker, I seek leave of the House to make a statement on the same subject. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, while not opposing this third reading - 
Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker - 
Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
-I do not want to detain the Committee for long on this small matter but we have before us the capital works for the Joint House Department. I would like to ask the Minister whether he would be good enough to inform me what are these capital works. 
Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  proposed: 
That the question be now put 
No. The Noes have it. 
I think all members would be sympathetic - 
Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  proposed: 
That the question be now put. 
-No. Is there only one voice? 
-This Bill refers to capital works in the Budget. The capital works program in the Budget is said in this Bill to amount to only $ 1,329m, but actually the capital works program in the Budget  is  an amount much greater than that. I refer the House to an answer to a question on 18 October by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch).  At page 2127 of  Hansard  the Treasurer said that the capital works program in this Budget amounted to $3,598m. Since the so-called deficit is only $2,2 17m, this means, in effect, that there is a surplus in the Budget, not a deficit. There is a surplus of $ 1 ,38 1 m. It is perfectly true that there still remains the necessity to finance a little over $3,500m worth of capital works. Because one has changed the accounting, one does not in any way change the necessity to find that finance. I am not arguing that for the moment. What I am arguing is that there is in this Budget not a deficit but a real surplus. That surplus should have made it possible, indeed should have made it desirable, for the Government to approach the financial problems in quite a different fashion. It seems to me that there would be no difficulty in raising this money without any increase in interest rates. The Treasurer has already raised over $2,000m of it overseas without any augmentation of Australian interest rates at all. He has already raised overseas almost the whole of what he describes as his deficit. He has said - 
I am speaking precisely to the Bill. 
I am not outside the terms of the third reading motion at all. I am saying this: We are talking about the ways in which finance for capital works should be raised and Appropriation Bill (No. 2) does in point of fact deal with the raising of money for financing capital works. This is what it is all about. I am pointing out to the House that already the Treasurer has borrowed overseas enough virtually to cover the whole of what he calls his deficit but not enough as yet to cover the whole of the capital works proposed expenditure set out in the schedule which the Treasurer has told me in his answer on 18 October is $3,598m. The Treasurer also has said that he will find no difficulty in raising, if he wants to, further sums overseas. Let us look at our capital works in this form. I am wondering whether it would not be better to extend a little the schedule of our capital works in order to cut down the unemployment and particularly youth unemployment which is having such a corrosive effect in our community. I do not advocate any extravagant expansion. I do advocate a little prudent growth in this matter and I believe that this Appropriation Bill (No. 2) which deals with this matter does not to a proper extent take account of the economic circumstances of the country. 
I believe these things so strongly that I have been motivated after some 28 years as a member of Parliament to leave the Liberal Party. Although I think that Party is in so many ways the better party it is necessary for its economic policy to be changed. I am hoping that when I am elected to the Senate it will be a signal to the Government that the country does want a change of economic policy even though it does not want a change of government. I also am hoping that when I get into the Senate I will be able to see and monitor that this change goes through because it is necessary for the health of the Australian people and indeed for the continuance and maintenance of the anti-socialist and anticommunist cause that there should be a change of policy of this character. 
Let me just go to a much more fundamental point economically, if I may. What is happening m this country and in the developed countries overseas is that the personal savings which people make are going rancid because they are unused. It is therefore highly imprudent to tax people in order to finance capital works. This is the height of financial imprudence because virtually it guarantees the continuance of unemployment. What we should be doing is reducing taxes. We should be using some of our real surplus to reduce taxes and we should be financing at least the whole of our capital works by loan funds. People are making savings and because they are making them they withdraw consumer f ower. The Treasurer and the Prime Minister  Mr Malcolm  Fraser) very rightly are asking consumers to spend more but by taxing them to pay for capital works and reducing savings they are virtually guaranteeing over the long term, whatever may be the short term result, the failure of their own financial policy. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
I will not detain the House for more than one minute. I had not meant to intervene but, having heard the remarks of the honourable member for Kingsford -Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  which were a thinly disguised advocacy of republicanism, I must say that nobody who believes in the authority of the Queen will ever be able to vote for the Australian Labor Party. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 

 -Mr Speaker, I refer to the petition I presented concerning allegations against the Leader of the Opposition, and I move: 
That the petition lodged by the honourable member for Mackellar relating to the notice of motion given by him on 6 May 1976 be printed. 
In doing so I draw the attention of the House to the serious nature of the matters concerned and the great importance- 
-I give notice: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would preclude the Leader of the Opposition speaking in this House, at a time of his own choosing, for a period not exceeding 30 minutes in order to explain (a) apparent discrepancies between his own protestations and the account given at a Press briefing by  Mr Hawke  in relation to alleged negotiations between certain Irakis and the Australian Labor Party for the receipt of election moneys by that party and (b) matters relating to the foregoing. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to raise a point of order arising from the  Votes and Proceedings No. 56  of the House of last Thursday. The matter concerned is trivial in itself but the precedent it establishes is not trivial. It relates to the motion for the suspension of Standing Orders. You will be familiar with the fact that Standing Order 399 is very specific. The Standing Orders are for the protection of all members of this House and it is important that they be followed. Standing Order 399 states: 
In cases of necessity, any standing or sessional order or orders of the House may be suspended, on motion, duly moved and seconded, without notice: Provided that such motion is carried by an absolute majority of Members having full voting rights. 
It is very important that these formalities be observed.  Mr Speaker,  I draw your attention to page 374 of the  Votes and Proceedings  publication. You will see that the motion for the suspension of Standing Orders was not seconded. This, perhaps, is a matter of form but it is a matter of very considerable consequence. To allow the integrity of this vital Standing Order to be impeached by precedent would be negligent. Furthermore, if you look at the  Votes and Proceedings  and also at page 2557 of  Hansard,  of last Thursday you will see that the motion was not carried in the proper way by an absolute majority. It was said that it could be done by leave because there was only one voice in opposition. If this be so and if this be a precedent, things can be done by leave of the House and members' rights can be taken away by a small minority who may be in the House at the time.  Mr Speaker,  you will know that very often there are only half a dozen people in the House. This precedent must not be allowed to stand. It is no use saying that at the subsequent division the requisite number of members were in the House. What happened in the subsequent division is not necessarily evidence. In a matter like this the  forms  of the House should be most scrupulously complied with. I ask you not, perhaps, to rule on this matter immediately because I know you would like to consider it, look at the documents and perhaps speak to the  Clerk  in regard to it, but to make it clear, in the interests of all members of this House that, when Standing Orders are suspended, the proper forms must be complied with. It is our protection and you are the guardian of our rights. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, there has been - 
Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 - 'Senator Wentworth' is what you had in mind,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  Let me say in regard to this Bill that there is one matter which the Australian Labor Party has brought forward and with which I find myself in entire agreement. I feel that some of the Labor Party amendments are not in the best interests of the country, but there is one thing in which it - 
Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Ian Robinson)-  Is it the wish of the Committee to take the Bill as a whole? 
No. I have an amendment to insert a new clause after clause 16. 

That the debate be now adjourned. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- We are in Committee. Progress would have to be reported to do that. 
The  DEPUTY  CHAIRMAN-The honourable member for Mackellar can move his amendment. 
I want to speak to a new clause which I propose to move be inserted after clause 16. What has happened is that the Government - 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- May I just make a technical point? We will be taking the Bill as a whole and accepting the amendment for consideration. 
The Bill. 
-Thank you,  Mr Deputy Chairman.  That will be suitable to me. I put it to the Committee that the Labor Party has been right in criticising the Government for its failure to index family allowances, but I think it has been wrong in attributing to the Government a hardness of heart on this aspect. I do not believe that the Government could have failed to do this except by mistake. I believe that when this matter is put before the chamber in a specific way the Government will change its mind. Unless it changes its mind it will be convicted of the most appalling hypocrisy. I believe that the Labor Party has been quite wrong. I do not think that the Government has realised what it has done. I do not believe that people who realise what they are doing could act as the Government has acted in this matter. 
Let me put the thing firmly on the line. In 1 976 the Government said that it would change the method of income tax rebates and family allowances so as to help the people in the community who were worse off. This is what it said. It is very commendable. I am sure it meant this. Yet now, while nearly everything else in the Income Tax Assessment Act is being indexed, the family allowances are not. I do not think the Government could have done this deliberately. I do not believe that it could be so hypocritical as to do this. I believe that it was done simply by an oversight. When it is put squarely on the line with an amendment, as it will be in a moment, I believe that the Government will have the decency to accept the amendment and reverse what has been done, I am sure, just by oversight. It could not have been done deliberately. The Government is not as hard hearted and as full of duplicity as that. In a moment I shall put forward an amendment to the Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1977 which puts the position where I believe it should be and where I think the Government would have it if it realised what was decent, right and proper. 
My friend says that the Government has been tricked by the Treasury bureaucrats. He may well be right. I do not believe that the Treasurer always understands what he is doing. He is far too much in the hands of his advisers. Incidentally, let me discomfit my friend the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  at this moment. They are the same advisers who tricked the Labor Party when it was in office. He was one of the Ministers who was similarly deceived and misled by the same people. 
I suggest that we should reinstate the allowance for children at a figure which would compensate for the change in price levels which have affected the real values of family allowances. I do not think that this is the most satisfactory solution but it is the only solution available to a private member in this chamber. If the Government would bring forward a more acceptable solution we could take it, but it is not possible for a private member in this chamber to initiate matters on that level. In a moment I shall move an amendment. It will be an acid test of two things. Firstly, it will be an acid test of the sincerity of the Government. Does it believe the things it has said? Does it have real consideration for people at the bottom of the income scale? Does it believe in fairness and decency? I still believe that the Government will be sufficiently decent to accept the amendment. It will be an acid test of the sincerity of the Government. If it takes points of order and does something which is not usually done on an Income Tax Assessment Bill it will stand convicted. If the Labor Party will not stand by me on a motion to amend Standing Orders it will also be convicted of insincerity. Let us see whether there is some kind of conspiracy between the two main parties to do injustice and to try to exploit, for political purposes, those people who are perhaps least fortunate in our community. We shall now see where the truth lies in the chamber both in regard to the Government and in regard to the Opposition. I move: 
After clause 1 6, insert the following new clause: ' 1 6a. Section 1 59j of the Principal Act is amended- 
by omitting from sub-section (1A) "class 3 or"; 
by omitting from column 2 of the table in sub-section (2) ' (not being a student) '; and 
by omitting from column 3 of the table in sub-section 2: ' In respect of 1 such child-$226 
In respect of each other such child -$ 1 70 ' and substituting:  'In respect of each such child-$50'.". 
The effect of this amendment will be that there will be restored, in addition to the family allowance, an income tax rebate in respect of children. That income tax rebate, at $50, is just about the amount that family allowances have been short changed by the rise in prices and the failure to adjust them. This is the one thing which more than anything else requires adjustment. This House, to its shame, for a long time has forgotten the real interests of the family man. It is no wonder that we have moral trouble throughout the community and it is no wonder that our birthrate is falling and so on. For years now this House has condemned, by its financial operations, the sanctity and integrity of the Australian family. Now the Government has a chance to change this situation. Now, gentlemen, you have a chance to change it. I suggest that this amendment should be carried if there is any decency at all in this Government. Alternatively I would regard this as a better course of action- the Government here and now should say that before the Parliament rises for the election, family allowances should be adjusted in line with the change in prices. Let us have one thing or the other. Let us see whether the Labor Party is sincere. If it is, it will support my amendment. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Ian Robinson)-  The amendment is in order. 
What piffle! This is complete hypocrisy on the part of the Opposition. Honourable members opposite are now shown up for what they are. There are no friends of the family on either side of this House and it is time people realised it. 
Motion (by  Mr Bouchier)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put 
Amendment negatived. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
I think I should make a protest about the way in which legislation is being rushed through this House without debate. 

 -Mr Deputy Chairman, I do not think it is right - 
Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I think it is very bad - 
Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  proposed: 
That the question be now put: 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I rise to take a point of order. It is not right that these Bills should be put through without them being considered in Committee. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I simply wish  to  ask the plain question: Does anybody in this House know what he is thinking of? 

 -Mr Speaker, I refer to the petition I presented concerning the business of the House of Representatives, and I move: 
That the petition lodged by the honourable member for Mackellar relating to the notice of motion given by him on 6 May 1976 be printed. 
This is a petition asking that the House give proper consideration before its dissolution to the important matters before it. The action I propose to take in respect of that is to move in these terms: 
That, in the opinion the House, it would be undesirable for legislation to be put through in such a flood that members cannot understand it, evaluate it or know what they are voting on, or for the Committee stages of Bills to be scamped or scanted in an effort to save time; 
That, in the opinion of this House, it is undesirable that important papers presented by Ministers should be left for months undefeated and finally evaporate by prorogation or dissolution of the House. 
That, in the opinion of this House, certain matters on today's Business Paper, particularly General Business matters Nos. 1, 3, 23, 31 and 38 and the first matter scheduled for General Business Thursday No. 5, are deserving of proper debate before the House is dissolved. 
That this House, realising the short life before it, should not be reluctant to sit and should not embrace the principles of a ban on overtime. 
That the House- 
-Does the Treasurer recall his frequent statements in this House and elsewhere to the effect that a prime cause of high interest rates in Australia was the need to finance what he calls his 'Budget deficit' but what is really only a capital works program? Now that he has arranged to borrow from overseas amounts of money almost as great as what he calls his 'Budget deficit' so that he has no need to borrow locally for that purpose- and the excuse he has been - 
Very briefly, I support what has been said by the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  in this debate. I know that it is the practice at the end of a sessional period or a Parliament to have a tremendous flood of Bills. I remember no flood as bad as that with which we are confronted at the moment There are 10 Bills listed on the Notice Paper to be brought in today. On the Notice Paper are 22 undebated or scarcely debated Bills. Some of these Bills should lie on the table for some time so that the community can see them. I refer particularly to the Broadcasting and Television Amendment Bill. A number of responsible organisations, including churches, have asked that this Bill not be passed until they and other elements in the community have had a chance to see the nature of the Bill, which will have a great impact upon the social life of Australians. Apart from these Bills, I notice, for example, that the Government's own statement on defence lies undebated. It was one of the shames of this Parliament that we did not have an opportunity to debate the defence estimates, which were slammed through. I believe that one of the things that has gone into discard is the need for us to do something about Australia's defence policy. Now is not the time to debate it. 
I will not take up the time of the House for more than another few seconds, but I suggest that we should use every opportunity and every moment between now and the forecast dissolution of the House to sit in this chamber and see to the best of our ability that we reduce to the minimum- we cannot eliminate them- the troubles that are inherent in the situation that I have described. A moment ago I heard the Government Whip berating an honourable member for not attending the Parliament. Why should we attend the Parliament when we have put before us such a flood of new material that we cannot possibly digest it or understand it? I ask very definitely that the Government see that we have no ban on overtime- that is not something for honourable members-but that we sit every moment available until the House is dissolved. We can do at least that- and even that will not cure the disastrous situation that lies in front of us now. 
The Bill before us embodies the recommendations of the Commonwealth Grants Commission. I suppose those recommendations have to be accepted, but I find them very hard to follow and I think they could be open to criticism. We have had the report of the Grants Commission for only a little while. It was presented on 25 October and therefore most honourable members would not have had a chance to study it. On page 107 of the report the Grants Commission makes a recommendation which appears to me to be very ill-founded. If honourable members look at the details of the report I think that they will come to that conclusion. I want to refer particularly to the fact that Queensland, under its bushranging Premier, which is the only way in which I can describe him - 

 Mr Armitage- Is that Bjelke-Petersen? 
-Bjelke-Petersen. Under its bushranging Premier, Queensland has been able to eliminate its death duties- other States have not been able to do this-and yet we have nonsense talked by Queenslanders in this House about how Queenslanders are so heavily taxed and about things of this character. 
If one looks at page 42 of the Grants Commission report one will see that the Commission has expressed doubts about the facts of the case and makes qualifications there. It is a great pity that the Commission did not follow these qualifications, because it is a scandal that Queensland, which has been able to do this, should be given a grant for which other States have to pay. I am a bit sick of the people from New South Wales in this House and in the Senate who will not stand up for their own State and who let it be bled white by States such as Queensland. 
Bjelke-Petersen is a bushranger. Let us look at what has happened. Queensland has abolished death duties and we are paying for it. Because of that the Premier has been able to attract to 
Queensland a tremendous amount of investment from other States. 
-The honourable member says: 'Good luck to him. ' That is fair enough for a Queenslander but, as a New South Wales person, I say that this is bushranging. I am ashamed of my New South Wales colleagues who let this go on. It is time somebody stood up for New South Wales and stopped this bushranging. I can well sympathise with the people from Queensland. They are priming the parish pump with great success and they are getting money out of that pump. It is time this was stopped. 
Here we have Queenslanders saying: 'We are producing all this wealth'. That is so, because Queensland has tremendous natural resources and the bonanza of open-cut coal has fallen into its lap. Queensland should be paying to the other States rather than having the other States pay to it. What is going on is a scandal. Perhaps it is because of inefficient administration in Queensland; I do not know. What is happening in Queensland is very much like what happened on a smaller scale with the Channel Islands when they became a tax refuge and they profiteered at the expense of the rest of the British Isles. This is a bit of blatant profiteering, to abolish death duties and to use money which is being paid under this grant. 
-Yes. I am criticising the Grants Commission. I started off by criticising the Grants Commission and I do so because apparently the Grants Commission has been very naive. It has been sucked in and has not realised what was happening. This is just like the scandal that went on with the Channel Islands and the British economy. By reducing or eliminating their taxes they got all the hot money to come to them. In Australia we have free trade between the States under section 92 of the Constitution and we have a single currency. Inside the Australian economy there is no way of putting a rein upon a State which starts bushranging as Queensland is now doing. 
It is a tax haven. This is like some of the Norfolk Island scandals. Queensland is a tax refuge and a tax haven. It is making money out of that. Look at what is happening on the Gold Coast. Look at the way in which money and investment are flowing into the Gold Coast, as evidenced by the tremendous skyscrapers and things like that. This is all sucked out of the rest of the States of Australia which want to be fair and which keep up their necessary revenues. Queensland by cheating- it is cheating against the rest of Australia- is making a great deal of profit from this operation. I think it is utterly scandalous that this House should be voting money to a State which has behaved in that way. 
As I said a moment ago, I am ashamed of my New South Wales colleagues, who will not stand up and fight for their own State, who allow thenown State to be pillaged by Queensland in this way. That is what is happening and that is the truth of the matter. Because Queensland has abolished death duties it is profiteering at the expense of all the other Australian States. 
-Maybe death duties have to be abolished in other Australian States. That may have to be done. It may be less expensive to the other States to allow this anomaly to proceed than to abolish what is received in those States by way of death duties. Queensland is sucking the lifeblood out of the other States of Australia by this type of bushranging and profiteering in which the Premier of Queensland has indulged. It is about time it stopped. 
Queensland is a claimant State. It is a State where, as I have been reminded by Queenslanders a few moments ago, there are tremendous natural advantages. There has been the immense bonanza of open-cut coal. BjelkePetersen did not put the coal there. It just happened to be there. It was great luck. I believe that Queensland has rather mishandled its opportunities but its opportunities in natural resources are so great that even though Queensland has mishandled them, there is still a great deal left. Queensland has had a tremendous bonanza fall into its lap, and it is still a claimant State. Look at bauxite. Look at the Gladstone complex which is being paid for largely by Commonwealth money. Look at the extra grants that are being given to featherbed Queensland, right, left and centre. The tragic thing is that members from New South Wales will not stand up for their own State. They are prepared to ditch their own State in this and in other ways, and it is time something was done about it. From time to time over the last 20 years I have protested and raised my voice in this House against this. I have been alone. My colleagues from New South Wales have always abandoned me when I did this. I have had no support - 
I will tell you. It is because they are a lot of sheep. They are all looking for votes in the small States and are prepared to ditch New South Wales. 
New South Wales was the oldest of the States and it was the richest of the States. It was quite right that in the early days New South Wales should support the other States as a parent sup- ports his children. This was right, but the time as come now when New South Wales can no longer carry the burden. I would say that we have a very inefficient government in New South Wales but we have had a different kind of government over the past ten years and the burden still has been there. New South Wales can no longer maintain the burden of the high taxes and the high charges that it has to bear in order to subsidise the smaller States. I go to Sydney, and I still pay my toll over the Sydney Harbour Bridge. Is there any toll to cross the Tasman Bridge in Hobart? None at all, because we subsidised its construction. Western Australia receives an immense bonanza because it draws its road money on the basis of area. Where does it spend most of its money? On suburban freeways in Perth. The traffic runs freely because the freeways have been paid for by Sydney motorists but Sydney motorists have traffic jams all the time. 
I return to the Bill. We must accept, because we have not had time to study it, the report of the Grants Commission. We have had it in our hands for only a few days and the Government has seen fit to railroad this Bill through the House quickly without the members of the House having any opportunity to read the foundations on which this Bill is built. Although I have read it, I think that very few other members have read it. We are accepting uncritically the report of the Commonwealth Grants Commission. I say that the Grants Commission has not looked at the whole position properly. It has not drawn attention in this report to what is happening in Queensland as a result of the abolition of death duties which has not occurred in other States. This report says nothing about the extra wealth which is flowing to Queensland as once it flowed to the Channel Islands. Queensland has cheated the rest of the States. It has done something within the boundaries of a common currency and trade area which the other States are not doing. Because it has been able to do this, Queensland has drawn to itself wealth from the other States. This is something which any competent commission should have analysed and said something about. I have read this report. There is not one word in it about the effects of this iniquitous, unilateral abolition of death duties. 
-Exactly so. My friend asks why should there be; it has applied only from the beginning of this year. Apparently he has not looked at page 107 of the report and seen that some of the grant is for the coming year. Why has he not said so? Why did the Commission not say so? I think the Commission has been grossly negligent in not saying so. As I have said before, it is time we had a look at these things. It is terrible that Bills are railroaded through this House. Here we have a Bill which we have not had a chance to read fully, formulated on the recommendations of a report which is over 200 pages of close print and which was given to the Government only on 25 October. It has not been considered soberly by this House, and I venture to say it has not been read by the members who have supported the Bill in general. That is true. They have not had a chance to study it and I do not blame them. 
-They have not. I do not blame them because there have been other things before this House, and in the last week what chance do people have to look through a 200 page report and examine it critically? 
I turned to page 42 because I quoted from it a few moments ago. I mentioned the uncertainty - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The honourable member will address the Chair. 
I apologise,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  When there are disorderly interjections sometimes I cannot help but answer them. I hope you will be able to repress the interjectors as well as call me to order. Once again I come to the point. Queensland is a rich State. In many ways it is the richest of all the States. It has tremendous natural resources and advantages. It is a good place to live. It has everything ping for it yet it is the only claimant State. This is a shame and a reproach to Queensland, and it is a shame and a reproach to the Grants Commission that we are not able to bring the matter to some kind of proper and logical consideration. Queensland had a bonanza of copper at Mount Isa. It has a smaller bonanza of uranium at Mary Kathleen. It has the tremendous bonanza of bauxite at Weipa, which has caused a Commonwealth finance bonanza of industrial development at Gladstone. There will be a lot more development at Gladstone. The Premier of Queensland has appealed to foreign companies to bring in capital. This is not altogether to the advantge of Australia, but it certainly is to the advantage of Queensland. It is a case of the man who is selfishly following his own interests being able to get something at the expense of the national interest. 
I do not very often agree with my honourable friend, but I am afraid that for years we will have to pay hundreds of millions of dollars a year in dividends on coal which should have belonged entirely to Australians and when those dividends should have come entirely to Australians. It is not good enough to give these concessions to companies, even if a government does get a short term profit out of it. Yes, Queensland does get a short term profit, the Premier gets something for Queensland; but he betrays the national interest of all Australians while he does so. 
It is true that New South Wales has some coal prospects in the Hunter Valley. Perhaps they are not as great as those in Queensland, but they are there. New South Wales has had no real bonanza over the past .20 or 30 years, as some of the other States have had. Victoria has had the oil and gas bonanza. Western Australia has had the iron ore bonanza and it will get the off-shore oil bonanza. Queensland has had the bonanzas about which I have talked. Tasmania is limping. I do not know what has happened to Tasmania. Maybe its only bonanza is to be able to be feather-bedded by the Commonwealth Government at the expense of New South Wales. It is a real bonanza because it gets this tremendous feather-bedding. It gets all sorts of payments and they are made from New South Wales and, to a lesser extent, Victoria. These things are happening. New South Wales, which quite rightly in the past should have contributed and did contribute to the development of the smaller States, continues to be victimised - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I will not keep the House more than a couple of moments. I make three points. The first is that it is unfortunate that we have to sign a blank cheque because this Bill has been put forward with such haste. The second is that there are derelict mining towns all over the world. The vital point at present is that because of the stagnation of the economy there is no alternative employment for those who become unemployed when a mine cuts out. The third point is this: It is true that New South Wales does not get as favourable treatment as Tasmania. The honourable member for Darling  (Mr FitzPatrick)  referred to the Cobar mine in his electorate. If tomorrow he wants to bring into this House a Bill to do something equivalent for the Cobar mine I shall have the greatest pleasure in supporting it. 
The text which has been released has been regarded as an authentic text. I will not therefore go into the question of how it was released. I want to go into the question of its implications. It has been stated in the Press and I think by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  that the statement is opposed to the Government's policy. It seems to me, on the contrary, that implications of this statement support the Government's policy. 
I will speak on a very limited front. The statement itself is concerned with the investigation of the proliferation problems. There have been many doubts and heartbreakings about the nuclear energy program and the whole matter of the atom. Some of these have been of small consequence, but some are of the very greatest consequence. The one that  Mr Justice  Fox is speaking of is the most vital. A nuclear war, if one should ever come, could destroy not just the whole fabric of our society but indeed the whole fabric of the world. There is no doubt as to the terrible nature of the weapons which are being evolved.  Mr Justice  Fox describes what has happened and suggests a positive policy. Unhappily there is now no watertight proposal which can prevent the possibility of nuclear war. The chance of having that kind of safeguard is now gone. All we can do is reduce the probability of nuclear war. We cannot get rid of the possibility entirely. That does not mean that we should not be doing our best in every way to reduce the probability of this ultimate disaster. 
I speak now of  President  Carter's policy to which  Mr Justice  Fox directed his first remarks. That policy, which  Mr Justice  Fox said was now becoming ambiguous, had two main points: Firstly, the prohibition of the processing of the nuclear fuel from reactors and, secondly, the suspension of the program for what is known as fast breeders or power breeders which make more fuel than they consume. Doubts have been raised on this matter in two ways. First it is said that the Carter policy has been counterproductive because it is raising resentments among other countries which want to produce their own nuclear programs. It has been said- it was said to me by experts in the United Kingdom when I was there recently- that it is all very well for  President  Carter to suspend reprocessing when as a matter of fact the United States is having technical difficulties about reprocessing and other countries are not having technical difficulties. Reprocessing plants in other countries are working perfectly satisfactorily. I put that aside. There is no doubt, as  Mr Justice  Fox has said in the conference which has been reported, that other countries are resentful of what the United States is doing and they think that this is spragging their own nuclear development and doing them harm. If this is so, these aspects of  President  Carter's policy are in fact counter-productive. But there are more important things than this. If nuclear energy is denied to the world there will be an energy crisis and a starvation crisis and all the tensions which can lead to war. Honourable members should not think for one moment that in the ultimate consequence there is no possibility of a nuclear weapon being drawn. There is. 
A policy which denies nuclear energy is a policy of making nuclear war. Let us be quite clear about this. I know that a number of wellintentioned but rather ill-informed people are going around saving that by cutting out a nuclear program of peaceful development some kind of security is being given against nuclear war. This is exactly the opposite of the truth. The people who are against a nuclear program are in point of fact the warmongers, although their intentions in many respects may be good. 
Here is the dreadful truth. Let us face it. There is no restriction upon mining and supply of uranium which can give the slightest security against the proliferation of nuclear weapons. I speak as somebody who knows the techniques, have seen them and known them for years. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.1S p.m. 
-Before the suspension of the sitting I was saying that no denial of uranium would possibly prevent the dangers of the proliferation of nuclear weapons. Furthermore, no attempt to stop the development of nuclear power will be in the slightest way effective in stopping the proliferation of nuclear weapons. This is the dreadful danger which certainly overshadows every other kind of nuclear danger. It is so much greater than any other nuclear danger that in comparison the others are really not worth talking about I remind the House that countries such as France, Communist China, South Africa and Israel, which are now believed to have nuclear weapons capacity, did not get that capacity in any way through nuclear power. 
If one wants to make plutonium, one would not use power reactors. One would use a simple reactor of the old Calder Hall type with which it would be much easier to make plutonium. Indeed, if one is talking about nuclear weapons, one is not bound to plutonium. The concentrated uranium isotope 235 will be equally, or perhaps even more, efficient for that purpose. I will not go into the technical details of this, although I know them. I have been through the various plants in Europe and know the details of these processes. I can assure the House that anybody who thinks that by stopping the mining of Australian uranium or by stopping the development of nuclear power he is thereby impeding the processes of proliferation of nuclear weapons is very much astray. 
It is much more than that Those people are acting in a way which makes nuclear war more likely to occur. I am not saying that they are doing that deliberately. I believe that most of these people are naive and well intentioned. They are perhaps a little foolish, thinking that they know more than they do, but what they are doing when they go out on a campaign to stop nuclear energy is making nuclear war more likely to occur. In that regard they have a very heavy burden on their consciences. If we deny to the world nuclear power, if we deny to it energy, we are going to have the tensions created by starvation and the elements that make for war. 
I know- this report of  Mr Justice  Fox makes it very plain- that no system is or can be watertight in regard to nuclear material. It cannot be. What we have to do is not just to wring our hands and say that nothing can be done. We have to think out the best system which gives us the best chance of avoiding nuclear war. It is in that regard that the positive contributions of  Mr Justice  Fox, as outlined in this report now before us, are most important. He says firstly that although the plans of  President  Carter are not without their doubts, difficulties and ambiguities, nevertheless we should try to make them work as far as possible and to help  President  Carter in his efforts to prevent nuclear weapon proliferation and prevent nuclear war. For that purpose, we have to ensure, as  President  Carter himself points out, that there are ample uranium supplies. If we are not going to process the spent fuel rods- if we are going to store them- in the interim we will need much more uranium. 
Secondly, if we are to have a proper plan to give nuclear energy to those people who will starve without it- the world s population is doubling every 35 years- we will have to make available the necessary uranium for the nuclear energy program to proceed. Even if President Carter's plan is faulty, we should at least be helping. We should be helping to remove or minimise its faults and helping as far as we can to make it successful. The plan is directed to what we want, namely, the security of the world from nuclear war. 
One of the things which has been suggestedAustralia can give a lead in this area- is that as the elements of President Carter's plan become out of date and are superseded, there should be a plan for the reprocessing of spent fuel elements m a way which gives a multinational responsibility and the maximum of control. Do not let us think that any plan can be perfect. It cannot. But it is much better to have an imperfect plan than no plan at all. 
If the kind of nonsense that has been spoken by the Opposition is allowed to proceed, all that will happen is that we will be putting the world into nuclear anarchy. I do not suggest for one moment that the Opposition intends to do that. All I am saying is that it does not understand what it is doing. The course it is putting before us is one which- I was going to say 'is calculated' but it is not calculated- will achieve exactly the opposite consequence to that which it intends to achieve. This is something which the House has to consider. I think in a way it is fortunate that the report has now been leaked- the circumstances of its leaking are reprehensible enoughbecause these rather sound views of  Mr Justice  Fox will now be able to be considered by this House. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. I call the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. 
I shall be  Senator Wentworth,  but at the present I am the member for Mackellar. I move: 
After clause 2, insert the following new clause: 2A. After section 6 of the Principal Act the following section is inserted: 6A. ( 1 ) There shall be a Broadcasting Council consisting of 20 persons nominated by the Minister, of whom not more than half shall be connected with the broadcasting-television industry. 
In selecting members connected with the broadcastingtelevision industry, the Minister shall have regard to the views of the industry as a whole. 
In selecting members not connected with the broadcastingtelevision industry, the Minister shall have regard to the views of socially concerned and religious bodies, as well as to the general views of the public. 
Members shall be appointed for a term of 1 year, but may be removed sooner from office by regulation. 
5 ) The Minister may prescribe procedures for the sittings and operations of the Broadcasting Council. '. 
If honourable members look at clause 6 of the Bill they will see that reference is made to a broadcasting council. Although there is power, apparently in the regulations, to set up a broadcasting council there is no direction in the Bill as to what it will consist of. I think that this is entirely wrong. The broadcasting council- this really follows on from the reports which have been presented anterior to this Bill- should be representative not only of the stations but also of the public, and particularly representative of those concerned social and religious organisations which have a very proper interest in matter to be broadcast. 
We should have a broadcasting council. It is a matter of great importance. I suggest, firstly, that the broadcasting council should consist of 20 persons nominated by the Minister, of whom not more than half should be connected with the broadcasting and television industry. It will be an advisory council only. It will not have legislative or regulatory powers. Secondly, I suggest that in selecting members connected with the broadcasting and television industry, the Minister should have regard to the views of the industry as a whole. I think that is only fair. Thirdly, I suggest that in selecting members not connected with the broadcasting and television industry, the Minister should have regard to the views of socially concerned and religious bodies, as well as to the general views of the public. I think this is of extreme significance. 
The effect of television, or what I call the competition in pornography, has to be stopped. 
-The first thing to do is appoint a reasonable advisory committee. Let us look at this seriously. Sex sells goods over television, in the Press and everywhere. So the stations, whether they like it or not, are now engaged in a pornography race, each being compelled by the needs of their own viability to engage in as much pornography as they can get away with. They are forced to do so. If they do not their competitors will take away their market. It is exactly the same kind of thing with an arms race. There is competition in arms. Unless there is some regulation, everybody has to engage in the arms race because otherwise they cannot survive. We have an arms race in the world because there is no real regulatory body. If a country is to survive it has to have defence. The position in the world today is that countries have to engage in the arms race whether they like it or not. 
So in this less comprehensive field of broadcasting and television, the companies are compelled, by the requirements of their viability, to engage in a pornography race. It is important that there should be some kind of regulation not just in the interests of the community, although that is the overriding thing, but also in the interests of the companies themselves. If there are no regulations, for reasons of viability each company has to go as far as it can in the pornography race. This is a general trend in the industry. The standards of the industry, as far as pornography are concerned, are going down and down. By the relentless force of competition those standards will continue to be pressed down unless there is some kind of regulation of them. 
The first thing to do, although it is not the only thing to do, is to have a proper broadcasting council. The Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  agrees with this in a sense because clause 6 of the Bill contains provision for the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal to consult with a broadcasting council if one exists. But this is not good enough. I think it is unprecedented for any Act of Parliament to provide for consultation with a council which has no constitution and no existence in law or in fact. Perhaps the Minister can correct me but I do not think that a provision like this has ever been put into an Act of Parliament. Because anything like this has never been put into an Act of Parliament before, I think we ought to see that the anomaly is corrected. We should give to the Minister a direction as to how this broadcasting council is to be constituted. I hope that the House will see the reason of this. I hope that there will be in the House sufficient people of goodwill who realise the extreme dangers which are being pressed on the whole of our community by reason of this inevitable competition in pornography which we are forcing on the broadcasting and television stations because we do not give any rules to the game. 
I am not saying that I blame the stations. They have to live. We are creating conditions under which the stations cannot live without engaging in this competition in pornography. Let us get rid of this undesirable situation and let us have regulations which are to the benefit of all the stations. That will remove the competition in pornography, but much more importantly- I will speak more about this when we come to a later amendment which I propose to move to the Bill- we should hot destroy the community. We are in fact destroying it by exposing it to the results of this kind of competition in pornography. 
The House must realise that we are in control of the broadcasting media, the television media. We have to realise our responsibility for what we are doing to the community by our failure to act. I will speak with more relevance when addressing myself to an amendment I wish to move later. For the present let me concentrate on this aspect. It is unprecedented that we have to put into an Act a reference to a broadcasting council which is unconstituted. As far as I know, there is nothing like it in Australian law. Let us cure this anomaly by laying down the rules under which the council should be constituted. 
I appreciate very much the reluctance of the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock)  to vote on this legislation in the circumstances. It is proper, I think, that he should refrain from voting because of his pecuniary interest. However, I am grateful for his comments. I do not agree with the suggestion made by the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson). 
Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Proposed new clause negatived. 
Clause 3 (Pecuniary interests). 
I propose to move three amendments. Two are important and one is of less consequence. I seek leave to move the three amendments together. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drummond)  -Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
I move: 
In proposed section 16, after paragraph (d) of sub-section ( 1 ) insert the following paragraph: '(da) to determine what standards should be observed in regard to programs which are likely to be viewed by children, having regard to the fact that radio and television sets are usually located in family rooms, where it is difficult for parents to maintain continuous supervision;' 
I know there is a move to allow films which have a low obscenity rating to be shown on television at certain late hours. But it must be remembered that it is not possible for the parents to be supervising the television set all the time. It is quite different from a cinema where a person has to pay to go in and where the parents can keep some kind of control. When the set is in the room the children can turn it on. Really no control is possible within normal viewing hours. So I do ask that the interest of children be kept in mind when these standards are being prescribed. For example, we would not want heroin to be brought into our homes but the kinds of social drugs which are being conveyed over the television are equally deadly to the children. Perhaps this is linked to drug use by children. 
We are now talking about something which is quite serious. I am sorry that the House is almost empty. Apparently nobody has any interest in this matter. To my way of thinking we are now in the position where we should protect the community from the kinds of things that can be done and will be done because of the pressure of the competition of pornography. We cannot blame the stations for this because the stations must live. Whilst there is no regulation on them, every station must be put down to the lowest level of obscenity all the time. There will be a competition in obscenity between the stations because that is what the stations will need if they are to remain viable. 
I am sorry. The amendments were circulated. It is the duty of members to be in the chamber if they are interested in standards. My second amendment is one of small consequence. I move: 
In sub-section (2) of proposed section 16 omit 'or, if there is no Broadcasting Council, it shall consult representatives of those stations'. 
I have suggested that we omit those words because there should be a Broadcasting Council unless it is pure persiflage on the part of the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)-  and I am not saying that it is. 
The last matter I wish to raise is the important one. I want honourable members to consider this amendment very particularly. I move: 
After sub-section (2) of proposed section 16 insert the following sub-section: '(2a) In performing its functions under paragraph (d) of sub-section ( 1 ) in relation to broadcasting or television stations, the Tribunal shall adopt the standards currently in force at the time of the commencement of this Act, and shall maintain them unless and until other standards have been approved by regulation under this Act. '. 
The House is of course familiar with the general standards which have been brought in. I am not saying that these are necessarily the right standards. Some people might think they are too strict and some people might think they are not strict enough. My own view is that they are too lax. But that is not the point. The point is that if there is to be any change of standards, the Parliament should know about it. The Parliament should not give away to some tribunal the power to determine the morals of the community. That is what it is doing. If there is going to be change, and maybe there should be change, at least the Parliament should be told about it and approve of it and take responsibility for it. People who should have been interested in this debate were in the chamber a few moments ago but walked out. 
I am not going to name them. They have walked out. The interjection of the honourable member for North Sydney was not without its relevance. These people, who should have been interested, did know that I was going to raise these matters; but as the phrase goes, those on the other side of the chamber walked out. They and other members want to shrug off their responsibilities in this regard. 
-This goes for the Labor Party as well as the Liberal Party. Members want to shrug off their responsibilities. There are members of the Labor Party who are concerned with the Christian Fellowship and things like that. They organise our service at the opening of the parliamentary session. Where are they now? They are not in this chamber and they are not willing to speak. Here we are talking about something which is of great consequence to the whole future of the community. If they think that the subject of progressive pornography which we are forcing on the stations is not important, particularly for young people, and that it is not linked to the drug degeneracy which we see around us all the time and which is increasing then they should think again. This is something which is really important. Now we are apparently going to shrug off all pur responsibilities. We have these broadcasting program standards. All honourable members are familiar with the book, entitled:  Television Broadcasting Standards  which is put out by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board. We might as well tear up the book. That is what we are doing if we pass this legislation; we are tearing up the book and putting ourselves entirely in the hands of a tribunal which is not really responsible to this Parliament. 
I am not saying at the moment that there should be no change in standards. At the moment I am prepared to leave that question open. But what I am saying is that in a matter of such grave consequence no change in standards should be made unless the House knows about it and approves it. It is our responsibility because television and radio come within the responsibility of this Parliament. These things are largely responsible for quite disastrous changes which are taking place at present within the community. It is all very well to shrug it off and say that we do not need these old standards. It is all very well to shrug it off and say that it is not the business of the Parliament. The Parliament has responsibilities and let it, at its peril, retreat from those responsibilities. I press these amendments and in particular I press the third amendment. I ask,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  that you put the amendments separately to the Committee. 
If I might reply very briefly to the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier),  I do not think that he has understood the position. I am trying to put into the Act what he says should be there. He says that these standards will be maintained until there is some reason for change. 
-All right I only want to put into the Act what should be there. The Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  does not know for certain what party will be in government in another couple of months. I hope that it will be the same government but I do not know. It is quite wrong for us to say that we must not direct the Tribunal, that we must not pre-empt the decisions, when we are debating a Bill which in some respects does preempt the decisions. What is wrong with saying that in the law there should be the kind of thing which the Minister says he has done by way of some kind of unpublished letter to the Tribunal? At least we know about that letter now, and that is something, but he may not always be the Minister. The Tribunal may not take much notice of his letter and maybe we will have another Minister who might be mo-timing. Why not put into the law the position which Government supporters say they want to be in the law? Government supporters say that they want the standards maintained until there is some kind of considered change. AU right, fair enough. Why do they not put it into the law? Why do they reject in the law the thing that they say they are doing? I think this raises very considerable suspicion that perhaps the Minister himself istwo-timing the Committee. Here we have the position where the Minister says that something should be done. Then he says: 'Do not put it in the Act because this would pre-empt decisions'. I do not think this is credible or plausible. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drummond)  -There is no point of order. I call the honourable member for Mackellar. 

Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  agreed to: 
That the question by now put 
It means that the Committee is not interested in protecting the community from pornography at all. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member for Mackellar will resume his seat. 
-There is a fair number of hypocrites in this chamber. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member for Mackellar will resume his seat. 

The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member for Mackellar will resume his seat. 
I just want to make it clear that there are hypocrites in this chamber. There is no interest in this. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member for Mackellar will resume his seat. 
-They know very well they do not want- 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member for Mackellar will resume his seat. If he does not resume his seat I will be forced to deal with him. 
Amendments negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 7 to 9- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Clauses 10 to 12- by leave- taken together.  (Quorum formed). 
I agree with the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen.  (Quorum formed).  Clause 10 requires amendment. It should not be passed in its present form. I say that for reasons which are rather more serious than those which the honourable member has adduced. If honourable members will look back at clause 6 of the Bill which we have already passed they will see that one of the functions of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal is to determine the standards to be observed by licensees in respect of the broadcasting or televising of programs. What does interest mean? This gives to the Tribunal the ability to exclude any evidence that it wants to. In other words, the Parliament is setting up the mechanism of a kangaroo court. Particularly is this so because the main function of the Tribunal is to see- 
Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  proposed: 
That the question be now put. 
Another snort from the Bendigo pig. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drummond)  -Order! The honourable member for Bendigo will withdraw that comment. 
I ask the question: Do honourable members have any idea what they are voting on? 
Clause agreed to. 
-I will be very brief. I express some disapointment at the way in which these Bills have been treated in the House. It seems to me that there has been a lack of sense of proportion. The great thing about this - 
Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
I understand the peculiar circumstances in which this Bill has been brought forward, and it must be supported. However, I shall move a small amendment which I think the Government will accept. 
I am just foreshadowing it now. 
Yes. It will be a small amendment. 
I want to explain the position in regard to it. I simply want to limit the operation of the - 
Motion ( by  Mr Bourchier)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
Proposed new clause 4. 
I move: 
After clause 3 add the following new clause: 
This Act shall cease to have effect on 3 1 March 1978. 
This amendment simply does what the Government says it wants to do. I realise the peculiar circumstances in which this Bill has been introduced, but we do not want to have a permanently small Grants Commission. Consequently, it would be quite wrong to make this temporary adjustment and to allow it to stand permanently in the Act. So, I see no reason why the Government should not accept this small amendment. I think that the Government will accept it because it simply puts into the Bill what the Government says it wants to do. I think that the House would not want to cut the Grants Commission down permanently. 
I  move: 
That the Chairman's ruling be dissented from. 
It is nonsense. It is monstrously wrong. 
Question resolved in the negative. 
I think that this Bill is a little dangerous because its provisions are to be continued in operation for so long. 
Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment. 
Adoption of Report 
Motion (by  Mr Street)  proposed: 
That the report be adopted. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  I think that the Committee of the Whole should reconsider - 
Motion ( by  Mr Bourchier)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Report adopted. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  I think that this is an unsatisfactory Bill because - 
Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
-I move: 
That the petition lodged by the honourable member for Mackellar relating to Commonwealth Grants to New South Wales be printed. 
The petition reads as follows: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned electors of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the grants and payments made by the Commonwealth to the State of New South Wales have consistently been less per capita than the Australian average. 
That although the High Court has determined that ownership of off-shore oil rests with the Commonwealth and not with the States, the Commonwealth has made arrangements which deprive New South Wales of its fair share of the benefits from such oil 
That New South Wales has thus suffered adverse discrimination at Commonwealth hands. 
Your petitioners therefore pray that your Honourable House will cause these matters to be investigated and ventilated without delay, so that due restitution can be made to the people of New South Wales. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
In accordance with the Standing Orders, I now move - 
It is my intention to move for the insertion of a new clause relating to the means test. As the Committee will know, the present Government in its policy speech committed itself to the abolition of the means test. Indeed, I believe my friends in the Opposition have also been persuaded to adopt the same policy. It has been a little disappointing to the country that the Government has so far made no move towards implementing the policy which it has adopted. I believe it is fair to say in regard to the abolition of the means test that for many years I have been the prime mover, that is, apart from a former member,  Sir Keith  Wilson, who for the past 25 years and more has also been advocating this. 
When I was a Minister I was able to persuade the Government of the day-that was the McMahon Government- to commit itself to the abolition of the means test. That has been the policy of the Government parties ever since. I believe that it is time now for that policy to be implemented. Something should be done about it. It is of no use the Government saying: 'We do not have the finance to do it'. The amount of money is substantial, but it is not astronomical. 
The honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  earlier this afternoon quoted percentages of those who drew pensions. I think he gave a figure of 78 per cent. He was wrong, of course, because he did not allow for war pensions and other pensions of this character which considerably inflate that figure. Let us look properly at the figures and remember that pensions are taxable. In practically all cases those who would draw pensions if the means test were abolished but who do not draw them now would be paying tax at the rate of at least 33c in the dollar. Some would be paying more. The actual cost to the revenue is by no means as great as certain people have endeavoured to put about. I will not go into the merits of this reform now, as time is short. I move: 
After clause 2, insert the following new clause: '2A. Section 28 of the principal Act is amended by omitting from sub-paragraph (i) of paragraph (b) of sub-section (2AA) "70" and substituting"65-. 
The amendment is a simple one. It would have the effect of abolishing the means test for everybody over 65 years of age. 
-The money is there. I make no apology for saying that. The money is there already. There is a surplus in the revenue Budget. The trouble is that people are being taxed to pay for capital works. That is the reason for high rates of taxation in the community- this is one of the fundamental errors of the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)-  and for the delay in the implementation of reforms such as the abolition of the means test, which is one of the Government's planks for which a commitment was given in the last policy speech. I would have liked to have spoken to the amendment for half an hour. In view of the fact that honourable members want to get away, I will not go into the principles which I have explained over many years and on which I have been successful in carrying the Government parties with me. When I was Minister for Social Services I was able to force this policy on to the Government parties. That is no exaggeration. They have adopted it. They are committed to it specifically by the words of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in his policy speech prior to the last election. I hope that the amendment will be carried. 
-I am most pleased that this new Part will be inserted. This matter goes back for nearly 10 years now, when I was Minister for Social Services. It is a matter which I urged then on the Government. 
Yes, without success. When the McMahon Government was defeated this matter was at the top of the list of priorities. In respect of each Budget since then I have protested at it not being included. I protested when I was in Opposition. I regret to say that at that time I did not get a great deal of support from my party in that regard. I protested when we were returned to office. I have previously described this matter as the greatest gap in our social services structure. I congratulate the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  who has been able to force this matter through. I think this is a great triumph. I know that the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck)  and other honourable members have been tremendously interested in it. As the person who, I think, was primarily responsible for putting this matter forward, I have the greatest pleasure now in supporting it. It gives me the greatest pleasure to note that the Government has seen fit to do this. My only regret is that it has taken so long to get a necessary, right and proper thing done. 
-I give notice that at the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That as telephone charging districts for Sydney and Melbourne are based upon similar distances measured from the General Post Office, and since in consequence over half the Sydney charging districts is over water, while most of the Melbourne district is over land, it would be equitable in the case of Sydney to take the measurement from the centre of population- that is somewhere in the vicinity of Homebushthus including the Campbelltown, Penrith and Windsor districts within the charging districts without excluding any area at present inside the district. 
I further give notice - 
-I further give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That this House views with dismay the proposal of the New South Wales Government to abandon most of the projected inner city freeways and to sell the land already acquired for them, and therefore the House requests the Minister for Transport to approach the New South Wales Government and to urge that it change its announced plan before it is too late. 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That this House requests the Government to urge the United States to amend its security agreements with Australia and to put them on the same footing as its NATO commitments, where a public pledge has been given that US constitutional processes will not operate to delay swift and necessary action to meet any aggression. 
-Has the attention of the Prime Minister been directed to the proceedings of the recent meeting of economists at the Brookings Institute in Washington? Is he aware that this meeting virtually acknowledged that the economic policy hitherto pursued by developed nations overseas had been grossly wrong? Because in the past the Treasurer has slavishly followed overseas leads, can we expect him now to make a rapid reappraisal of fundamental economic policies? Should we interpret some recent rather tentative relaxation of economic restrictions not as election bait but rather as an implicit recognition that past policy was wrong and should be changed? 
I move: 
After paragraph (d) of the definition of 'primary production ' insert the following paragraph: '(e) mineral and mineral exploration operations conducted by Australian electors or by corporate bodies of which at least 80 per cent of the ultimate ownership is in the hands of Australian electors, '. 
This is a Bill to give preferential treatment to certain types of industry. Of course we must think of those types of industry which are most valuable to the Australian economy as a whole. Everybody has a sympathy with farmers in their difficulties. They are real difficulties. One would want to offer help to farmers, provided it did not penalise other sections of industry, but from the point of view of the Australian economy as a whole- I am not speaking about social things; I am speaking about economic things- the most valuable and productive section of the economy is the mineral section. This is the section in which, from the Australian point of view, the most opportunity lies. It is a form of primary production. In reality, it is just as much primary production as is farming or fishing. From the point of view of the economy, it is more valuable than any other form of primary production. Nationally, this is the section which should get the most preferential help, because it is the section which is most likely to bring Australia out of its present financial difficulties. 
Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. Amendment negatived. Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 4 to 6- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 7. 
1 ) Notwithstanding anything contained in any other Act, but subject to sub-section 4(8), the Treasurer may, from time to time, on behalf of the Commonwealth, make grants or loans to the Rural Bank on such terms and conditions as he determines. 
I move: 
In sub-clause ( 1 ) insert 'by regulation' after 'may '. 
This clause gives the Treasurer the power to make loans. The purpose of the amendment is to ensure that the loans are made by regulation and that a blank cheque is not given. I put to the Committee that I do not know of any section in any Act which gives a blank cheque as is given by this clause. It gives to the Treasurer power to make advances, to pay out Commonwealth money and to add to the deficit without any constraint whatsoever. It may be that people on one side of the Parliament would trust one Treasurer and that people on the other side would trust another, but I do not think that either side would want to give to the Treasurer of another political colour an absolutely blank cheque. As I have said, I believe this matter is unprecedented. I do not think there is anything in Commonwealth legislation like this. 
Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  proposed: 
That the question be now put. 
I will take this matter to the country if you gag my speaking in this Parliament. This is a scandal, and you will not let me talk about it. This will go to the country. 
I am not against the fanner.  Mr Deputy Chairman,  I ask the honourable member to withdraw something that is untrue. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drummond)  -Order! Will the honourable member for Mackellar resume his seat. The Chair did not hear what was said, and I do not believe that anybody else heard what was said. Therefore I cannot rule on whether anything should be withdrawn. 
I will tell you what was said,  Mr Deputy Chairman.  It was said by the honourable member for Cowper that I was against the farmer. Nothing could be more untrue. I think it is time a little protection was given from the Chair. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Will the honourable member for Cowper consider withdrawing that comment? 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 8 agreed to. 
Clause 9. 
1 ) Subject to sub-section (3), the Rural Bank may adopt such policy as it determines with respect to any matter related to the conduct of its business. 
The Bank shall keep the Treasurer informed as to its policies and proposed policies. 
-I wish to move two amendments in respect to clause 9. I think the first amendment would represent the general view of the Committee and that it should be carried. I move: 
After proposed sub-section ( 1 ) insert the following subsection: ( 1 A) The Bank shall in general aim at keeping the interest rates upon its loans to the lowest figure compatible with its other objectives.'. 
I think it is rather extraordinary that no policy is laid down in the Bill. The Bill says nothing about what the policy should be. Again we are writing a completely blank cheque. A Treasurer cannot even determine under the Bill what the policy is to be. The sole power of the Treasurer is to revoke a licence. I wonder what happens if a licence is revoked. What happens about the liabilities of the Bank and the assets of the Bank. Nothing is said in the Bill about these things. So the Treasurer will be given a power the exercise of which will cause consequences quite unforeseeable. If he does not exercise that power, he has no control whatsoever over the policy of the Bank. Frankly, I do not think this is good enough. 
I think, first, that it is necessary for the Bank to have a general policy of lending at low interest rates, that is, as far as is compatible with its other objectives. Furthermore, although the Bank may report to the Treasurer, that can be done in secret. All these things can be done under the lap without the Parliament knowing about them. I put it to the Committee that perhaps that is all right when the Treasurer is from the present Government side of the chamber, and it may be all right for Opposition members when the Treasurer comes from the side of the present Opposition. But do Government supporters want to give to a Labor Treasurer a blank cheque or do honourable members on the Labor side want to give a Liberal Treasurer a completely blank cheque? 
Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put.  Amendment negatived. 
-I wish to move a second amendment in respect of clause 9. 1 move: 
After proposed sub-section (2) insert the following subsection: 
*(2A) The Treasurer shall keep the Parliament informed as to the policies of the Bank, and shall report any change or modification of such policies to Parliament at the first opportunity'. 
I think this amendment is quite important. As the clause stands at present, all these things can be done secretly and - 

 - Mr Deputy Chairman, I raise a point. I want an explanation from the Minister about a matter in the Schedule - 
Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put.  Remainder of Bill agreed to. Bill reported without amendment. 
Adoption of Report 
Motion (by  Mr Viner)  proposed: 
That the report be adopted. 
-I should like to speak against that motion. This Bill has been railroaded through the Committee and matters of importance - 
Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put.  Original question resolved in the affirmative. Report adopted. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker- 

Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I draw your attention to a breach of faith - 
Motion ( by  Mr Sinclair)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
House adjourned at 12.17 a.m. (Tuesday) 
-I move: 
That the petition relating to the statement by the Prime Minister on the means test be printed. 
The petition reads as follows: 
The humble petition of the undersigned electors of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth- 
That in his Policy Speech prior to the last elections the Right Honourable the Prime Minister said, 'We stand by our commitment to abolish the means test on pensions'. 
That at the time it was generally considered that this statement of the Prime Minister's was something more than an empty form of words. 
That since the last election, there has been no action by the Government towards the abolition of the means test 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that your Honourable House, prior to its dissolution, will ask the Prime Minister to make a definite statement as to what action he proposes to take, and when he proposes to take it, towards the abolition of the means test. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will forever pray. 
It is obvious that many people voted - 
-This Bill is to be supported because it is quite certain that the Australian transport system needs replanning and research for replanning. There has been a good deal of talk in the past and I think it is unfortunate that so little practical result has emerged from it. I wish to speak on one or two things which could and should be done. Let me remind the House, firstly, that Australia is a country of great distances and where transport costs are very heavy. Secondly, Australia along with other countries shortly is going to face a crisis in liquid fuel. Thirdly, Australia has at the present moment unused resources of labour and materials which could be used now to provide the economies in fuel for the future. In other words, what we are doing now in failing to use our resources of men and materials- these years of the locust can never be recovered- does prevent us in the future redressing our balance on current account difficulties through the costs of importing liquid fuels and the difficulties of buying oil abroad. 
Let me come firstly to railways. At the outset we must do something about the SydneyMelbourne line. Considering the volume of traffic that it carries and could carry, that line is a national disgrace. I refer to the section between Junee and Kapooka. Honourable members will recall that between Sydney and Junee there is a double line but at Kapooka this contracts to a single line to Albury- a single line which has to carry not only interstate traffic but also a good deal of local traffic for the Wagga-Albury district. That line is made more difficult by the fact that it has the nasty descent to the Murrumbidgee River which the line crosses at Wagga, and of course the line has to go up again after crossing the river. So the first thing to look at surely is that section from Junee to Kapooka- 20 or 30 miles. This single line should be duplicated in such a way that the uphill grades are eased. This can be done, of course, by using the new line one way up and one way down and using the old line in the same way. Then there is the section from 
Kapooka to Albury. This is a relatively flat and easy section. I am not certain at this present moment whether it would be better to duplicate that or whether it would be better to put in a centralised train control. I am inclined to think that the former is the better, considering the volume of traffic which can and should be carried on it. 
The next piece of alignment to be considered is in Sydney itself. Honourable members will recall how that southern line snakes out and follows a winding course to Liverpool. The southern line should go out via East Hills and cross the George's River twice and rejoin the existing main line at about Macquarie Fields. There is only about five or six miles in it. There are two bridges over the George's River. This would save an immense amount of trouble and bring quite tremendous economies. I have talked about the route of that line. It should also be considered not only in respect of horizontal curves and grades but in respect of vertical curves also. This used not to be important when short trains were running, but when long trains are running the vertical curves and a change in grade are of quite significant technical importance. That line needs looking at. 
That line carries only a small proportion of the goods traffic between Sydney and Melbourne. When I was in England recently I was talking to experts on road-rail traffic and when I told them that there was 600 miles of line between Melbourne and Sydney but still well over half of the goods traffic went by road they could not believe it. It seemed to them utterly incredible because even in England where there is the long haul from London to Glasgow- I think it is of the order of 400 miles- the predominant traffic still goes by rail, not by road although there are the freeways and all the advantages that the roads in England have over the roads here. It is absolutely incredible that so much of the goods traffic between Melbourne and Sydney still goes by road. It is an indictment on the efficiency of our railways. 
Then one thinks particularly of the terminals and the way in which containers and other goods are handled at these terminals. I know that one company- Thomas Nationwide Transport Pty Ltd- has made some effort to deal with this. It is, I think, the only company and its efforts are by no means commensurate with the need to get the railways working efficiently. It is not just a question of the physical layout of the terminal; it is also a question of the handling of trains and trucks at the terminal and the co-ordination of the two. Again when I was in Europe recently I had a careful look at what was being done there and I can assure the House that the Australian practices are years and years out of date. 
Let me come to the next point about railwayselectrification. When we changed from coal to diesel locomotives we did it for very good reason, namely, that diesel was much more economical. At that time we did not know what the Arabs were going to do to us about oil prices and supplies, but still we made the change and it is paying off but we should be going back to using indigenous fuel, and that means the electrification of main railway lines. 
Let me speak particularly of New South Wales where the first priority is the line between Sydney and Melbourne. That line is already electrified between Sydney and Campbelltown. Electrification of that line should be extended as far as Albury. Of course the Sydney to Brisbane line, which is already electrified as far as Gosford, should go via Maitland to pick up the Newcastle links, and the Newcastle system itself should be electrified. Another line which certainly is overdue for electrification is the line from Maitland to Werris Creek. I put this to the House because electrification is particularly desirable where a line has either heavy traffic or heavy grades, or both, because the electric locomotive running on an outside power source is the ideal animal to deal with the heavy grades. If that line is electrified over the hills into Werris Creek it would deal with the main needs of that area as far as efficient rail transport is concerned. Of course we have to think of the Hunter Valley and we have to think of the new systems which are going to go in by reason of the very great increase in coal development in that area, and this proposal that I make will serve them. 
Let me turn to the line from Lithgow to Parkes. The line is electrified over the Blue Mountains where there are compensating grades, I think, still of one-m-thirty three- one of the heaviest main line grades in the world. Between Lithgow and Parkes the line gets down on to flat country and there are some very bad grades on that line which carries heavy traffic and it is worth electrification. Finally, the little loop from Sutherland to Wollongong and up to Moss Vale which still carries heavy steel traffic and heavy suburban traffic is one line where electrification obviously is overdue. This is something which could be done now. We are wasting resources and wasting the future. We have idle manpower and idle factories that could produce the equipment. We will need these things in the future. 
The years of the locust can never be recovered. This is the time to take action. To fail to do so now because of some obsession about a deficit is really beyond human understanding. We need these things now. We can never recover the time lost in the periods during which factories are idle. It will be gone. Let us get on with the job and do now the things that we shall need in order to cut down our dependence upon imported oil in the near future. In only seven, eight or nine years time Australia 's oil supplies will start to constrict. We may find more oil on the North West Shelf. We have not found it yet. It may well be there. Even if oil is discovered now, it will be many years before it is in economic production. 
In regard to railways, we must fix up the main Melbourne line and carry out some electrification. We must concentrate on our main lines. In particular, we must think of the terminals and the way in which traffic is handled. People who know something of the signal system in Sydney know how vastly and unnecessarily complicated the system is. Railways are out of date in their thinking very often because they are still bound to a position where there was no real motor transport. They do not think in new terms. The trouble about a train, of course, is that it runs on rails and is hard to shunt. When one starts to break up a line of trucks and reform them one loses a lot of time and incurs a lot of cost. We have to think in terms of complete rakes of trucks which are never broken up. That is the economic way of doing things. If we do this we can slash freight rates. A massive reduction in rail freights for rural areas is long overdue. There has to be some reassessment of our handling of livestock on rail. By comparing our trucks and the way in which they are marshalled and handled here with what is being done in some countries overseas we see how far out of date the Australian system is and how much we could help our graziers and the whole rural industry if we would reorganise our way of handling livestock on rail. We must get the freight costs down. We should make it possible, when the varied seasons give a drought in one area and rich pastures somewhere else, to move stock about with reasonable facility and at low cost. 
I have spoken of rail and I have spoken of goods. I speak now of passengers. The concept of a high speed passenger rail service in Australia probably has little application because we do not have the population concentrations which make it so economical in places such as Great Britain and Japan. Let me talk of our suburban railways. In the cities we have to cut down our use of liquid fuel. This can be done partly by helping public transport to become efficient I do not mean that this should be done by penalising the motorist or making the motorist uncomfortable. I believe that we should do this by giving a better and cheaper alternative. I wish I had time to speak more on this matter. I just indicate to the House briefly that the development of the underground rail system in the cities obviously is called for. We have, here again, to get the costs down. I wonder whether we have taken sufficient note of the possibility of using small buses or whether we have yet appreciated the full impact of having suburban transport on which no fares are collected. The costs of collecting fares are sometimes more than the fares collected. In inner city operations fare collection shows a net loss. We would get a better service and lose less money if we did not collect fares. 
I am sorry that the Labor Government in New South Wales is ditching the inner city freeways. It is a most retrograde decision and one which I think can be made only in complete ignorance or with some kind of malicious idea of slugging the motorist. I do not know which it is. In the cities we have to think of proper freeways which, in a sense, will save fuel but also will make it possible for the motorist to use his car to real advantage. We have to save fuel. But what about the liquefied petroleum gas that we waste? Where are the plans for conversion of government vehicles on a major scale from petrol to LPG? Where are the plans to get rid of all excise and other charges on LPG and the corresponding difficulties of using LPG? Where are the plans to organise new outlets for LPG so that motorists can have the convenience of a bowser? Where are the plans to cut down the registration costs on vehicles which are equipped for LPG and which by using that fuel not only reduce our oil bill but in addition reduce- not eliminate- the pollution in cities. This, of course, is only a temporary alleviation. We have to think further of electric vehicles for city and commuter use. They are not, at present, as economic as they should be; but they are improving. The Government should be spending more money on them and showing much more interest in electric vehicles, particularly the small vehicles and the vehicles which can be mass produced and which can give a special service m cities as commuter vehicles. 
I am coming to the end of my time not only in this speech but also in speaking in this House. I have been able to put before the House some of the things which I intend to urge when I take my place in the Senate next year. These are some of the things which I believe are the proper concern of a House of review which can look at the overall plans and by so doing hope to improve the efficiency of an Australian transport system which remains, for all our planning, a national disgrace. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. Bill read a second time. 
-I thank the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  for what he said about my going into the Senate. In regard to the red seats, if I can say what Shakespeare should have written, I hope I will be making the red one green. It is said that at this time all one's life passes before one. This would not be credible if people had not survived to tell it. I hope that now in a flash of time my recollection of what has happened in this Parliament presages nothing for me. Anyway, honourable members can be certain that I do not go gentle into that good night. 
I came to this Parliament in 1949 with one thing primarily in my mind. It was not something which I meant to do but which I hoped would be done and in which I would play a tiny part in getting it done. It was not done. I wanted to see that the world would sieze the opportunity for nuclear disarmament before proliferation. I believed then that that was the time for it to be done and that if it were not done then the world would be a worse place from then on. Now we wait for the hatching of that dreadful nuclear egg and we wonder what will come out of it. I fear that I was right then. I regret more than ever not my failing, because I could play only the tiniest part, but I regret this ambition failing. 
Now I have had to leave my party. I did this not just because I felt that what was being done here on the economic scene was wrong; I did it also because I believed that what was being done here was part of something on a world scene which was being done wrong and that the establishment, by its restrictive policies, by its failure to understand the real nature of the economic process, was precipitating the world again into 1929. It is to me a relief that in the last few months there has been some indication that the world is drawing back from this, that there is some greater sense now in the economists overseas. 
I hope that when I am in the Senate it will not be too hard for me to get a change in the present Government's policies-I believe it will be returnedbecause overall world policy on which it has been based and of which it is an imitation is now changing. What I want I think will happen by the course of events. I go into the Senate hoping to do something about unfinished business. I am not going to detail it here but from what I have said in this House over nearly 28 years now- honourable members know how many loose ends I hope to ravel up, the things that I want to get done. I go into the Senate with the intention of getting those things done and knowing that I have something still to do and something I can still give to Australia. Tomorrow,  Mr Speaker,  to fresh woods and pastures new. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 5 October 1977: 
Following the passage of certain referenda on 2 1 May 1977 was the Commonwealth Constitution altered in certain respects? 
Is it a fact that no amended copy of the Constitution is yet available from the Australian Government Publishing Service. If so, what is the reason for the delay, and what does the Minister propose to do about it? 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 18 April 1977: 
What elections have been held in trade unions registered under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act since 31 December 1975. 
How many persons were entitled to vote at each of those elections. 
How many votes were recorded at each of those elections. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 4 November 1977: 
Has Qantas withdrawn from the Australia-South Africa route. 
Has South African Airways applied for a second flight per week on the Sydney-Perth-Mauritius-Johannesburg route. 
Has South African Airways also applied for approval of cheap excursion fares on this route. 
What decisions have been made on the South African Airways applications, and what is the reason for each decision. 
