-I move: 
That the following Address-in-Reply to the Speech of  His Excellency  the Governor-General be agreed to: 
May it please Your Excellency 
We, the House of Representatives of the Commonwealth of Australia, in Parliament assembled, desire to express our loyalty to Our Most Gracious Sovereign, and to thank Your  Excellency  for the Speech which you have been pleased to address to Parliament. 
Firstly I congratulate you,  Mr Speaker,  on your re-election as  Speaker-  for the Thirty-first Parliament. It was my privilege to serve you in your former capacity as Leader of the Opposition during the period when you carried out a reconstruction of the policies and organisation of the Liberal Party. That laid the foundation for many of the successes that have been achieved since then. I hope that your present situation of total impartiality will not prevent you from having some pride in that achievement. I also congratulate the honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Millar)  on his election as  Chairman  of Committees. I wish him well in his new role. 
I would also in passing express my appreciation of the work and friendship of and cooperation given to me during many years in my former capacity as General Secretary of the Liberal Party in New South Wales by the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock),  the previous  Deputy Speaker.  This, I think, is indicative of the general spirit of co-operation and friendship that exists between our two parties in New South Wales. Before referring to  His  Excellency's Speech, I wish to say something about my predecessor from the electorate of Mackellar. I regard it as a great honour to succeed the fourth William Charles Wentworth as the second member for Mackellar.  Mr Wentworth  entered this House in the vintage year of 1949 and I believe that he served the Parliament and the Commonwealth with distinction. 
He is a person possessed of a restless and creative mind and he delved not only into all the great issues of our time but also into many of the nooks and crannies that others of us did not think about. His main achievements certainly will be seen in the area of Aboriginal affairs in which his very detailed knowledge and his compassion made him capable of carrying out policies that were at once not condescending and also very practical. He was also a successful Minister for Social Services, in which capacity he exercised great compassion and concern. Of all the things for which I remember him, the main one is that he probably did more than any other Australian to achieve a standard gauge railway system on this continent. Just as his predecessor, his great grandfather, the first William Charles Wentworth, blazed a trail across the Blue Mountains to open up the western plains, so did the fourth William Charles Wentworth blaze a trail around Australia of a standard gauge line for commerce and communication. 
It is interesting to note that his maiden speech in 1949 gave some indication of his power of foresight.  His  speech was devoted to the powers of the Senate and the possible difficulties constitutionally should that House exercise its undoubted capacity to block Supply.  Mr Speaker,  should you be concerned that I might follow too closely in my predecessor's footsteps, I assure you that I will not be quite so creative and innovative in my interpretation of Standing Orders as he was. 
It is customary, I understand, in a maiden speech to refer in glowing terms to one's electorate. I would not want to deprive honourable members of the exquisite boredom of this exercise. Nonetheless, let me say that the electorate of Mackellar is one of stunning natural beauty. It really is a superb place for people to live and for the citizens of Sydney to play. Yet should it be thought that bountiful nature conferred these benefits only on Liberal voters, one has only to look across Broken Bay to the electorate of Robertson to see that they are conferred also on people in Labor seats, albeit after redistribution. The people of Mackellar share the concerns of all the people of Australia. They have individual and collective concerns about which it is my duty to worry, and I will serve all of the people in the electorate to the best of my ability, regardless of their political persuasions. 
Let me turn now to the Speech of  His Excellency  the Governor-General. I am sure that all members of this House will regard the appointment of  Sir Zelman  Cowen as a most felicitous action by  Her  Majesty as Queen of Australia and that they will share the hope that  His Excellency  will be with us for many more such occasions. The intentions of the Government which were outlined in the Speech reflected a continuing concern about the state of our economic management and the twin evils of inflation and unemployment. Indeed any government must be concerned about these two things in order to survive. It is on the latter subject of job opportunities that I want to devote the rest of my speech and I think it is appropriate that it should follow the discussion of the matter of public importance on the general subject of unemployment. 
The last two years have been extraordinarily difficult ones in the area of economic management. Had it not been for the iron will- I say that advisedly- of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  ably supported by the former Treasurer and other Ministers, it would have been impossible to stem the haemorrhage flowing from externally inflicted and some self inflicted economic wounds. I welcome the commitment given in the Speech to build on the substantial progress already made, of which we have had clear evidence in the fall in interest rates and in the fall of inflation below 10 per cent. The fall in interest rates is particularly important as it is the really tangible evidence that the Government's economic policies are working. It will encourage businesses to maintain their staffs and to think about new investment. It makes it possible for consumers to reduce their mortgage interest repayments and to think about extending houses, perhaps buying new ones, or new household items such as furniture and carpets. The fall in interest rates will certainly encourage further employment. The really tangible results of the policy are now beginning to be seen. 
The next pay-off must be in the area of employment. It is here that the Government's critics can score cheap points without necessarily having any coherent alternative program to suggest. I think it is unrealistic to suggest, after following certain economic policies for two years in periods of extraordinary difficulty, that there should be an immediate turnaround the day a new government takes office. I am confident that the Government's economic package will improve the climate of employment this year. However I think we all recognise the longer term task as well as the immediate one. We in Australia share with the Western world the structural problems in patterns of employment. Certainly there are changing patterns which may require basic changes in the structure of our economy and possibly also in our lifestyle in order to get back to the infinitesimal levels of unemployment that we enjoyed before 1972. 
Youth unemployment is a particular concern. I had the very great privilege to attend a meeting addressed by the late  Senator Humphrey  in New 
York in 1976.  Senator Humphrey  had an extraordinary capacity to identify problems, to articulate them and to make people concerned about them. I always felt that he was not quite so good in putting forward precise programs to deal with those problems. I was very moved by his statement about youth unemployment in America, particularly that of young blacks which was in excess of 30 per cent. He stated that unless it was treated as an absolute first priority it could become a cancer within the American community even more damaging than that of Vietnam. We too must treat this problem as a matter of great concern- not just by talking about it, not just by expressing concern, but we must realise that the attitudes of life and work of a whole generation can be distorted if suitable choices of employment are not available to our youth. 
I think it is important to identify some of the separate factors affecting employment opportunities so that we can obtain some idea of the situation we could achieve by good economic management, structural change or a total change in attitude. Some of the problems of unemployment are brought about by more discrimination on the part of those seeking jobs. Higher levels of education have given young people the view that they will accept only certain types of employment. We have to accept that as being a natural outflow not necessarily of more successful education but of more plentifully available education programs. We also note that there are more women in the work force. I do not think this is bad at all, except in cases where women are forced to work when they would rather stay at home. In 1954 some 22.8 per cent of the work force were women; in 1977 the figure was 35.6 per cent. Of course we have had to provide jobs for those women. 
The restructuring of industry has had its effect on the economy. Much of that restructuring in the rural sector had already occurred by 1972 when the former Government left office. Rural employment had fallen from 13.3 per cent of the work force in 1 954 to 7.9 per cent in 1 972. It has fallen slightly further since then, adding to unemployment problems, but the main restructuring in the rural sector occurred before 1972. A more dramatic movement has occurred in manufacturing. In 1954, 27.8 per cent of the work force was in the manufacturing sector, compared with 26 per cent in 1972. There was some fall, which was indicative of a trend. But the 26 per cent of 1972 is translated into 21.5 per cent in 1977. In terms of the total work force, that gives us some idea of where these jobs have gone. 
What were the reasons? Besides the general problem which has been shared by other developed countries of a decline in manufacturing, there were self-inflicted wounds without any doubt. The revaluation of late December 1972 of 7 per cent was one factor; the across-the-board tariff cut of July 1973 of 25 per cent was another. The labour cost increases, particularly in 1974, when wage rates went up by 28 per cent over 1973, put us well above American wage rates, whereas, previously we had held a competitive advantage. No single thing amongst these was responsible for this restructuring. The combined effect of these, together with certain other things that were happening to business, had a profound effect on the structure of our manufacturing industry. A restructuring which may have been spread over a very great number of years, with the possible reintroduction of new jobs in manufacturing industry to replace the old, was rendered impossible and the whole thing was done in a very short time without any replacement. 
Another factor operating at this time was that the cost of employing youth was increased relative to the cost of employing other workers, to the disadvantage of youth. The cost of employing women, to my mind, was rightly increased. It is interesting to see that it had virtually no effect on the employment of women. Industries Assistance Commission inquiries had an extraordinarily damaging psychological effect, supported as they were by the then Government with a great deal of rhetoric which was damaging to business confidence and decision-making. In fact, many industries and companies expired purely because of the extremely adverse reactions to being pilloried in public. The idea of having a draft report which seemed so final and which was generally picked up by others and used to beat the industry concerned had a damaging effect upon the psychology of that industry which I believe was not understood by those who had well-intentioned designs of restructuring the industry. I do not believe it was so much bad intention as a lack of understanding of the decision-making processes of those businesses that were affected. At the same time the Prices Justification Tribunal was set up, new trade practices legislation not wholly in keeping with the requirements of a small market like Australia was being introduced, and there was a great deal of hysteria about multinationals. The combined effect was such as to accentuate the other measures and to bring about a dramatic fall in the manufacturing employment. 
What are the conclusions we draw from this and what are the things we should be looking at? As a member of this House I hope to use some of my past experience in business and the analysis of business undertakings to look at some of these things in greater depth with a longer term future in mind rather than looking at our immediate economic problems. We obviously must accept the damage done by tariff cuts, revaluation and the wage explosion as having occurred. Those events are behind us now. Their effects are not fully behind us. Obviously, we must continue to put forward responsible submissions to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission on wages and keep a restraining hand there. We should consider also possibly changing certain benefits already given. Certain industries, for example, tourism and the hotel industry, have been sorely damaged by silly benefits regarding penalty and overtime rates and the like agreed to in that period. My State colleague in the New South Wales Parliament,  Mr Dowd  last week detailed the loss of employment in the tourist industry due to these benefits which were certainly not in the interests of the workers concerned and certainly not seen by those workers to be in their interests. They were negotiated at higher levels without adequate reference back. 
We need to have a more co-operative and planned approach with industry to have this necessary restructuring. It is awfully important that we do not introduce measures with the wrong psychology that will kill off industries before they have the opportunity to restructure themselves in line with external market requirements. I should also like to see defence production brought more into this equation. We might need to be more adventurous in the kinds of things we buy in Australia and perhaps there should be some cost penalty and some substantial increase in the defence budget as a proportion of the whole. 
We need to welcome the role of women in the work force but we should not necessarily have them there by force. We ought to examine the incentives we could give to women to stay at home. I do not know what the economic implications of this are: I would like to have a look at that. Perhaps we could examine the possibility of a tax reduction for private people in domestic employment, not just for women but for men as well, as a means of expanding employment. We have to accept greater discrimination amongst job seekers as something desirable. Certainly the role of the education system in creating false expectations should be examined and I will certainly be looking at the Williams report with considerable interest when it is available. 
I do not think we should accept that it is impossible to have growth in this day and age. In 
Australia we may be able to have a good growth economy when other countries are relatively static. We are one of the few countries that could consider the option of vastly expanded immigration. It is possible that the net benefits of such immigration would outweigh the difficulties in employing migrants. I would certainly like to see this option looked at carefully. We might also put greater emphasis on Australian rather than foreign investment. Much nonsense is talked in this area and there is much concern about the socalled multinationals and foreign corporations. I have worked overseas in industry. I have worked with American corporations, advised them and observed how they work. I am not frightened of them. It is important for Australians to understand how they work. We are a sovereign nation, we set our own laws, we have our own views about what should be done for us and we will achieve our national objectives more effectively by understanding, by determination and by pushing our own interests rather than by hysteria and lack of understanding. There may well be a need to re-examine the way our capital market operates. It may be necessary for us to sacrifice a great deal of our security of investment in Australia in order to promote more Australian risk investment and perhaps thereby import fewer pieces of equipment from overseas that could be made here. 
Overall, I believe it is necessary for us to have an absolutely creative approach to the new structure of our economy over the next 20 or 30 years and not to assume that we must necessarily be a totally tributary economy of overseas economies. It is necessary for us to look at our own skills. We have in Australia the necessary skills to look at the problem with creativity and imagination. I certainly do not accept that overseas is best. I have worked in places overseas where people did not have anywhere overseas to look and they had to sit down and do things themselves. This is something that some of our best people have done. It is something that nationally more of us should do. Certainly in what is a world problem of youth unemployment and unemployment on a general scale we should have an Australianmade solution which may well lead the world. 
-I welcome the statement by the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  on the containment of health costs. It is a welcome recognition that the problem will be tackled in another way or, we hope, will be freshly tackled this year. It may be a problem which will require further attention in successive years. It is a problem where there is difficulty in separating emotion from fact, not only amongst the conflicting interests involved in the health profession but also amongst the patients themselves. It can always be said with a great deal of force that when somebody is ill they are often in an emotional state. They are not in any position to consider costs effectively. They are in a very weak position in relation to the suppliers of health services, and there is also an understandable need on the part of parents and children or relatives and friends to provide for the person who is sick the best possible attention without immediate regard to the cost. If we continue that view through the whole of the management of our health services we run into considerable difficulty. Therefore, there is the unhappy acknowledgement I think we all approach this conclusion very reluctantly- that there must be some containment of costs at the point of ordering of each service so that there is some concern for the cost of that service. 
That is an awfully simple thing to say in the relative calm of this chamber, but it is an awfully difficult thing to apply at the time of an illness or an accident. Nonetheless I think we must look the problem in the eye. The Minister's statement makes it quite clear that this Government already has begun to tackle this problem in a very substantial way. Whilst the proportion of our gross domestic product being devoted to health services has increased substantially over recent years, there is some indication that a halt already has been called to the rapid expansion of that as a percentage of the gross domestic product. The Government certainly has a responsibility to ensure that we get value for money spent. Every health dollar spent must be spent wisely. We must balance the conflicting claims of efficiency in the provision of health services and the social equity which we must, as a matter of policy, apply to the whole area. 
Despite Government action to date, there are still pretty severe problems in the whole health area. I think it is fair to acknowledge within this chamber that some of them go back a very long way. Very many of them were introduced as fresh problems during the period of administration of the present Opposition, but I think it is fair to acknowledge that some of the difficulties go back to the original health schemes introduced in the early 1950s. I think the present Minister for Health in his approach to these problems is certainly mindful of the fact that it is a very complicated area and it will be difficult to get the best possible solution. Once we have a solution proposed not everybody will like it. 
What are these pretty severe problems in the whole system? Firstly, there are certainly declining marginal benefits from additional expenditure. From looking at the vast increase in health costs over the last seven or eight years as a percentage of the gross domestic product, it is hard to say or to produce evidence that there has been any substantial improvement in the health of Australians. There have been vast increases in expenditure and no clear evidence of improved health. Also, there are no agreed measures of the effectiveness of health services. R. B. Scotton, writing in the  Australian Quarterly  of June 1 977, said: 
The conceptual and practical difficulties involved in output measurement are such that it is most unlikely that, for health services as a whole, broad policy choices can ever be based on firm calculations of costs and benefits. 
However far we go into this subject we will be left with making certain rough and crude judgments based on the evidence at the time and without looking forward to that oasis or that mirage of effective measurement of benefits. 
Just to make things difficult, there are also what I believe to be corrupting- I do not say corrupt'- influences within the existing system. Under the present financing arrangements for health costs, patients often do not give any more real attention to the expenditure of, say, $9 on the provision of professional services for themselves or their children than they would give to spending $9 on going to a McDonald's restaurant with the family for an evening meal rather than having it at home. This is an unfortunate thing, because the provision of health services for a family is one of the most serious expenditures that any family should approach. 
The future need as regards health services is something that each family should sit down and think about in a very responsible manner. 
Under the arrangements which have built up over the last few years, it is possible in many circumstances for people to approach this situation without any regard, literally, for the cost. That, I say, is a corrupting influence. It leads to an attitude of mind which inevitably means a more expensive health service and in many respects a less effective one. We also see these corrupting influences within the professions. I have no doubt that there are many instances where people go out of their way to abuse the system. These abuses are the subject of continuing inquiry by the Government and its agencies. There are unfortunate examples of people being charged with offences and so on. I am sure that these apply in only a minority of cases and, of course, they have to be tackled. 
More important than those studied abuses are the ones which arise out of the corrupting influences of the system. I submit that each time a doctor decides that pathological tests or tests of some other kind are necessary for a patient or that some reference to a specialist who provides a fairly expensive service is necessary, there is a corrupting influence at work if virtually no financial restraint is placed on the making of that decision. Over a long period this gradually produces a rot in the system which leads to unnecessary expenditures and also to those services not being valued in the way that they should be. 
Aspects of the system which lead to this kind of treatment are the bulk billing provisions, which, except in the case of pensioners, are very damaging and difficult aspects of the present system, and referrals, where there is a maximum gap of only $5 to be paid by the patient and where, in effect, the general practitioner can refer people to a specialist without any real concern for the cost of the professional service. A multiplicity of tests can be asked for. That presents particular difficulties in the hospital area. Doctors resident in a hospital or visiting specialists have a capacity to order, virtually without any control by the patient or external agencies, a wide variety of services of enormous cost. I do not have the time to cite individual cases this afternoon, but if one examines the performances in different hospitals one is surprised by the incredible variation one sees in the cost per patient for relatively similar diseases and conditions just because of the differing ordering patterns of the staff within those hospitals. 
Hospitalisation in itself also can be part of this corrupting influence. The very fact that hospital beds are available seems to be one of the main determinants of their use. If we examine the comparative figures for the States- we find these in the Sax report that is before us for discussionwe find that in Victoria the number of hospital beds per head of population is substantially less than the number of hospital beds per head of population in the other States. There is no evidence that I have been able to find, and I have searched for it, of any increased rate of mortality or morbidity within the State of Victoria as a result of fewer hospital beds being available per head of population. In Queensland the cost per head of population of hospital accommodation is less than that in any other State. I think that it is the lowest. Victoria is the next up the scale, and the other States are substantially above that. Yet, with the exception of certain isolated and Aboriginal communities in Queensland, there is no evidence of any greater morbidity or mortality rates there as a result of there being a lower cost per head of population for hospital beds. 
All these influences within the present system, where there is very little immediate control over the incurring of public costs and also over the private costs of insured patients, are leading to a system in which the professions themselves can be corrupted. Unfortunately they begin to be corrupted not only in the undue expenditure of moneys but also in their approach to their professional tasks. I recognise that in some instances there are very grave difficulties and that it is not possible in a legal sense for people to be too careful in this regard. For example, in casualty departments of hospitals at weekends junior members of the medical profession usually have to deal in turn with cases that are, to put it bluntly, quite undeserving and cases of accident or immediate concern. There is a necessity for those junior staff to cover themselves legally, often by referring pretty well every patient to a specialist, at some considerable cost to the public purse and also to private insurance. Perhaps that problem can be looked at more carefully because that procedure as it is commonly adopted in casualty departments leads to quite excessive expenditure on unnecessary specialist treatment. In general the problems of referrals and of corrupting influences has to be examined from a cost point of view. I believe that a closer look at costs by those ordering the services also will lead to a better professional approach within the purely professional context. 
What are the major costs about which we are concerned? As far as I can make out from the figures provided by the Minister for Health from the Australian Bureau of Statistics for costs incurred by the nation in 1976-77, about $5,800m was involved. Of that total some $3,380m was incurred as institutional costs and, of course, the biggest amount, $2,540m, was incurred in general hospitals. Non-institutional costs which would include for the most part medical and dental services, amounted to about $2 billion. Other smaller amounts made up the total of nearly $6,000m. How can we do something about each of these areas? With institutional costs in the short term maybe all we can do is to clamp down budget-wise on the institutions themselves and try to force them to allocate their available dollars in a more satisfactory way. In the longer term we have to look carefully at the number of beds available and see whether we should be providing additional beds irrespective of the need as it is determined area by area. 
With reference to medical expenses, I think we have to look once again at the gap and see whether there should be any insurance for the gap. Also I think we have to look at the elimination of bulk billing and the Medibank ceiling. I believe that people in higher income groups should be forced to insure privately. We should look at the percentage of each account paid by the patient,. These are very difficult problems. I would have liked to have available more time in which to speak about them in detail but I hope that the Minister will look at them as we approach the Budget considerations. 
Is the Treasurer aware that many military officers believe that their entitlement to receive four years' pension in a lump sum taxed at the 5 per cent rate will be removed at the next Budget, leaving them the alternatives of accepting the lump sum taxed as one year's income or reverting to the annual pension payments without lump sum payment? Can the Treasurer remove the danger of a rash of preBudget retirements from the armed Services by assuring the House that the Government has no intention of changing the present arrangement? 
I draw attention to a scandalous situation brought about by the decision of the New South Wales Government to sell off land acquired by the previous Liberal-Country Party coalition government for the purpose of constructing freeways in the metropolitan area of Sydney. Accused, quite correctly, of making the future construction of freeways virtually impossible by selling off the land acquired, the New South Wales Minister for Transport,  Mr Cox,  has sought to excuse himself and the Labor Government by saying that the greatest proportion of property acquired for any single freeway was for the Warringah Expressway. According to New South Wales Government sources- that means  Mr Cox-  quoted in the  Sun-Herald  of last Sunday 'the north shore freeway plan had been pushed ahead to please supporters in the coalition's electorates there, while areas with the greatest need in the western and southern suburbs were neglected'. According to the same source, 5 1 1 properties in that area were affected and 242 or 47.4 per cent were purchased. They are now being sold and the citizens of the Manly- Warringah area will be deprived of adequate transport for years to come. 
What a strange inversion of argument to defend an indefensible policy by drawing attention to the biggest crime of all, that is this irreversible sellout of the rights not only of the citizens of Manly- Warringah but also of the countless thousands of Sydneysiders from all over the metropolitan area who travel to the northern beaches and waters for their recreation. Unlike the other areas of Sydney referred to by  Mr Cox  as having greater transport problems than ManlyWarringah, this area has no railway system whatsoever and is therefore wholly dependent on road and water transport. After the Sydney Harbour Bridge there are only three approaches to Manly- Warringah by road- the Spit Bridge, the Roseville Bridge and the Mona Vale road. All three are well beyond saturation point at peak hours and on wet days even the slightest accident can delay traffic for hours, and I mean literally hours. 
This area was almost half-way towards acquiring the necessary land for an expressway through a new route when the Labor Government took office in May 1976. Following a doctrinaire, pseudo-conservationist line the Labor Government declared all inner freeways black and proceeded to sell off the land. It is no use saying that people can travel by public transport. The only public transport is buses or ferries connecting with buses. A railway would be too expensive for such an area. As it is, the people of ManlyWarringah are condemned to the pollution and anti-conservationism of stalled traffic until some future government confronts the hideous expenditure required to correct this ghastly mistake. The Federal Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  recently condemned the road spending priorities of the Labor Government of New South Wales. Never was a major policy decision so richly deserving of condemnation. It is a decision that will return to haunt the Labor Government and drastically shorten its period of office. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Riverina) ( 10.38)- I raise tonight a matter that is causing a great deal of concern in isolated country areas in New South Wales. It is a matter which, if not handled with some consideration, I consider will cause irreparable damage to the position in life of thousands of young Australians. I refer to the fact that since mid-February officers of the Taxation Office have been assessing the rental value of teacher housing assistance properties with the intention of collecting tax on the difference between the rent teachers pay and the market rental value as assessed by the taxation officers. Many teachers in my electorate have been visited by these taxation officers. The teachers have been informed that section 26E of the Income Tax (Assessment) Act requires the inclusion in a taxpayer's assessable income of the value to him of all benefits given or granted in relation to his employment or other services rendered by him, whether given in money, goods, the use of premises or otherwise. That, of course, means that the teachers will have to pay tax on the difference between the market value of the rented homes and the actual amount they are paying. Many people will ask: What is wrong with this?' Most members of Parliament at some time or other have handled problems connected with this section of the Income Assessment Act. I myself have had many problems to handle in respect of mine employees who had been given shares at below the market value in the mining company employing them. But I believe that the situation in which teacher housing assistance rentals are below market value is a different consideration altogether. 
Many of these houses are provided in high cost isolated areas to encourage teachers to remain. Often they are provided as compensation for the loss involved in a teacher moving from a home in a larger town or city. Often this move involves the teacher living away from his own family. The son or daughter of a teacher may require education that is not available in a small isolated town. The son of a teacher might be serving an apprenticeship or some other problem along these lines may exist. 
Teachers living in more desirable locations in a city or town should be prepared to pay the same rent as people who live in private accommodation. But the legislation should not apply in western New South Wales because at present it is hard to obtain experienced teachers who are needed for the education of children in these areas. This method of assessment if continued will tend to deplete further the western regions of their already short teaching staff. It must be remembered that teachers in these regions cannot opt to purchase or build homes as is the case in larger cities or towns. The resale prospects for properties in isolated areas is almost hopeless. 
Certainly people who build properties in isolated areas do so at a very high financial risk. Of course, this is not the case in larger towns or cities where the purchase of a property is often considered to be a good investment. As a consequence country towns have an under-supply of homes which of course drives up the rent. However, the taxation valuer does not seem to be inclined to consider these things. He just says it is his duty to assess the market value as it exists and applies in a town. He assesses the difference in what the teacher is paying in rent and the market value of the house. 
I am sure that the Schools Commission would wholeheartedly agree that without acceptable teacher accommodation and some assistance in respect of rent education for the western division children will suffer. I can assure the House that this is already a big problem. I ask the Government and particularly the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  to give every consideration to seeing that a commonsense solution is found to the problem. 
My question is addressed to you,  Mr Speaker,  under Standing Order 152. It relates to the area of your administration covered by Standing Order 33, that is, the seating of members in this House. Have you had any indication regarding the possible necessity of reallocating the seat in the House now occupied by the honourable member for Werriwa? If so, could you inform the House so that it might take appropriate note of any forthcoming change while the honourable member concerned is still with us? 
-I had not intended to speak in the adjournment debate until I had heard the speech by the honourable member for Batman  (Mr Howe).  I would like to make my own views clear to the House: I regard it as a disgraceful performance, especially considering the views just expressed by the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Birney)  as to a newspaper article which appeared this morning. I support the view that it was a grossly misleading heading and that there was grossly misleading material within the body of the article. I condemn the action of the honourable member for Batman. The Minister has quite clearly guaranteed to honourable members that he will carry out a full investigation of this matter- not an unduly short one but one which will determine all the facts- and come back in a reasonable time to the House with those facts. I think it is unfair that the honourable member for Batman should examine and canvass the matter further so that it may possibly again be reported in tomorrow's Press. 
Had the honourable member for Phillip not specifically drawn attention to this morning's very badly headlined article in the  Sydney Morning Herald,  I would not have felt this way about it. Honourable members opposite had every opportunity to ask questions, quite properly, in the House this morning and the Minister has, quite properly, said that he will investigate these matters and report back to the House. I do not think honourable members opposite would describe the Minister concerned as one who would treat the matter lightly. The Minister himself said that it was a serious allegation and he would look into it. I would therefore hope that those gentlemen of the Press who have witnessed this particular incident would, in reporting these matters in tomorrow's Press, take into account the information that was brought before the House by the honourable member for Phillip and thus disregard the further canvassing of this matter for the honourable member for Batman. I hope they will wait until the Minister comes back with a responsible explanation to this House. 

 -Mr Chairman - 
I am indebted to the honourable member for Grayndler for drawing my attention to the fact that the previous  speaker,  his colleague the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes),  was not speaking to the clause in question. 
-Thank you,  Mr Chairman.  In my view, it has been correct for honourable members on our side of the chamber to agonise over the principle of retrospectivity. The contributions to the debate by the right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon),  the honourable members for Denison  (Mr Hodgman),  Wilmot  (Mr Burr),  Perth  (Mr McLean)  and Ballarat  (Mr Short)  and others have testified to the very grave concern on our side on this principle. Therefore the principle should be examined very carefully. But matters of principle, whilst in history having brought about the most honourable and uplifting acts of mankind, have also been responsible for people being burned at the stake. Matters of principle have to be examined very carefully. I think that matters of definition of principle are quite critical on occasions such as this. 
Matters of precedent have been brought to our attention by the legal members on both sides of the chamber. As somebody who is not skilled in the law or in matters of accountancy, I can approach this question only as a member of this parliament. 
If the honourable member for Grayndler were to listen for a moment he would find that I have a great deal of sympathy for the views which I am sure he espouses on this clause. There is a very great distinction between the role of the law and the role of the Parliament. Precedent may, as the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  pointed out, have a certain meaning in the law. Precedent has a different meaning in politics. Politics is the area where all those matters which cannot be resolved by strict logic, or by the application of professional skill, or by business or by other fields of endeavour must be resolved. It is the area where the unresolvable must be resolved. 
Over the last month we have been subjected to a very strong campaign of persuasion on this question of retrospectivity. I must confess that when I first heard of the proposals put forward by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  I had grave concern about this matter of retrospectivity as regards the Curran schemes. The sum total of my feeling as a parliamentarian, not as a lawyer, on this question over that month is that the unprincipled have been trading on the principles of the honourable. I believe that the balance of parliamentary justice is in favour of what the Government is doing. Our behaviour as citizens is not governed solely by the law: It is governed by principles of self-applied decency; it is governed by principles of restraint. These principles are the ones that hold our community together. The principles of this community will be upheld by those citizens who decide for themselves what is right and who do not examine legislation in a way which seeks to find the loopholes, who do not examine legislation which has a clear intent to us, the citizens of this country, to give their fair share of the costs of this country or who examine it in a way which will enable them to get away from paying that share. That, to me, is not elementary justice; it is behaviour which is not governed by the law as one sees the law as applying to oneself. 
What penalties will flow from the Government's action in this case? If the people who have taken advantage of these schemes from the date that has been specified by the Treasurer were to suffer criminal penalties, I would be gravely concerned. But they do not. All that happens to them is that they will suffer a disallowance of schemes which they entered into, knowing them to be against the absolute spirit of all the Acts we have ever passed in the Parliament on the subject of taxation. They knew it at the time and the only penalty they will suffer now is that their schemes will be disallowed. They hardly suffer any financial penalty. But what penalty will the citizens of Australia suffer? The citizens of Australia will suffer only from this problem of precedent. 
I think the right honourable member for Lowe has argued his case extremely well. On our side of the chamber there is a grave worry about precedent. I believe that the contribution to the debate of the right honourable member for Lowe and of his colleagues will have dulled the political precedent which is the only one we have to worry about. As for legal precedents, they are the ones which judges look up on the basis of case history or in respect of statutes which we have placed on the statute books. We are making a political decision and the sum total of my feeling over a month of argument and a month of pressures is that the elementary justice lies in favour of the Government. Tonight I will be voting on this particular clause on the side of the Treasurer. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Has the Prime Minister seen a report of the meeting held by the Sydney Chamber of Commerce on 22 May 1978 at which it was claimed by a guest speaker that any government can bring down inflation quickly and by almost any amount it cares to name? Does the Government agree with this view? Also, does the Prime Minister believe that it is time for the fight against inflation to be relaxed? 
-Has the Minister for Transport received any new approaches from the New South Wales Government for assistance with the funding of urban freeways in Sydney? 
-Thank you  Mr Deputy Speaker. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I am sorry that I perhaps, overshadowed the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris).  I did not observe that he was standing at the table. I apologise for having almost usurped his right to speak. I think that this evening, when we are all about to depart until the Budget session commences, there should be a certain measure of goodwill in what is said in this House. Therefore I am able to make a small acknowledgment in relation to a matter I raised on an adjournment debate about two months ago. At that time I raised a matter which was of great concern to my electorate of Mackellar- the question of the provision of adequate transport into the electorate. I drew the attention of the House to what I thought was a very bad decision by the New South Wales Labor Government to stop the construction of all inner urban freeways within the city of Sydney. 
Unfortunately that decision still stands but I am happy to report to the House that there has been some small concession on the part of the New South Wales Government in that with regard to the area in which the State Government had purchased over 40 per cent of the properties necessary to construct an adequate freeway- the Warringah Expressway- into the electorate of Mackellar, it has now reversed its decision to sell that land. Had it sold that land, it would have been an irrevocable decision. It would have been impossible for future Liberal governments within the State of New South Wales to construct adequate transport facilities into the electorate. This is a concession not wrung easily from the Premier of New South Wales. In fact it required quite a considerable publicity effort and a meeting of and a visitation from mayors and presidents of the municipalities and shires within the northern region. They were able to prevail, I am happy to say, on the New South Wales Government and stop it from selling off this land. Unfortunately, the Minister for what passes for transport in New South Wales,  Mr Cox,  has made a statement that although the land will not now be sold there is no positive plan as to what will be done with it. An investigation will now be held to decide what is the next step. 
I suggest that the New South Wales Government has to face up to the fact that in Australia, with an urban and suburban population which is rather spread out and where the economics of public transport are generally bad, it is essential to provide adequate facilities for private motoring. Private motoring, whether by petrol engines, diesel engines or electric engines in the future, will stay with us for very many decades. I believe that it is totally short-sighted of the New South Wales Government to deny this proposition. Within the electorate of Mackellar- in fact, within the whole of the shire of Warringahthere are only three avenues from Sydney, via the Mona Vale Road, the Roseville Bridge or the Spit Bridge. There is no train service, nor is there any likelihood of any railway ever being built because the economics of railways do not apply to the sparse population of that area. Therefore, there is a pressing need for the New South Wales Government to make forward provision for roads which will provide the necessary space for the number of vehicles that will carry people into that area. 
The population of Australia is not growing at the rate we previously thought it was growing at. The recent statement by the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  has made that clear, at least over the next triennium. Therefore, there is not that overwhelming fear that we will be totally inundated with the motor car. As a matter of practical economics, we have to face up to the fact that adequate expressways must be provided within our major cities. They must certainly be a matter of immediate policy concern within Sydney for the New South Wales Government. 
-Can the Prime Minister indicate to the House the financial contribution made by the Commonwealth Government to the recent New South Wales Budget? 
I ask the Minister for Industry and Commerce: Can he provide details of trends in investment by manufacturing industry contained in the recent survey conducted by his Department? In particular, can the Minister give any information about prospects for manufacturing investment for particular States on a per capita basis? 
I thought it would be appropriate if I mentioned that tonight I had the privilege of serving on one of the first two legislation committees. I thought it would be worth mentioning in the House at the earliest opportunity that it was a most worthwhile experience and that the kind of debate and discussion which is possible on a measure in such committees is the kind that perhaps we could see more of in the Committee of" the Whole House. It was possible for members of the Parliament to sit around a table without regard to party affiliation- the parties did not sit on opposite sides of the table- and it was possible during the discussion on the Bill to question the Minister in some detail. It was also possible for members of the Committee who had a particular expertise to add their explanations to what the Minister had to say. 
It was even possible- I give this as an example of the much more civilised attitude that prevailed within the committee- for a member of one party  to indicate,  in the kindest possible way, to a member of another party that that member was actually looking at the wrong document, and nobody took advantage of that situation. That is the kind of behaviour- a civilised consideration of a measure- that I, as a relatively new member of this House, would like to see more of in this chamber. I felt that I should make that comment immediately following the first meeting of such a committee. I pay great tribute to the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins),  who chaired the committee which I attended, for his excellent chairmanship. I also pay tribute to the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde),  who did so much in the development of the idea of the legislation committees. 
-We are dealing with the estimates for three departments- the Department of Industry and Commerce, the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs and the Department of Productivity. These departments have a profound contribution to make in the solution of the greatest single domestic problem faced by Australia- in this I agree with the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  unemployment. I disagree with the honourable member opposite about whether these departments are doing anything about the subject in a constructive way. The origins of the problem of unemployment in particular, of people looking for their first jobs, and a realistic assessment of its future extent were canvassed in the House by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  in his most significant statement on 14 September last. I certainly welcome the Minister's statement as an essential component of our understanding of the problem and as a necessary step towards a national consensus on a strategy to regain full employment. 
The Federal constitution of the Liberal Party of Australia, agreed at the foundation of the Party in 1945 and still in force, includes this objective: 
To have an Australian nation ... in which constant employment at good wages is available to all willing and able to work. 
Throughout the years of Liberal government from 1949 to 1972 that objective was met. It remains the objective of the Liberal Party in its second period of office since 1975 to restore once again a situation where jobs are available to those willing and able to work. Most of the public debate on this subject has been in the areas of fiscal and wages policy. This is not surprising as the three Liberal Budgets of 1976, 1977 and now in 1978 have had to be concerned with reducing inflation and interest rates and re-establishing a stable climate for individual security and business planning and investment. Whilst this difficult task is necessary to solve the problem, it has never been seen by the Government as sufficient in itself. With much less public controversy the Government, through these three industrial departments, has been facing up to the need for Australian industry to change from a relatively sheltered domestic industry to one with a world outlook. 
Our great extractive industries and most of our rural industries have always had to operate in world markets. It is now the turn of Australian manufacturing and service industries to do the same. As one who has spent most of his working life in business enterprises both here and overseas I am confident that we have the capacity to bring about the necessary change and succeed. Provided we concentrate on the things we can do best, on our natural assets and on the skills and energy of our highly educated population, we can transform our industries and capture world markets. Only a small extra percentage of a large world market can provide many jobs and much added prosperity for a country small in numbers such as ours. 
In this task the management of technology will be our friend, not our enemy. Technology is a tool. It is a slave, not a master. It is up to management, both in business and in the public sector, to ensure that technology benefits mankind. Technology must be harnessed to eliminate drudgery, to provide jobs that are more interesting and to add to our leisure. The application of technology will add to unemployment only if we fail to share out equitably the work that remains. This kind of adjustment has been going on since the Industrial Revolution, and despite some recent hysteria there is no reason why we cannot sensibly agree on ways of sharing the work and the benefits of the particular kinds of technological advance available to us now. I personally applaud the way in which the Government is approaching the problem of industrial change. 
Unlike the Labor Government, which plunged into sudden across-the-board changes in tariffs and exchange rates, causing disruption in certain industries, this Government has given the most affected industries, such as textiles, clothing and footwear, a breathing space in which to adjust. Through the Department of Productivity the Government also has established three-way working parties consisting of employer, union and the Government representatives to examine in an atmosphere of confidentiality and cooperation, not in a political climate, ways in which such industries can be updated to meet Australia's particular needs. On a totally nonpolitical basis the Department of Productivity, in addition, has set up various forms of assistance and advice to businesses, large and small, to enable them to improve their efficiency, their safety, their marketing capacity and ultimately their ability to grow and provide more employment. 
I also pay tribute to those trade union officials who have given of their time and energy to improve these programs. In the limited time I have available I cannot describe the programs, but I can assure honourable members that if they care to examine the range of practical handbooks for business they will be astonished at the degree of help provided by the Department of Productivity, an extremely energetic and imaginative department. It does not attempt to operate in a political manner but attempts to promote innovation and bring about enduring benefits for Australian industry. It has already been busy since its establishment by this Government looking into the real problems of technological change, well before the recent burst of interest in the subject in the Press. Although the cumulative effect of most of these productivity programs is substantial, they apply to individual businesses or industries. 
On a broader scale, the Government is tackling systematically the underlying problems of industry and the work force. Professor Bruce Williams is to report shortly on the role of our education systems in equipping people for work.  Sir John  Crawford is about to report on the best way to assist the restructuring of manufacturing industry. Both those studies are of fundamental importance and will give industry, educational establishments and governments, both Federal and State, clear guidelines for immediate action. In the meantime, the drive for innovation in manufacturing industry and its orientation towards world markets will be boosted by the increase in industrial research and development grants from $13.7m last year to $24m this year, and by the increase from $30m to $38m in the export incentives under the new and more effective export market development grant scheme. 
I do not have time to detail all the programs established by the Government in its determination to help industry undergo its painful problems of readjustment and grasp the new opportunities of domestic and export markets. All this work, which is going on quietly behind the scenes without political clamour or rancour, shows how Liberal Ministers get on with the job and express their practical concern for those seeking jobs now and in the years ahead. 
I draw to the attention of the House tonight the speech made by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  to the annual conference of the Local Government Association of New South Wales. For some time I have been looking at these speeches made by the Leader of the Opposition to various gatherings. I thought it might be useful, over a period, just to draw the attention of people to the things that he might say because by the time we get round to holding another election, an edition of the various undertakings made by him might be of some interest to the voters of this nation. The ladies and gentlemen of local government are fairly hard-headed people and know exactly what balancing a budget is all about and they are not likely to be taken in by some of the nonsense that is included in the speech of the Leader of the Opposition. I quote directly from the Leader of the Opposition, who said: 
In 1973, direct financial support was provided for local government in the national Budget as part of a firm, coherent and expanding program. 
It certainly was expanding. In 1973 the increase in Budget outlays over the previous year was some 20 per cent and in the following year the increase was 45.9 per cent over the outlays for 1 973-74. 1 seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a small table of increases over this period. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="111131197810194_95_13.jpg"></graphic>

I thank the House. Having made this statement about the firm, coherent and expanding program, the Leader of the Opposition in fact said that he had some regrets. He said that the initiatives the Labor Government took in providing grants to local government through the Grants Commission on a needs basis was not a good initiative. He has decided, it seems, in the future to avoid this mistake and to give a basic grant with a topping-up provision. That is an interesting admission. The situation that occurred during the Labor Government's term of office led to all sorts of difficulty in local government. Later in his speech to this same body the Leader of the Opposition said:  . . local government is better able to assess community needs than Canberra bureaucrats . . . there is no co-ordination between the various funding agencies ... to gain a grant under the present system it is the articulate rather than the deserving who do best at the expense of the less articulate . . . and, of course, the system is wide open to pork barrelling or, if you prefer, political patronage. 
I would say that that is an absolutely correct description of what happened under the Labor Government's approach to local government. We are now to believe that the Leader of the Opposition is to take up the present policy of this Government on local government. The difficulty is that by the way he was .talking to this body he seemed to be indicating that there will be a vast expansion of revenues not related to a percentage of Federal tax revenues but on a generally increasing base. He seems to hold out.on the one hand to the representatives of local government that they will get a great deal more money and yet at other meetings and gatherings where he is speaking to taxpayers and ratepayers he indicates that somehow or other they will pay less rates and taxes than they would under the present Government. 
He criticises the present Government for giving to local government in direct grants under the present formula an increase of only 8.5 per cent over the previous year. The increase of approximately 8.5 per cent is greater by far than the estimated increase in prices over the year and it therefore represents a real increase to local government. It is also only part of the Government's commitment to increase the funding of local government to 2 per cent of tax revenues. Yet this 8.5 per cent increase is considered by the Leader of the Opposition to be insufficient, and implied in his speech is a promise of a great increase to local government independently of taxation revenues to the Commonwealth. The speech should be examined carefully together with other speeches by the Leader of the Opposition over the forthcoming two years. I give notice that I will be watching these carefully and adding up the promises as time passes so that each of the audiences addressed by the honourable gentleman will know exactly what to expect at the end of this period. 
-On Tuesday, 24 October, during the adjournment debate the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  raised as a matter of concern various reports on the Australian Broadcasting Commission about the formation of a so-called Ku Klux Klan in the Northern Territory. In that speech he referred to the story in the Press. I understand that in the Press it is called a 'beat up', that is, something peculiar happens and then a major matter is made of it. It is the sort of thing that usually happens in the Northern Territory in January, I understand, but there must have been a dull week as it was reported this week. After having drawn the attention of the House to this matter during the adjournment debate, the honourable member for Prospect was interviewed yesterday on the  AM  program. I have gone to the trouble of getting a transcript from the Parliamentary Library of what was said. Like the honourable member for Prospect, I am not one of these persons who go around criticising the so-called media. The term 'media' is used in the pejorative sense. When somebody wants to criticise the ladies and gentlemen of the Press they usually say that the media do this or they do that. I like to use the word 'Press' even though it is not strictly correct in terms of radio and television or what they call the wireless these days. 
I think what really upset me was what happened after the honourable member had corrected the story. He had made it clear that the gentleman appeared in the ABC's studios in Darwin wearing a sheet or whatever. I may be mistaken, but, in addition to the  AM  and  PM  programs on which this story was covered, I believe I heard it as a lead item on the ABC news. I may be mistaken on that, but that is my pretty clear impression. I have not been able to get a transcript of the ABC's news broadcasts over the last few days. When I heard a lead item on the news about the Ku Klux Klan being in Australia and having something like 170 members I was very gravely disturbed, as I think any reasonable citizen would be. The honourable member for Prospect exposed the story, to my mind, beyond refutation in his speech on the adjournment. The following morning I believe he did so also on the  AM  program. I quote from towards the end of the interview: 
Geoff Duncan: Wasn't it fair enough for the ABC though to record the comments of somebody overseas in America and run that as a story, a man who made claims? 

 Dr Klugman: No because that's exactly what a beat up story is, you start off with an untruth and you get somebody else to comment on that untruth. 
Geoff Duncan: You're saying it wasn't checked out properly? 

 Dr Klugman: It wasn't checked out at all. Not only not checked. Now it's wrong of the reporter to do that and I think it is wrong of the people who are in charge of that program. They have some responsibility towards the public. 
By the end of that time, having known of the adjournment speech and of this interview, and having heard the report myself, I was totally convinced that the matter was utterly at rest. However, the person who has the major power in these matters, who is the compere of the program and who had been involved in previous reports on it, said this: 
Kel Richards: It should perhaps be pointed out that in connection with this so-called untrue story a Northern Territory police constable is today facing five departmental charges. 
We go on to the next story. The clear impression given to all the people listening to the program who had not heard what had gone on before and did not know what the learned doctor had said during the adjournment debate, would be that somebody was being charged in connection with this serious allegation of a widespread organisation. It was meant to be misleading. It is quite clearly wrong and it is using a particular power of the compere of a program to mislead in a way which I believe is quite serious. I do not often become upset about these things because I have been involved in the organisational side of politics for a long time. I also have a very clear understanding of the way in which the Press has to work. The members of the Press work under extreme pressures and have great difficulty in getting things to air or into Press at the right time. When something has been very clearly aired and is then presented in a totally misleading fashion, I think it is important to draw it to the attention of as wide an audience as possible. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. What is his reaction to last week's call by the  Chairman  of David Jones Ltd,  Mr Charles  Lloyd Jones, for a review of penalty rates for weekend work in service industries? Is there any way in which the Government could assist in changing a situation that deprives willing workers of jobs and willing customers of the opportunity to purchase goods and services over weekends? 
The honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  was surprised that the Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee)  was reasonable. The honourable member for Burke attempted, as have so many speakers on the other side of the House since I entered this Parliament earlier this year, to draw a distinction between the policies and character of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and those of his Ministers. Honourable members have tried to draw a distinction between this Minister and his ministerial colleagues and this Minister and back benchers. I have been a bit confused by all this because the demonology does not seem to ring true. The Minister for Productivity was appointed by the Prime Minister. A new department was set up by the Prime Minister to assist industry with the specific intention of working in the area of technological change. That department has been one of the great successes of the Fraser ministry. I think therefore that it is unreal for members of the Opposition to continue trying to draw a distinction between the Prime Minister and other Ministers. 
Similarly, the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  tried to draw a distinction between the Prime Minister's approach to employment and unemployment and the approach of the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street).  That too is an absolute nonsense. The Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations was appointed by the Prime Minister. He has the full confidence of the Prime Minister. The statement that he made in the House was made with the agreement and approval of the Prime Minister. In fact the Prime Minister has made a number of statements along the same lines. 
Let me get on to the question of the way the back benchers feel about these things and the attempt to make some distinction between the approach taken by the Minister for Productivity and the various members of the Liberal Party back bench. I have sat in this Parliament week in and week out this year and heard from members on the Opposition side what beasts the Liberal Party and National Country Party back benchers are for having absolutely no concern about the problem of unemployment. I have been told day in and day out that back benchers on this side of the House classify the unemployed as dole bludgers. It would be remarkable indeed if this were the fact and I had not heard the term mentioned even once in the joint parties party room or bandied about in general conversation amongst coalition back benchers. It has been my experience since being in the Parliament that the term 'dole bludgers' has been reserved for use in debate by members of the Opposition. It has been duly reported in the Press. A great mythology has built up about the views of members on this side of the House on the problems of the unemployed. Having paid close attention to the debates in this House since I have been a member and to what was reported in the Press before I entered Parliament, I have not found this view amongst Government Ministers and back benchers. In fact I have found a very grave concern amongst all of them about the very real human problems of unemployment. Not only that; I have found a more practical concern. 
The honourable member for Port Adelaide, who has been most voluble on this subject in the House, seems to have discovered word processing. He is one of the most efficient word processors in the House. If the intention of word processing is to save labour costs, it certainly seems to save him the cost of the labour of looking at the question in a comprehensive fashion. He talked about the unemployment blitzkrieg of the Fraser ministry. I point out more in sorrow than in anger that if there were any blitzkrieg on employment by any government it was what I would refer to as the eight panzer divisions thrust into manufacturing industry during the period the Labor Government was in office. I am not saying this by way of combat in debate. I think the debate has been conducted reasonably. I have to refer to the eight major policies pursued by the Labor Party when it was in government as a direct result of which over 58,000 jobs per annum have been lost in manufacturing industry since 1974. That is a very severe blitzkrieg against employment in one area of industry. I am certainly not claiming, because I know far too much about manufacturing industry, that all was well in manufacturing industry at the end of 1972. The industry was facing great problems of adjustment. Certainly, down the line a bit, a number of external factors had to be worried about post- 1974, which would have occurred under any government. But these eight things did not have to occur. I list them as follows: 
The upvaluation of the dollar in late 1972-73. 
The across-the-board tariff cuts of 25 per cent in July 1973. 
The increases in interest rates in the 1973 credit squeeze. 
The removal of investment allowances in 1973. 
The removal of export incentives in 1 973. 
The massive wage increases which were led by the Government through the Public Service in 1974. 
The emotional attacks by a number of Ministers on foreign investment and foreign management. 
The vast increases in government expenditure which in general did not improve employment in the private sector. 
These were the eight major acts of policy which were felt most in the industries which were least competitive against imports. It is very hard to find anybody in the clothing, textile and footwear industries who is not grateful for a new government coming in in 1975 and taking some ameliorative steps in those industries. The people in the motor industry who prior to that time were being successful with exports know that as a result of those actions by the Labor Government they became uncompetitive. We are being told that there are now signs that export markets are returning for some of our manufacturing industries, particularly the motor trade. 
I think that the policies taken to reverse a number of the policies of the Labor Government, together with a number of new policies, have been an expression of practical and genuine concern about employment in this country. I think we would find a lot in common between the approaches of the Government and the Opposition if we could only get to talk about them. I agree from what the honourable member for Burke said and from the interjection of the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones)  that we could pursue some common ground. 
One area of common ground is the increase in wages to which the honourable member for Burke referred. I am not concerned about the absolute level of wages now that we are getting better relativity to overseas labour costs, those against which we are competing. In other words, if we conduct our industry in a certain way and use modern technology we can afford to pay high wage levels. But there are problems about relativities within that general level. 
Members of the Opposition could assist in this area by trying to get more sensible awards for the young, the unskilled in relation to the skilled and for weekend workers. Some of the awards are quite absurd and have forced people out of work. For example, in the hotel and retail liquor trades industry, an industry which has squeezed out enormous numbers of people over the last few years, any ordinary time worked from midnight Friday to midnight Saturday is paid at time and a half, Saturday to Sunday at time and threequarters and in front of house at double time. The introduction of savage penalties like that has forced literally thousands of people out of employment in that industry. If we are to have any combined attack on these problems I ask members of the Opposition to assist by talking some sense into employees and unions about these awards. 

 -Mr Speaker- 

Motion (by  Mr Hodges)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Original question put- 
That the motion  (Dr  Klugman's)  be agreed to. 
-Has the attention of the Minister for Defence been drawn to a news report today which stated that the Royal Australian Air Force is converting four of its F111s into spy planes? Will the Minister inform the House whether this is a correct report? If so, for what are the planes to be used? 
I welcome the balanced and sensible statement that was made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock).  I think there has been sufficient time since this statement was made to digest it properly and to appreciate its balance. I do not think it claims too much for Australia. I do not think it pretends to know more in a very uncertain situation than is knowable. But it has been amusing to see the reaction of members of the Opposition to this statement. There were more things in it with which they could agree than they wanted. This of course puts them in an extremely difficult situation because they have to ask: Well, was it in fact the Foreign Minister's statement or was it the statement of the Prime Minister?' If it were the statement of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  then, of course, they could not agree with it. But a number of times they have said that the Foreign Minister is the  captive of the Prime Minister and hence how can they attack what he is saying? They have to attack the Foreign Minister and the Prime Minister at the same time. I think we have had enough of the Opposition building up the Prime Minister in this way. If they want to give an impression of firmness of leadership to the country, then I think this is the best way they can go about it. They should not go about it by following the path of debate which they have followed over this whole incident. In order to inform myself as to what the Opposition was saying in this debate I looked at statements that have been made by  Senator Wriedt,  the Foreign Affairs spokesman for the Australian Labor Party and by other front bench spokesmen, including the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  I must say that I find myself somewhat confused. I can understand the difficulties that the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Humphreys)  is having in putting forward a consistent attack on the statement of the Foreign Minister. For example, on the China-Soviet involvement we had a statement from  Senator Wriedt  on 8 January when he stated: 
I do not believe that either the Chinese or Soviet Government will become directly involved in the conflict . . . 
He was speaking, of course, of the conflict between Kampuchea and Vietnam. A few days later on 12 February- maybe he sensed that something was in the wind- he stated:   . . the possibility cannot be ruled out. 
It is not surprising that he had difficulty making forecasts because the Labor Party was not clear about the invasion by Vietnamese forces. For example on 8 January  Senator Wriedt  said: 
It is difficult to know whether the fall of the Kampuchean Government has been due to an invasion by Vietnamese forces . . . 
But we are told quite clearly by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition: 
Let's get the facts right. In December-January Vietnam invaded Kampuchea . . . took Phnom Penh and installed a puppet regime ... 
So at least he was pretty clear about the situation. A certain amount of uncertainty was created by the Prime Minister, said  Senator Wriedt,  and the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  who is in the House now, associated himself with that statement. On 22 January they said: 
The Prime Minister is using the events in Indo-China peninsular . . . for creating an air of uncertainty. He is deliberately fostering an air of insecurity . . . 
This is ironic in terms of what was to come. On 22 February the Leader of the Opposition had this to say: 
It is fairly obvious that ... a sense of instability, even insecurity, has rippled through the Asian countries, as a result of Vietnam 's occupying Kampuchea. 
On Indo-China and on Australia's strategic interest we had  Senator Wriedt  and the honourable member for Corio on 22 January stating: 
Instead of concentrating on largely peripheral issues on Indo-China and Iran, the Prime Minister would be better advised to concentrate on Australia . . . neither issue could . . . affect Australia's strategic position. 
On 18 February we had a statement by the Foreign Affairs spokesman for the Labor Party which reads: 
The world is now facing a very serious situation . . . one which is similar to the Cuban missile crisis of 1962 . . . 
It is of no particular strategic concern to Australia but it is as serious as the 1962 Cuban missile crisis. Another point on Australia's strategic interest was made by  Senator Wriedt  on the Australian Broadcasting Commission program  Newsvoice  of 22 February, when he stated: 
To suggest that events in . . . Kampuchea could  . . impose a threat to Australia's security is laughable. 
However the Leader of the Opposition as reported in  Hansard  on the same day stated:  . . unless a satisfactory conclusion can be arranged in relation to the conflict ... we will see an escalation of Soviet presence in the Indo-China peninsular area  . . it is in our interest to . . . prevent this escalation . . . The most undesirable trend that one could imagine. 
I now refer to the criticism by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition on 27 February. He said:  . . the Government's failure to anticipate developments . . . have left us without any effective leverage at all. 
That is laughable in view of other statements by the Opposition about the Prime Minister's attempting to create uncertainty when he was raising legitimate concerns about the likely course of events. Further on the Deputy Leader of the Opposition said: 
What will happen . . . is difficult to foresee. 
I think it is difficult to respond adequately to the statements made by the Opposition in this debate. I believe that the Foreign Minister in his statement is quite firm on basic principles. He rightly rejects the unthinking demands from the Opposition that he must be even-handed. He said: 
The parrot cry of 'even-handedness' is no substitute for thinking through a policy. The Opposition has accused the Government of a pro-China bias. The only bias this Government has in regional affairs is towards peace and stability. 
I will not suggest that members of  Her  Majesty's loyal Australian Opposition have a direct interest in instability either but if the soft mindedness they have demonstrated in this debate were translated into government it would contribute mightily to instability in the region. I refer to the speech made by  Senator Wriedt  in the Senate in response to the Minister's statement. In relation to even-handedness, he said: 
It is fundamental that no government is going to have any impact on what happens in any of these disputes unless it has the trust of both sides . . . If we take a side in matters which are of international moment we forfeit the right to be able to act as a mediator and to have the trust of both sides. Everybody knows that in any dispute a mediator must have the trust of both sides. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member for Mackellar is apparently not aware that he is not permitted to refer to debates in another place. I ask him to proceed with his speech and delete references to those debates. 
I am sorry. I was not aware of that. It is difficult in this case because the principal Opposition spokesman on foreign affairs is in the Senate. The Minister's speech was read by  Senator Carrick  in the Senate and the principal response from the Opposition was made in the Senate. 
I am obliged to the honourable member for Corio for filling me in on that background. The general purport of what the Opposition has been saying is that the Soviet Union could be made to feel the odd man out if we do not take an even-handed posture in this international situation; the Soviet Union could feel bad about things and this would make the situation very difficult. 
I thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  for your generosity. I also thank the honourable member for Diamond Valley for his perspicacity. Of all the super powers I believe that the Soviet Union is the only one which is building up an offensive capacity well beyond its needs for defence. It is the only super power which is increasing rather that decreasing the infringements of human rights in its own territory and in its European satellites. It is the only super power which is actively promoting strife in other continents. I instance in particular the intervention of Cuban troops in Africa. 
I am talking about the extreme interventions of the Soviet Union. There is some indication that the Chinese are starting to behave a little more satisfactorily. The question of even-handedness was taken up by the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman).  He made some points in his speech on 27 February which I thought very sensible. As he said, he did not make them in any political way. I am not trying to make a political point. I am trying to make a serious point about even-handedness. The honourable member for Prospect said: 
The second basic point I make is that to my mind all people prefer democratic forms of government. I completely disassociate myself from those who claim that the underdeveloped countries are happy under dictatorships. This is not true. They just have not been given the chance  . . Therefore, at the very least, I think it is in Australia's immediate interest to support democracy and democracies wherever they exist. People talk about even handedness. I do not claim to be even handed. Wherever there is a dispute between democratic and undemocratic forces, I shall always support the former- the democratic forces. 
-Obviously, one would not say that in every possible circumstance. By and large, during the course of history when one is dealing with an open society versus a closed society in general one is not asked to be even handed. I believe that there is an increasing concern about the balance of power as we move into the 1980s and about the activities of the Soviet Union. It is impossible to look at them without great foreboding as to their outcome. I refer honourable members to the recent interviews with  Dr Henry  Kissinger reported in the  Economist.  He raised a question about the retaliatory capacity of the United States during the 1980s and the possibilities for Soviet policy within that semi-vacuum. 
The honourable member for Bonython  (Dr Blewett)  in one of his usual polished, erudite and, in many ways, sensible contributions to the debate was cautious about being too concerned with the geo-political situation- if we regard the overview of Russia as geo-political- and thereby blinding ourselves to the independent significance of local situations. He said that this is the lesson of the past. Surely this is nonsense. The importance of local situations must always be assessed within the pattern of wider situations. Of course, there are examples of wrong assessments. That is a different matter. By the time of the Czechoslovakian invasion Chamberlain surely understood the significance of the situation there in relation to the whole but he misjudged his action. Perhaps he had no choice by that time due to the failure of his predecessors to examine local incidents in a wider pattern; something might have been done beforehand if specific local incidents had been related to an analysis of the overall situation. Eden overrated the significance of Nasser in world politics and the capacity of Britain and France, both in physical power and political license. But we underrate the importance of world situations at our peril. We cannot look at the history of the 1 930s in particular without having fear about possible Jeremiahs. People such as Churchill would have been seen as very extreme in the 1930s. I can understand how many reasonable people, having heard Churchill's fulminations over many years, raised doubts as to whether they were real or overstated. However, he was right and everybody else was wrong. Many decent honourable people ignored the overall situation for too long. That is a major danger. In this context I believe that the caution of the Foreign Minister about Russia is both understandable and in the direct interests of the Australian people and world peace. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. Would the Government be prepared to use the external affairs power of the Australian Constitution to introduce a Bill of rights? 
-The objective of this motion, which is to do with the public funding of abortions, is to make it more difficult for people to exercise an independent moral judgment as to whether or not a pregnancy should be terminated. There are those, such as the Right to Life Association of Victoria, who argue that it does not go far enough in that it allows one avenue of escape, that is, when the life of the pregnant woman can be saved in no other way. There is no doubt in my mind that it is seen as the first step in a campaign to outlaw abortions altogether. If the motion is carried, pressure will be put on State Parliaments to amend the law to make all abortions illegal. 
I know that in notes circulated by the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher)  it is claimed that 'the motion does not seek to affect the legality of pregnancy termination in the States and Territories'. Looking merely at the wording of the motion in isolation, that is literally true, but in terms of the campaign to which all honourable members have been exposed it is not true in the spirit. There are people in the community who hold the view that the termination of a pregnancy is unacceptable under any circumstances. They are entitled to hold that view, and they are entitled to give it effect in any situation where they themselves are directly involved. They also are entitled to try to persuade those close to them, or indeed anyone in such a situation with whom they come in contact, that that is the correct moral judgment and the correct course of action to follow. Members of the Right to Life Association who have spoken and written to me on this subject- and I have listened to all who have wanted to state their case- generally have been of this opinion. The motion before us goes very close to reflecting that opinion. It goes about 99 per cent of the way. 
Others in the community do not agree with this view. Some agree with it in the abstract, until they are confronted with a particular human situation affecting themselves or someone dear to them, and make a different judgment, often accompanied by feelings of guilt. Different people apply different criteria as to the particular circumstances which in their opinion justify an abortion. I cite the following examples as cases where many people would regard an abortion, at least in the early stages of pregnancy, as justified. Firstly, where the woman's health, although not endangered to the extent of likely death, could be seriously and permanently impaired by the continuation of the pregnancy. Secondly, where the child is known to be, or could in all probability be, deformed or mentally defective. Thirdly, where the pregnancy might well lead to the breakdown of a marriage, or other intolerable social or economic circumstances. 
People's views may well be different depending on whether they are considering the matter in the abstract or are faced with a particular case. I have examined my conscience and I am not at all sure whether my fairly conservative views on the subject would stand up in a particular case of someone near and dear to me. I would hope that those placed in the unfortunate position of deciding whether or not an abortion is to be performed would, despite the stress that inevitably accompanies such occasions, make a responsible moral judgment about what is best, giving due weight to the fact of the presence of an unborn child at a particular stage of development. No one in his or her right mind could make such a decision lightly. 
Now we come to the heart of the matter. We are being asked as legislators to judge such a decision, if not according to the absolute standards of those who believe that an abortion is never justified, then preciously close to those absolute standards. Perhaps since it is only a funding decision, we are making that judgment only in the cases of those in the most disadvantaged financial circumstances. If that be the case then the judgment must be made with very considerable reservation. It is not, I suggest, our role as legislators to try to impose, by force of law, absolute or near absolute standards of morality where there is no general agreement as to those standards. In this case there is no general agreement. 
The lack of agreement is reflected in the somewhat uncertain application of the State laws on abortion. In this case I therefore believe that the Commonwealth is correct to fund these particular medical procedures as long as they are legal under State or Territorial law. There is therefore, in my opinion, no justification for this motion and I will vote against it. 
I now turn to the amendments. That submitted by the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde)  is virtually identical in intent with the original motion, and therefore I will vote against it. The amendment submitted by the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman)  acknowledges three additional grounds on which benefits should be paid. However, I believe it may well be too restrictive as regards the desirable legal position, and furthermore- this is perhaps the greatest concern I have- it has not had sufficient study devoted to it for one to be certain of its implications. Therefore I will vote against it. The amendment moved by the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Simon)  is merely a reiteration of the status quo. Therefore I am prepared to vote for it. 
I understand that some honourable members are considering voting for the motion because they are concerned about the way abortion laws are being administered in the States. From some reports I have had, that concern may well be justified. I beseech them not to use this blunt weapon merely because it is the only one at hand. It will not achieve what they want of it and it will cause harm that they may not have considered. Let us hope that we can decide to act in this House today with compassion and justice, certainly for the unborn, but also for the unfortunate women and their families. 
I ask the Minister for Special Trade Representations to inform the House as to the present state of negotiations with the European Economic Community to obtain better access for Australian exports. 
Tonight I want to talk about the difficult problem of making Australian industry, and particularly manufacturing industry, more competitive. This problem has been the subject of two major inquiries in recent years- those of Jackson and Crawford- in addition to innumerable lesser studies by government and private bodies. It has also had the continuing attention of the Industries Assistance Commission and the Temporary Assistance Authority. One often hears the question: 'When are the inquiries going to stop and action begin?' Implied in that question, of course, is 'action by government'. It overlooks a wide range of government measures designed to assist manufacturing industry, but also overlooks the more fundamental requirement for action by industry itself. Fortunately many businesses have taken action to put themselves into a more competitive position, thus protecting their long term investment and the jobs of thousands of Australians now and in the future. 
Basically the message of Jackson, repeated by Crawford, is that the Australian market is not big enough for Australian industry to nourish, and that it can do well in the future only by exploiting carefully selected world markets. In other words there must be a switch from products and services designed essentially for the domestic market to new products and new services designed for export markets. The conundrum, of course, is that the process of change causes disruption of employment, but if change does not occur, employment prospects in the medium to long term suffer. I do not believe that the change is occurring rapidly enough for our longer term comfort. How many firms in Australia have as a major component of their business strategy, under the close surveillance of top management, a serious export marketing program? How many are devoting at least as much effort to product or service development and market analysis for exports as they are to the domestic scene? Not very many, I believe. If one asks each firm as one visits it about its research and development and export marketing functions, one will often find them only in embryo, or as a sideline to the main business activity. 
I am convinced that this vital fundamental shift in business strategies will not occur until it becomes demonstrably more profitable to make the change, and demonstrably more dangerous to avoid it. This means a combination of carrot and stick- the carrot of export incentives, as recommended by Crawford, and the stick of progressive tariff reductions, as wrapped in cotton wool by Crawford. Half of our industry is owned by overseas business, established to exploit the Australian domestic market. We welcomed it; we encouraged it.  Mr Chifley  encouraged it. We are grateful for it. It has made a massive contribution to our managerial and technical skills. 
Let us now take the steps necessary to harness this powerful machine to our new objectives, by making it more profitable to export and perilous to rely solely on the Australian market. It is essential that, if Australia is to swing the bulk of its manufacturing industry in the direction which is essential for our future survival, we ensure that the overseas-owned half of it plays a major part in that change. The way we can do that is to make certain that those who make the decisions in those companies, be they the Australian managers of them or the overseas investors in them, are required to examine where the future of their investment lies. They must be given the incentive to do that and to export. They run the peril of losing the investment by progressive tariff reductions, making it unprofitable to continue to exploit only the domestic market. 
Tonight I would like to talk about giving the market a chance to work. Let me begin by quoting Arthur Seldon of the London Institute of Economic Affairs on the subject of change- the choice, as he puts it, of change 'by degree or by convulsion'. The form in which change takes place and, therefore, the intensity of the resistance to it, depends upon its rate. Here is perhaps the most fundamental distinction between the market and government. In a functioning market with monopoly bottlenecks minimised and access to supply widened by topping up low incomes, decisions in adapting supply to demand are decentralised to individual undertakings or establishments- factories and shops, mines and docks, schools and hospitals. Change is organic, gradual, continuous, by degree. It affects relatively small numbers. Disturbance, dislocation, disruption are minimised. The confrontations in the market are small and are solved by haggling over price which is the peacemaker. In a State economy or State industries, decisions are centralised to planning boards, committees, commissions, councils - 

 Opposition members interjecting- 

-Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I am trying to introduce a reasonably intelligent argument. It is a disappointment to me that the honourable member for Batman  (Mr Howe)  whom I had placed in a higher level is not particularly interested. In a State economy or State industry, decisions are centralised to planning boards, committees, commissions, councils, government departments, that nominally represent the very much larger number of workers, managers and consumers who will benefit or suffer. Change is therefore more likely to be opposed, repressed, inhibited or postponed. When it takes place it is contrived, jerky, discontinuous, lumpy and convulsive. Disturbance, dislocation and disruption are large-scale. Friction is inflated. In a market there are, therefore, better prospects that change will be peaceful. In a government economy change is more likely to provoke tension, strife and unrest. If it is suppressed, in certain societies ultimately it will provoke violence, bloodshed and civil war. 
The United Kingdom has gone farther down the road of state control and market distortion than we have. However, we have gone farther than we should. Let me suggest the following examples of market distortion by government interference or by business monopoly or union monopoly- I make no distinction- which are depriving Australians of benefits they should be enjoying, and where the position daily gets worse: Firstly, our whole transport system, where a population living almost entirely by the sea is denied by Government, business or union restrictive practices the full benefits of carriage by sea; where the economics of rail versus road are not even known because of numerous cross subsidies; and where competition in the air is stifled in the interest of one Government-owned and one Government-supported airline; and all this in a country suffering, as Blainey has said, The Tyranny of Distance', dependent for its very lifeblood on the cheapness of transport; secondly, the postal system where Government monopoly and feather bedding result in less and less service at higher and higher cost, and where the organisation of alternative methods of communication is prevented by force of law; thirdly, the restrictive framework of limited trading hours, weekend and holiday penalty rates and other protective devices that are, on the one hand, denying consumers the goods and services they have a right to expect and, on the other, denying those who are prepared to work the employment which they seek; and fourthly, a banking system so regulated and controlled that it is difficult to distinguish one bank from another, and in which nobody knows whether the system is responding to new demands or merely moulding its customers into the patterns of its own inertia. 
These are but a few examples of market distortion, none of them easily corrected, that are pushing us slowly but inexorably towards the upheaval of discontinuous change so clearly foretold by Arthur Seldon. Let us whenever we can move in the direction of market forces. 
My question is addressed to the Treasurer. I refer him to his statement on the investment allowance of last Sunday, 3 June 1979, which he might recall was designed to ensure that businesses needing to complete projects by 30 June 1979 in order to qualify for the investment allowance were not held to ransom by union industrial action. Can the Treasurer confirm that eligible plant ordered by 30 June 1978 and first used or installed ready for use after the date of his statement, that is, 3 June 1979, but before 30 June 1979 will still attract the 40 per cent investment allowance rate? 
I can see the difficulty under which the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  and the honourable member for Bonython  (Dr Blewett)  are labouring in this debate. They are honourable gentlemen in every respect of that term. In recent weeks in this Parliament they have been engaged in a genuinely bipartisan attempt to assist the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  for whom they have considerable regard in drawing up new legislation which will enable the Commonwealth Government to take a much firmer line against the chief organisers of illicit drug activity in Australia. Because of unfortunate events involving suggestions that criminals have penetrated the Federal Narcotics Bureau- allegations which at this moment still have to be investigated- the honourable members are in a position where, if they wish, they can create trouble for the Government and for the Narcotics Bureau. They can create trouble in the Government's attempts to track down the leading criminal elements in the drug problem. I have noted the restraint of the two honourable members in the debate. I am thankful for it because I do not think that either of them- certainly the honourable member for Adelaide referred directly to this in his speechwould suggest that the Minister is incompetent which, in fact, is the term used in the Opposition's suggested matter of public importance. The matter of public importance reads: 
The Fraser Government's incompetent handling of the Federal Narcotics Bureau. 
I think that many things that they have said before and in this debate indicate to me that they have considerable confidence in the Minister's ability to handle the Bureau and to advance the cause of tracking down the major drug offenders. The honourable member for Bonython in his speech asked a question specifically about when the Minister had first heard of these allegations. I can only refer him to the joint statement made by the Minister for Administrative Services  (Mr McLeay)  and the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, I think on 1 June, where they said that the allegations were made initially to the Queensland police in June 1 978 by  Mr and Mrs Wilson  whose bodies were recently discovered at Rye in Victoria. The Federal Narcotics Bureau decided at that time to keep the allegations under review. The allegations came to the notice of the Government on Monday last. I think that was a quite clear statement from the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs and I can only repeat what he said on that occasion in answer to the honourable member for Bonython. 
It is suggested that the Minister acted unwisely in not consulting the head of the Narcotics Bureau before the Government made its decision to carry out a police inquiry. The Minister is a very careful man, as I am aware from knowing him as a State Minister for many years and since his taking up a portfolio in this House. He acted slowly and deliberately in this matter. He consulted with the head of the Department concerned and took his advice. It was the Government's belief- I think correctly- that if an inquiry was going to be conducted into a particular bureau it was not the proper approach to consult with the head of that bureau as to the nature of the inquiry, but it was the proper thing to consult with the superior of that person, who was the departmental head. That was done and that would seem to be a satisfactory thing to do. I think the remarks made by the honourable member for Adelaide and the honourable member for Bonython about the proposed royal commission or extending the precise terms given to  Mr Justice  Williams are unnecessary complications in a situation where we have to establish a group consisting of police officers who can ferret out the facts. Obviously they will be people carefully chosen. The information that they obtain will be given to  Mr Justice  Williams. In my opinion the information does clearly come within the terms of reference given to him when the royal commission was first set up. 
Since the Opposition's charges relate more generally to the Minister's control of the Federal Narcotics Bureau, I thought it worth while to indicate just what has been done by the Government in relation to this Bureau since the honourable member for Farrer became the Minister responsible for the Bureau. We all know that in late 1977 the royal commissioner,  Mr Justice  Williams, was appointed to examine the drug problem and that was in conjunction with, I think, four States. There was wide agreement that that needed to be done. There was another inquiry covering a different area conducted by the New South Wales Government. That inquiry is still proceeding. Not waiting for the royal commissioner's report, but with the full agreement of the royal commissioner, the Government proceeded to take another set of steps to take the fight against drug runners further and to make sure that they would be brought to heel more rapidly. The first step taken was in February 1978 to increase the staff of the Bureau by some 50 persons. That has since been done. Secondly, there was a visit by the Minister to the major drug running centres in South East Asia. As a result of that visit additional officers were appointed in Asian centres. Australia now has five full time officers stationed in the cities of Kuala Lumpur, Bangkok and Jakarta. In fact, we have the second largest international liaison group in that area. 
In July 1978 the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  announced additional coastal surveillance measures so that anybody trying to run drugs in through the remote parts of the Australian coast would be more likely to be detected. The aim of those measures was to raise the number of aircraft flying hours in 1978-79 to 27,000 from the 4,600 in the previous year. Those measures have been put into effect. A Federal drugs hotline was established in Canberra to give a 24-hour service for the receipt of information from anybody seeing anything suspicious around the coast. That service is still available. I think it is worth while drawing attention again to that hotline so that if anybody anywhere in Australia sees anything suspicious which he believes ought to be reported in relation to possible drug running he can ring a Canberra number code 062-733677. Anyone can ring free of charge and advise of any suspicious circumstances. That service is available 24 hours a day. 
The Customs Amendment Bill which is before the Senate at the moment, or which is about to go into the Senate, passed through this House with considerable amendment, with a great deal of bipartisan support and with quite worthwhile amendments recommended by the Opposition and accepted by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. That Bill is a major advance in tracking down the really bad criminals. Until now it has been very difficult to get hold of those people who operate mainly on the telephone and who are the principal organisers of these vile activities, but who are never themselves in possession of drugs. This Bill goes a long way towards making it easier to catch these people. It would be a tragedy if we followed the advice of the honourable member for Adelaide to withdraw this Bill. This Bill introduces a specific offence of conspiracy in relation to drug offences. This means that those people who organise, not just the little runners or the traffickers and so on, but the master criminals, can be charged with an offence of conspiracy in relation to drugs. The Bill approves the use of listening devices. A separate Bill to amend the Customs Act 1901 which was introduced by the Attorney-General allows for telephone taps. This, of course, is a way of tracking down these people in a way that has not been possible legally until now. Legal telephone taps in certain circumstances can now be used. 
There is also the question of a seizure of profits. The honourable member for Bonython said we must attack the profits. This Bill does that. In 1977 some steps were taken, but in the present Bill they are strengthened so that the assets of suspected criminals can be frozen while legal proceedings are under way. A pecuniary penalty which is equal to illegal profits can be placed upon a convicted criminal. This is the first time in the world that legislation of this kind has been introduced. The penalties for the master criminals have been increased. For commercial quantities of drugs, that is, 1 ,000 times trafficable quantities, life imprisonment without the option of a fine is now the maximum sentence. I think all these measures are ones which this Government, under this Minister, has been introducing since 1977 in order to crack down on illegal activities. It would be a terrible shame if at this stage we raised grave doubts about the Government's capacity to carry this into operation. I think we must stand behind the Minister. He will act carefully and sensitively. It is up to all honourable members of this House on both sides to give him the maximum support. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The discussion is concluded. 
-The speech by the honourable member for Batman  (Mr Howe)  was a thoroughly offensive tirade. I think that it should be pointed out that about two-thirds of the membership of this chamber belongs to the Liberal and National Country parties. Government members represent electorates across the whole spectrum of Australian life. They have people living and working or unemployed in their electorates from all areas of Australian society and that, of course, includes migrants and many others. To be told in this offensive tirade that the honourable member for Batman and his colleagues have a monopoly on the discovery of the problem of unemployment is insulting. 
The honourable member for Batman has had his say. I listened to him in silence. I have to say that I am very concerned that such a grave reflection should be cast on members on this side of the House, who represent two-thirds of the seats in this House, by the claim of the honourable member that they do not have any concern for the unemployed and that they have not discovered the problem of unemployment and do not feel genuine concern for the unemployed within their own electorates. I absolutely and decisively reject that reflection. I support the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner)  in what he said about the constant cry from the Opposition that honourable members on this side of the House always criticise the so-called dole bludgers. Those words are not a term in my vocabulary but are a term I hear day after day. I also hear day after day, allegations from the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  and the honourable member for Batman that members on this side of the House indulge in abuse of and attacks on the unemployed. I inform honourable members opposite that that is not an occupation of members on this side of the House and that there is no monopoly on concern for the unemployed by the Opposition. 
The motion before the House is abrasive and extreme. It seeks to condemn the Government for deliberately increasing the number of unemployed in Australia. It imputes motives to the Government which the Government does not have. In fact, its terms are not even correct. In the 12 months from July 1978 to July 1979, full-time unemployment decreased by 5,500; civilian employment increased by 64,000; private sector employment within that figure increased by 48,900 and government employment increased by about 15,000. By contrast, between May 1974 and May 1975, during part of the Labor Government's period in office, full time unemployment increased by 138,700; civilian employment decreased by 55,000; private sector employment decreased by 155,000 and government employment increased by nearly 100,000. There is a great lesson in those figures to which I will return later. Private employment during that period decreased by 155,000 while government employment increased by nearly 100,000. The money that was spent by the then Government in employing people was clearly not effective in increasing the net number of people employed. 
More people lost jobs in the private sector during that period. 
The point that I make now is that I would not describe even the disastrous increase in unemployment during the Labor Government's period in office and the accompanying disastrous loss of employment as the result of a deliberate intention of the then Labor Government to increase unemployment as the Opposition has in fact accused the present Government of doing. It was in fact due to a combination of mistaken policies and sheer blind incompetence. But I would not assert that it was a deliberate attempt to create unemployment. If we are to have a decent and responsible debate in this chamber, those must be accepted as two reasons why the very wording of the motion put forward by the honourable member for Port Adelaide is unacceptable. I was a bit confused as to exactly what the honourable member for Batman wanted. At one stage it seemed that he was saying that there need be no change in government policies as all that was required was a joint inquiry so that we could all understand the nature of the problem.  His  statement seemed to presuppose that members on his side of the House understand the problem or, at least, have a greater understanding of it than we on this side have. But it was unclear from what he said whether he wanted a change in government policy. 
I think that the honourable member for Port Adelaide revealed the crudity of his argument in two ways. He ignored the Government's substantially better performance on employment over the last 12 months, which in fact denies the substance of the motion. He injected an unnecessary venom into this serious subject by imputing maligned motives to the Government where they do not exist.  His  colleague, the honourable member for Batman, aided and abetted him in his unsavoury exercise. Both honourable members have contributed enormously to the volume of expressed concern about unemployment without having convinced the House that their alternative policies- indeed, they did not name any alternative policieswould produce a single net additional job to be taken up by the unemployed. Basically, as far as I can make it out, the Opposition's approachand I have been aided not by the contributions of the two honourable members, but by careful reading of the proceedings of the Australian Labor Party's conference at Adelaide in Julyseems to come down to two basic assertions. The first is that wages should be allowed to rise, thus generating more spending power and thus creating more jobs. This assertion contains the corollary that it is more important to create jobs than to fight inflation. Their second assertion was that the Government should spend more money to create more jobs. 
Apparently the Opposition believes that there is no link between inflation and unemployment. That is a recurring theme in what Opposition members say. I intend to quote from the Budget Speech of 11 April 1978 in the House of Commons made by the former United Kingdom Labour Party Chancellor of the Exchequer,  Mr Denis  Healey. At that time the Labour Government had been in office for a long time and had had many painful experiences on the subject of unemployment and its links with inflation.  Mr Healey  said: 
It remains as true as ever that inflation is the main enemy of full employment. Monetary policy will be one decisive factor here. But our price competitiveness will also depend crucially on reducing industrial costs, of which wages are bound to remain much the most important element. 
That disagrees with everything that is said day by day in this House by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  and by the various spokesmen of the Opposition.  Mr Healey  in the same speech said: 
But we cannot expect to see the rate of unemployment moving down at an acceptable speed unless we can create new jobs particularly in profitable firms in manufacturing industry and so strengthen the industrial base on which our whole economy depends. 

 His statement was not just a flash in the pan, because on 3 April 1979 in the teeth of an election before the then Labour Government went out of office  Mr Healey,  when making a financial statement in the House of Commons, had this to say: 
I have no doubt that for us in Britain, as for most of our partners, the defeat of inflation must remain the highest priority if we wish to reduce unemployment. This must be tackled on two fronts - 
I hope this will be acknowledged tonight in the speech on the Budget by the Leader of the Opposition-  by continued adherence to firm and responsible financial policies and by a moderate growth in earnings over the years ahead. 
During the Labor Government's term in 1974-75 to which I referred, the very proposals that have been put forward tonight by the Opposition to combat unemployment were in fact tried. During that period we had the greatest single increase in Government expenditures that we had ever had outside of a time of war. During that period we had the fastest rise in wages that we have ever had in the history of the country. These elements occurred and are part of the prescription that is being put forward by Opposition spokesmen, although, I must say, not coherently by the two speakers we have heard in this House this afternoon. The very sorry story that I outlined at the beginning of my speech occurred during that period. Full time unemployment increased by 138,700; civilian employment decreased by 55,000 net; private sector employment decreased by 155,000; and government employment increased by nearly 100,000. Of course, if government money is spent on employing people on the government pay-roll some of the unemployed will be soaked up. However, past experience, not only in other countries but also here through the actions of the Labor Government of only a few years ago, has proved that more jobs are lost in the private sector as a result of those policies than are gained. 
There is a general problem in that all the people refered to in the Opposition's motion- I. include the Australian Catholic Bishops, the Brotherhood of St Lawrence, the Victorian Minister,  Mr Dixon,  and Professor Henderson- are mentioned as expressing their concern about the plight of the unemployed. Many of them have echoed the sentiments expressed this afternoon by the honourable member for Port Adelaide and the honourable member for Batman, although they echoed them in somewhat more polite and reasonable terms than have the honourable members. But none of these concerned people, who join Government members in being concerned about this problem, has refuted the central economic thesis which the Government consistently puts forward regarding the role of private employment in creating jobs. None has been able to refute this proposition. In fact, to assume that just because the number of jobs provided under existing policies thus far has not satisfied honourable members on this side of the House and not satisfied the general public, a reversal of policies will create more jobs is a very perversion of logic. If we are fighting inflation as hard as we can, if we are trying to moderate wage increases within productivity, if we are trying to restrain public expenditure, if we are trying to keep taxes down in order to give people more money to spend thus creating private employment and if unemployment is still not being reduced as quickly as desired, then where is the logic in assuming that the reversal of all those policies will create more jobs? That is what we hear day after day. 
The tide on this matter has to be turned. I am not prepared to sit in this House day after day and be lectured, indeed hectored, by the honourable member for Port Adelaide on the supposed fact that I have no concern for the unemployed, that the policies that are being pursued are nonsense, when he is advocating a reversal of those policies, a reversal which would create massive additional unemployment. The honourable member for Batman would be satisfied only if the whole of the economy were brought within government control, and that is his particular problem. Not all the honourable members on his side of the House agree with him on that. But in this situation all the Government can do is to act honestly. I think the Government, in its policies is closer to the views expressed by  Mr Denis  Healey, the former Labour Chancellor in the United Kingdom whose remarks I quoted earlier in my speech, than are my honourable friends opposite. All I can say is this: Unless honourable members opposite can come up with specific policies- not just reversals of our policies- which they can prove are contrary to their previous experience in office, they should shut up. We on this side of the House have had enough of being called bashers of dole bludgers and of being told that we are not concerned about employment when we vigorously and rigorously pursue the only policies which are leading in the direction of increased jobs. 
I will pass over the foolish remarks made by the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  to a more serious matter which relates to the allegations made in the House during Question Time this morning by a number of people and in a very unfortunate statement by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden).  I cannot find out exactly what was said until tomorrow morning when I read  Hansard.  I wish to reply to the speeches made by the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  and the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding)  this evening in the adjournment debate. Those members of the House who know my political views will know that I share very few, if any, of those of  Mr Lyenko  Urbanchich. I am not prepared to sit in this House and have the forms of the House misused to condemn a man without trial. I am not prepared to sit here in silence and let that happen. 
The honourable member for Robertson knows jolly well and has very good reason to know why I would be concerned about somebody having a fair trial if indeed a trial is to occur. I would be the very first to be concerned about the kind of charges that are made. I do not think there is anybody in this House who can challenge me on that. People are innocent until proven guilty. All I know at this stage is that various allegations have been made under privilege in the New South Wales Parliament. Various allegations have been apparently made. 
I am sorry. I am treating this matter very seriously. I am not making a nonsense of it. On a radio program allegations were made, all of which at the moment are untested by any version of justice as we know it in this country. They relate to the alleged activities of somebody at least 34 years ago, somebody who has been in this country since 1950 and who has been well known to members opposite since 1966 at the very least. All I am asking for, on behalf of all the Jews who were persecuted, hounded and killed without trial during the war, is the kind of justice that would have prevented that sort of thing from happening. 
-That is a very good question and something I am concerned about. What I do beseech this House is that if something of importance is to be discussed it not be raised here in the way that this matter was, by continuous questions at Question Time and under privilege during the adjournment debate. I beseech the House to bear in mind that this individual, like every other and like the 6 million Jews who were killed in the war, has the same rights as anybody else. That is all I ask. I hold no brief for the man, other than that he be given the same rights as anybody else. 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. It is further to his response to the honourable member for Deakin and concerns our international competitiveness. Is it a fact that there has been a general acceleration of inflation throughout the industrialised world in recent months? If so, what are the principal causes of this? How does it affect Australia? What is the appropriate response? 
I welcome the general shape of this Budget and echo the sentiments expressed by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  in the opening of his Speech where he said: 
The containment of Government spending has been one of the central elements of our economic policy. 
It is worth noting that in the three years to 1 972-73 Commonwealth Budget outlays grew by an average of 4% per cent per year in real terms; in the three years to 1 975-76, by  10  per cent per year; and in the three years to 1978-79 by only 1 per cent per year. 
There is growing and proper sentiment in the community towards lower taxation and smaller government. 
But essentially within this there is a trade-off because people are less willing to accept cuts in government expenditure when it gets down to individual cases. Nonetheless, in this Budget I think there is a proper balance between the two. Certainly the outcome on the deficit is very sound for overall economic management. The overall deficit of $2, 193m, a reduction of $ 1,285m on 1978-79, is a substantial achievement within the present economic difficulties. Even more importantly, the domestic deficit of $875m, which is much less than half the domestic deficit of $2,258m in the previous year, is the lowest for six years. This means simply that interest rates can be brought down or at least rises in them prevented. That means that the average person who has to repay a mortgage or who has to repay hire purchase debts can be very much better off if the deficit is contained. 
Basically, a deficit is the amount expended over the amount earned. Just as in any household if one spends more than one's income one has to borrow and to pay interest on the money borrowed. That interest repayment is a major charge on the household. For a person with an average borrowing for a house these days of something over $20,000 a one per cent increase in interest rates could mean $4 or $5 a week in the burden of additional interest repayments. A 2 per cent increase obviously would mean something like an extra $8 or $9 a week. So if the Budget deficit is increased and if government borrowing pushes interest rates up people have to bear a substantial burden. Within this overall framework of course the tax cuts from 1 December are most welcome. Much nonsense has been talked about whether these are real tax cuts. It is unfortunate that a number of comments by  Mr Risstrom,  the Secretary of the Australian Taxpayers Association, were avidly taken up by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden). Mr Risstrom  seemed to be saying that despite the fact that tax rates would go down from 1 December this really did not make much difference. The Leader of the Opposition took this up very avidly. It was rather like Satan rebuking sin. The Leader of the Opposition talked about the Government not being able to proceed with tax indexation but it did allow tax cuts. Only a few weeks ago in an interview published in the  National Times,  which interestingly enough was entitled 'Bill Hayden Reveals All '-in fact he did not reveal all; he did not reveal the donkey walloping, for example, that was confessed in his most extraordinary speech in reply to the Budget the other night- he was asked by a reporter 
What is Labor's attitude towards tax indexation? 
He replied: 
Well, we're committed to the principle of tax indexation, but I'm not suggesting that we would go ahead with it immediately. We'd have to weigh up whether we could afford it or not. 
The implementation of full tax indexation would cost another $500m. We've got to trade that off as against tax cuts. Which would people prefer? At this stage, I think they'd prefer the tax cuts. 
The reporter said: 
I think in the past there has been some doubt about your own commitment to the principle of tax indexation. 
And well he might ask that. The Leader of the Opposition replied: 
If we can afford it, we will. 
That contrasts enormously with the Leader of the Opposition's reception to  Mr Risstrom  's remarks. All I can say about the Secretary of the Taxpayers Association is this: If he believes that by suddenly becoming a multi-media personality and the darling of every reporter who was really looking for something nasty to write about the Budget and if he has suddenly become the darling of the Leader of the Opposition, he might well consider the interests of the members of the Taxpayers Association, who presumably put him in his position to worry about whether people will have to pay more tax. If he does embrace the views of the Leader of the Opposition and the various people who rushed in and proclaimed him this multi-media personality, he may be letting down the members of his Association by helping along the possibility of the Leader of the Opposition taking over the Government and increasing the taxes very substantially. 
The other point in the Budget that I draw attention to and which I particularly welcome relates to pensions. A number of representations were made from my electorate on the restoration of the six-monthly indexation of pensions. But I was more interested in the increases in the income eligibility limits to enable people to get pensioner health benefit cards. The weekly income limits have been raised for single people from $33 to $40 and for married couples from $57.50 to $68. Eligibility for these cards has been extended to include supporting parents. There is a number of war veterans in my electorate. The War Veterans Home at Narrabeen is in my electorate. I am pleased that the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Mr Adermann)  is at the table tonight. I pay tribute to him for his work in restoring the rights of tuberculosis pensioners and bringing in many other improvements in benefits for veterans. I believe that these are extremely well received within the various associations and certainly amongst the many thousands of veterans who reside in my electorate. 
The philosophy behind benefits which is held by the Liberal and National Country parties is very clear. Honourable members opposite seek to create some kind of division within the Australian community and a division between honourable members on both sides of this House on whether people are entitled to benefits. The position of the coalition parties has always been very clear. We are firmly in favour of helping those in need. We are the parties that recognise that the money to pay for those benefits has to be found. We see absolutely no conflict between the need to pay very good benefits and the need for the community to be productive enough to create the wealth to pay those benefits because, unless business operates well and profitably, unless people are constantly in employment, unless people are at work all the time and not involved in industrial disputes, the wealth will not be created and taxation will not be available to pay the very best benefits that this country can provide. It is very distressing to hear in this House day after day attacks by the Opposition on the people whose job it is to try to create this wealth. In that same process the Opposition tries to destroy the incentive that those people have to create wealth which can be taxed. By those actions, the Opposition denies the long term benefits to those who are most in need. A country which is not well off, which is not productive and where profits are not being made by business is a country which cannot care for its underprivileged and needy people. 
I lived in the United Kingdom many years ago for some nine years and I will never forget the gradual decline in the real living standards of the people with lower incomes as a result of increasingly socialist policies. The way in which to improve overall the benefits to those most in need is to ensure that one has a productive, wealthy and prosperous economy. Even when the Fabian Society, that socialist society in London, analysed the first period of office of  Mr Wilson,  the socialist Prime Minister, it had to come to the conclusion that the least well off were in fact worse off as a result of  Mr Wilson's  period of office. So, there is a great delusion that is fostered each day in this House that if somehow one drags down those who produce, those who do better, one will help those who are worse off. There is no greater delusion in this society. Fortunately, it is not shared by many people in this society. 
In relation to this Budget, I think the following quote is quite appropriate:  . . unless appropriate economic measures are adopted now, the hopeful signs in the economy could prove illusory, and inflation could take off again from its already high level, to a thoroughly destructive effect. The private sector would find it increasingly difficult to function, with increasing business failures, and unemployment could rise to dramatically higher levels. 
That situation can be avoided and it was with this objective in mind that this Budget was designed. Some sacrifice and patient restraint is called for from all of us in our demands for more resources, whether it is additional public services that are wanted or higher personal incomes. 
We expect that as the expansion of public sector activity is restrained, the opportunities for private sector expansion will improve, though full responses to greater room for growth may take time to develop. 
That in fact is a quote from the Budget Speech made in 1975 by the then Treasurer, the present Leader of the Opposition. He said a number of things along these lines. He also said: 
We are no longer operating in that simple Keynesian world in which some reduction in unemployment could, apparently, always be purchased at the cost of some more inflation. Today, it is inflation itself which is the central policy problem. More inflation simply leads to more unemployment. 
That speech and the quotes that I read indicate a responsible approach to the framing of a Budget which, in fact, did not turn out in the way that it was envisaged because the projected deficit for that year, as honourable members will recall, skyrocketed. Even after we came to government and made a substantial number of expenditure cuts, the final deficit was very much larger than that forecast by Treasurer Hayden in his Budget Speech. 
But there has been an astonishing change since then. In fact, there has been a complete reversal of economic responsibility. The Leader of the Opposition has made a number of statements indicating that there should be a much higher public sector spending. For example, in the F. E. Chamberlain Lecture delivered by the Leader of the Opposition in Perth earlier this year, in talking about an approach for lowering taxes, he said: 
This sort of approach strikes directly at the conventional democratic socialist notion that equality and equity can only be assured by a stronger public sector. 
At Monash University in April, he also said: 
Excessive, persistent and grave social ills affecting Australia can only be solved by Government action on a national level. 
That is a bit of an echo of what  Mr Whitlam  used to say. The Leader of the Opposition also stated: 
These endemic problems can only be dealt with by government programs- and that means government spending. 
Those remarks contain an eerie reminder of what happened previously. 
The speech by the Leader of the Opposition on Tuesday night in response to the Budget Speech by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  was populist, it was polemical and it was also innumerate. For one who has claimed that he is economically responsible that speech was a disgraceful effort. It indicated a total change. In the Chamberlain lecture, from which I quoted earlier, which was delivered in Perth in March of this year the Leader of the Opposition said: 
Experience in government has given us a much greater knowledge of the government machinery and access to a much wider range of economic data. 
It is now possible for us to make accurate assessments of the annual Budget parameters and to frame an alternative Budget within this framework. 
This gives much more assurance to our economic policy and allows us to be much more confident in predictions that we make. 
We did not get an alternative Budget in this Budget debate from the Leader of the Opposition. Since he made that commitment in the Chamberlain lecture to continue with the idea of an alternative Budget he has gone through the Australian Labor Party conference in Adelaide and made a deal with the Left on economic policy- a deal which was called 'gutless' by  Mr Hawke.  The policy that resulted from that deal was referred to by  Mr Wran,  the Premier of New South Wales, as 'a bit of a hotch-potch'. We have no idea what the alternative Budget of the 
Leader of the Opposition would be, except that broadly he says: 'We will spend more, give tax cuts and reduce petrol prices. But you will not have to pay. We will soak the rich up to make up the difference'. 
Let us examine the kinds of things that the Leader of the Opposition seemed to be promising. At the third Conference of Labor Economists in Adelaide in May 1 979 he promised $450m extra for public works. I have been following this chameleon through his various audiences this year. I have kept a copy of every speech that he has made. The only conclusion I can reach is that he takes on the hue of the audience that he is addressing. Each of these audiences requires a commitment. At the Conference of Labor Economists he said: 
I have outlined a program for the injection of an extra $450m into capital works programs through the annual Budget 
Later in the same address he talked about a community service corps. He said: 
Payment of a wage according to accepted scales is central to the concept that I have in mind. 
In the speech he made on the Budget earlier this week he suggested that somehow he could employ 50,000 people over a year with an expenditure of no more than $100m. That is absolute nonsense. According to the proposals put forward by the Australian Council of Local Government Associations it requires no less than $16,000 per person per annum in order to allow for award wages, together with supervision and a reasonable quantum of materials to go with the work. The honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  acknowledged in his speech earlier that the scheme would need supervision and materials. 
-The honourable member for Robertson is qualifying what he said. It takes $800m under the Australian Council of Local Government Associations proposals to employ 50,000 people for a year. If we subtract the unemployment benefit that might be saved in that way the figure will come down to $675m. That is the real cost of employing 50,000 on the government payroll through such a scheme. The Leader of the Opposition also said that he would increase spending on the National Employment and Training scheme to double what it was last year. That would involve an extra cost of $ 168m. He said that he would reduce petrol prices. I have taken as a reasonable reduction in petrol prices, if he wanted to make some impact at the petrol pump, the $830m which represents this year's increase.. The Leader of the Opposition is totally opposed to the transfer of health costs from the public purse to private insurance and an increase from pharmaceutical benefits of some $200m. In his speech to the New South Wales Labor Women's Committee he suggested massive Federal funding for State police forces. I have costed that spending at $S0m, which is about the cost to the Commonwealth of maintaining the Federal Police Force. 
These figures add up to a total extra spending commitment of $2,373m. Where is that money to come from? There have to be elastic estimates of where it will come from. At the National Press Club in March this year the Leader of the Opposition said that the soaking of the rich would bring in an extra $ 1,000m. In his speech on the Budget he had to increase that estimate to $ 1,500m. Obviously, he started to have a conscience about whether his Budget would balance. If he were to gain $ 1,500m extra in soaking the rich- we know what that means; it always creeps down the scale- the deficit before any tax cuts would be $873m. If he gained only $ 1,000m in additional tax revenue the deficit would be $ 1,373m before he had cut any taxes. In other words, this man is following a totally unreal economic course. The  Australian Financial Review  stated: 

 Mr Hayden 's approach is disingenuous and calculatingly so. He is playing to the basest emotions of the community at a time when a more responsible leader would be acknowledging the great difficulties facing the economy. 
That is why he did not bring in an alternative budget. That is why he gave that ranting address on Tuesday night which in no way faced up to the real problems of this nation. 
-Is the Minister for Health aware of concern expressed by administrators of women's refuges in New South Wales that Federal Government funding of existing refuges would be cut to enable new refuges to be established? Can he assure the House that the Government has no intention of reducing the funding of existing women 's refuges in New South Wales? 
I should like in the couple of remaining minutes to draw the attention of the House to the departure this evening for California of a group of 23 young Australians with an average age of 19 years, who make up the Young North Side Big Band. It is the first Australian group, amateur or professional, to have been invited to play at the Monterey Jazz Festival which is one of the three premier jazz festivals in the world. I am also pleased to say that these young people, who come from the Manly-Warringah area of Sydney, have been aided by a Federal Government grant of $5,000 to assist them to get to California. By their own efforts- giving concerts and running raffles and by doing various other thingsthey have raised most of the money they needed to get there. In fact, it cost them nearly $30,000 to do so. The Federal Government has been able to assist them to the extent of $5,000. This is a tremendous achievement for these young people. It is an amateur group which has built up its expertise over three years. It was heard by Count Basie when he was here in March. It was he who engineered the invitation for it, as the first group ever from Australia to play at this renowned world jazz festival in Monterey in California. 
It is a week since I heard an argument presented with so little logic and it is a week since I heard the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  speak on the subject of employment. The honourable member is often invited to speak to employer groups on the subject of industrial relations. The Government was not invited to the Australian Council of Trade Unions Congress. According to the logic of the honourable member, it seems to follow that Government is somehow or other stupid and that the labour movement is somehow or other broadminded because it does not invite the Government to speak at its Congress whereas employer groups invite the honourable member for Port Adelaide to speak at their various luncheons and so on. It would seem from the peculiar logic that the honourable member has developed through his speech that he, the Austraiian Labor Party and the labour movement through the ACTU are more broadminded in their approach to industrial relations than the Government. I ask the general public to make its own decision on that. 
The honourable member also said that the Government accuses the Labor Party of standing up for the trade unions and the wage and salary earners of this country and not for the employers. He has got it absolutely wrong. We have not at any time accused the Labor Party of standing up for the wage and salary earners of this country. Indeed, this evening the Minister for Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  cited research statistics which showed that 63 per cent of union members do not believe that union pressure for wage increases is supported by the rank and file. Furthermore, 59 per cent of those questioned agreed that wage increases these days often mean that someone else loses a job and that two-thirds believed that wage increases will not really help. What we are really accusing the Opposition of is not that it does not stand up  Ibr  the trade unions- that is not true; we would be quite happy to accuse it of that- but that it is not really standing up for the proper interests of wage and salary earners in this country. Wage policy is inextricably linked with industrial relations policies. What happens to wages has a major impact on prices, on inflation and consequently on jobs. It is not just a matter of economic theory; it is a matter of practical experience. We all know it from our experience in Australia in 1974 during the period of the Labor Government. Everybody understands it. If wages go up rapidly, prices go up. People demand still higher wages to keep up, and that sends prices up again. No one gains when that chase begins. After a while it begins to affect jobs. No one overseas owes us a living. Australia has to remain competitive; people who are trying to produce goods and to sell them overseas understand that. If our wages go up employers try to remain competitive by cutting wage costs. They begin to save on people and so employment begins to fall. 
The former Labor Treasurer,  Mr Crean,  recognised this when he said that one man's pay rise is another man's job. People who were interviewed in the survey recognised this when 63 per cent of union members said they did not believe that union pressure for wage increases was supported by the rank and file and 59 per cent agreed that wage increases these days often meant that someone else lost a job. Two-thirds believed that wage increases would not really help. In office, Labor politicians begin to realise this inescapable fact. Last week in the debate on unemployment I quoted from the 1978 Budget Speech of the Labour Chancellor of the Exchequer in the United Kingdom,  Mr Healey.  He said:  lt remains as true as ever that inflation is the main enemy of full employment. Monetary policy will be one decisive factor here. But our price competitiveness will also depend crucially on reducing industrial costs, of which wages are bound to remain much the most important element. 
In office, the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  in his 1 975 Budget Speech said: 
If wages and salaries continue to outstrip productivity increases, the productive capacity of the economy will decline and we shall all eventually be worse off. 
Meanwhile, however, it is clear that some wage and salary pressures are unrealistic and, when successful, harmful. It does employees generally no good to get higher and higher money incomes if the results are just higher prices, a severe squeeze on profits, a slump in new investments and a contraction of job opportunities. 
These are statements by two Labor Party Chancellors in office-  Mr Healey  in the United Kingdom followed by  Mr Hayden  in Australia. But what do we have now? Firstly, we have an Australian Labor Party economic policy which was described by the New South Wales Premier,  Mr Wran,  as a hotch-potch, and described by  Mr Hawke  as a sell-out to the Left. Let me quote, as the Minister for Industrial Relations did, from this particular ALP policy - 
I would like people to understand exactly what this policy says. Honourable members opposite are interjecting because they do not want me to read the Labor policy on economics coming from the Adelaide conference, but I will continue to read it: 
With the understanding and co-operation of the trade union movement, (Labor would) develop and implement a policy which will encompass prices, wage incomes, nonwage incomes, the social wage, taxation reform, and elimination of tax avoidance, and which will achieve a more equitable distribution of our national wealth and income, with the commitment to supporting the maintenance of real wages by quarterly adjustment and the passing on of the benefits of productivity. 
That replaced the resolution which was intended to mean something. It was arranged over a luncheon by  Mr Hayden  with the left wing of the Labor Party. It does not in any way indicate the concern that  Mr Healey  or  Mr Hayden  expressed when they were both in office about the link between wages policy and inflation, between wages policy and employment, between wages policy and rising prices. If one compares Labor policy with what  Mr Denis  Healey said as Labour Chancellor with what  Mr Hayden  said when he was Treasurer, one sees that it bears no relationship to what either of them said. That is only the first step. The sell-out to the Left in Adelaide was followed by  Mr Hawke  's sell-out at the Australian Council of Trade Unions Congress this week. Perhaps disheartened by the way he was treated by  Mr Hayden  he was in no heart to stand up to the Left himself at his own conference. We all heard what  Mr Hawke  said earlier this week on the news with his usual bombast and threats. What did he say? In the  Australian  of Tuesday, 1 1 September,  Mr Hawke  is reported as saying: 
We have indicated that we are prepared to sit down with government and employers, with all the facts on the table, in a constructive attempt to achieve what is best for the people of this country - 

 -Mr Deputy Chairman, I intend to direct my remarks to the word 'ultimately'. Obviously there is a problem in this debate in that the Opposition is suggesting that by omitting the word 'ultimately' all the complaints that have been expressed by its members against paragraph (a) of sub-clause ( 1 ) of clause 5 will somehow be eliminated. I just cannot understand that reasoning. For the information of anybody coming from Mars or anybody who has just turned on his radio I point out what we are actually discussing at the moment is the definition of the word 'subversion', which is an extremely difficult matter. After stripping out the words that are not immediately relevant in the clause, clause 5(1) reads: 
For the purposes of this Act, the activities of persons  . . that are to be regarded as subversion are- 
activities that involve, will involve or lead to, or are intended or likely ultimately to involve or lead to, the use of force or violence or other unlawful acts . . . 
The remarks of Opposition members are intended to suggest that by leaving out the word ultimately' all of their objections will somehow disappear. It strikes me that most of their remarks have been directed towards attacking the idea of defining 'subversion' in any form. If the word 'ultimately' were crossed out, we would still be left with such phrases as 'or lead to'. It strikes me that that phrase is very much in the same context as the word 'ultimately'. I think that the matter of individual judgment which has to be applied is no less severe when a person looks at the words 'or lead to' than it is when he looks at the word 'ultimately'. In other words, even if the Government were to accept the amendment put forward by the Opposition I fail to see how that would put its fears to rest. 
In fact, the speech of the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones)  and the speech of the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  were directed, it seemed to me, against any definition of the word 'subversion '. Does the Opposition really want to eliminate any definition of the word 'subversion'? Basically I challenge the honourable member for Lalor in this matter because he seemed to be asking a series of questions. He seemed to be asking whether there really was any such thing as subversion which could be defined within the Australian community. He asked honourable members on the Government side to give examples of subversion. My friend, the honourable and gallant member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham)  gave an excellent example of what was meant. 
I think one could quite easily consider contemporary examples of the same kind. Unless the Opposition can come up with substantial arguments related specifically to the one word which it asks us to withdraw and unless it can explain how the withdrawal of that one word will remove all of its objections to that part of the clause, I am afraid I will have to support the retention of that word. I believe that the definition of 'subversion' is an extraordinarily difficult thing. I do not think any of us on either side of the House are particularly happy about the necessity to have a security intelligence organisation. None of us is particularly happy about having to get down to the rather dreadful business of defining the word 'subversion'. I feel very sorry indeed for the draftsmen who have to come up with a definition which will somehow deal with all kinds of possible actions which could lead to the destruction of our society and which does not in any way infringe individual liberties. 
To me it is an almost impossible task. Certainly members of the Opposition acknowledged that point when they said that there was an element of individual judgment in this matter. I cannot see how it would make any difference to the ASIO operator, at whatever level, in his selection of a matter for a file if the word 'ultimately' were left out. I am not a draftsman; I am not a legal person. I find it difficult to see the need for all the words in the paragraph concerned. The one thing that I am absolutely certain of is that the removal of this one word would not remove the objections of the Opposition to that part of the clause. 
-We are discussing clause 5 ( 1 ) (b) of the Australian Security Intelligence Organization Bill to which the Opposition has moved an amendment which seeks to insert the word 'unlawful' before the word 'activities'. The clause at present provides that activities regarded as subversion will include:  activities directed to obstructing, hindering or interfering with the performance by the Defence Force of its functions or the carrying out of other activities by or for the Commonwealth for the purposes of security or the defence of the Commonwealth; 
The Opposition seeks to insert the word 'unlawful' before the word 'activities 'so that before the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation is able to regard an activity as a matter requiring attention that activity should be unlawful. There are a couple of points I would like to make about this. The first is that activities have to be directed to obstructing, hindering, et cetera. It is not enough that the activities simply obstruct or hinder, et cetera. For example, something could happen inadvertently. The defence forces, in the course of their duties, may be obstructed by something on the road which had got there for whatever reason - 
-The honourable member for Lalor will please restrain himself. I am coming to that point. The fact is that the activities must be directed to obstructing. In other words, there must be some intention to obstruct. For example, there has to be an intention to obstruct the defence forces in the performance of their duty, not just some activity that they may be engaged in but activity which is for the purposes of security or defence of the Commonwealth. On the interpretation of this particular clause there is that restriction. 
As with all the clauses in the ASIO Bill, there is a question of judgment on the part of ASIO as to what is considered subversive under this particular clause. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  has suggested- and I am grateful to him for raising this example- that there could be industrial activities which could obstruct the Defence Force in the performance of its functions. One could easily imagine something happening on the wharves, as the honourable member suggested, which might make it impossible for the Army or the Navy to receive materials which may be essential for a particular defence purpose. Therefore the point is that although these activities may not be strictly unlawful under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, nonetheless the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation may feel that it is obliged to build up a file on those engaged in these activities. This is a very interesting example because it raises quite an important point. 
I think that it would be possible to have a trade union activity which in itself was lawful but which was being engaged in with the objective of obstructing the defence forces in the performance of their legitimate duties. I think we have to be very realistic in our consideration of this matter because there are certain elements within the trade union movement- and I hasten to add, before anybody from the Opposition side jumps on me, that they are extreme minority elementswhich would not be democratic in their intentions. It is conceivable that such people could make use of an industrial situation to carry out activities which were designed to restrain the defence forces in their legitimate activities. 
The situation, in the present context, is perhaps not as serious as it could be in a future context. I draw the Committee's attention to the recent decisions taken at the Australian Labor Party Conference in Adelaide. This is quite important because within the decisions of the conference in Adelaide were a number of resolutions which related to the legal position of trade unions and trade unionists. Resolutions were passed at that conference which sought to remove the activities of unionists from judical oversight in very significant respects. I suggest that the Committee should regard this with the utmost seriousness. As this legislation presumably will last for a number of years and as it is not inconceivable- perish the thought- that there could be a change of government, and as the principal Opposition party has decided at its annual conference that the trade union movement will be removed from certain judicial restraints, legal restraints, it is quite possible that trade unionists could be in a position of being able to indulge in certain activities which are quite legal under Commonwealth law but which quite clearly could obstruct the defence forces in their essential duties. 
I am not drawing a long bow here in any respect because the principal Opposition party passed at its Adelaide conference a number of resolutions which would remove trade unions and trade unionists from legal restraint. I point out that its resolutions are binding on the parliamentary members of its Party. Within that context, I think it would be essential for a security intelligence organisation to be able to make a determination of its own as to whether activities, which under the statutory arrangements were lawful or unlawful, were directed to obstructing, hindering or interfering with the performance by the Defence Force of its functions out of other activities by or for the Commonwealth for the purposes of security or the defence of the Commonwealth. I think, therefore, that it is essential for us to retain this clause in its present form. 
There is a secondary argument which I think I should mention. I should think that under the various defence Acts- again, I am not totally familiar with all aspects of the law- activities directed to obstructing, hindering, et cetera would be, ipso facto, illegal. I cannot imagine that the Defence Act or the various laws relating to the defence forces would allow members of the general population to obstruct, hinder or interfere with the performance of those forces when they were engaging in activities for the purposes of security or the defence of the Commonwealth, without deeming them to be acting illegally. To a degree, one could say that under this clause activities directed to doing those things would be illegal anyway. I would not want to have a situation in which a person employed by the Security Intelligence Organisation had to think about 400 times whether a particular activity was strictly legal or illegal before that person observed it as something which was potentially subversive. 
It is important to retain this sub-clause in its original condition. I do not think that the Opposition's amendment is a good one. In particular, I do not think that it is wise to accept this amendment, in view of the decisions of the Australian Labor Party Conference in Adelaide which sought to remove the trade union movement and members of unions from judicial restraint. Under that decision, if it were enacted by a Labor government, the Security Intelligence Organisation would be quite restrained specifically by this clause from taking note of activities which could be absolutely subversive because of the particular quirk of the government of the day as to what it regarded as legal or illegal. 
-Is the Treasurer aware of arguments, advanced during his absence abroad, that the time has come to allow an increase in inflation in order to improve the employment situation? Did he find any evidence overseas to suggest that an improvement in employment prospects could be achieved by allowing the inflation rate to rise? 
It would be difficult for anybody coming from Mars to understand that the present industrial machine is somehow able at the moment to employ somewhere between 93 per cent and 94 per cent of the Australian work force. I make that simple point in order to restore some sense of perspective into this debate. I would also like to make the point that - 
The honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young),  who is interjecting at the moment, has not made the kind of case that he might have made had he followed the arguments put forward by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  in a recent speech to the Printing and Kindred Industries Union. Nor is it the case he would have made if he had read the decisions of the Australian Labor Party Conference in Adelaide in July of this year. In the Leader of the Opposition's speech, and in this document, there is an attempt to speak about the problems of technological change in industry. I quote from the speech made by the Leader of the Opposition in Sydney on Thursday 18 October where he said: 
Let me make one thing clear. It is indisputable that technological change is inevitable in the operation of our industrial system. 
In the next sentence he makes a more unacceptable claim. He says: 
The task of government is to remain in control of that change . . . 
Later on in his speech he says: 
A Luddite approach seeking to block changes is too despairing to tolerate and too damaging to the future welfare of the country. 
I would hope that the honourable member for Port Adelaide would take that as a rebuke. The Leader of the Opposition went on to say: 
Similarly, a foolish panglossian belief in the undiluted virtues of unregulated change will have disastrous social consequences as well as damaging economic effects. 
I would say to honourable members on both sides of the House, in common with the Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee)  who has just spoken, very reasonably, in this debate, who have a very genuine concern about what will happen in this whole area, that we have to reject utterly the divisive and fear creating speeches made by the honourable member for Port Adelaide. I exclude the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones)  from this charge because he has made a constructive contribution to this debate since he has come to this Parliament. He did so previously in the Victorian Parliament. It simply will not do to have a tirade week after week of the kind that is put forward by the honourable member for Port Adelaide and which creates fear in the community. 
A couple of weeks ago I had the opportunity to act as an observer at an Association of South East Asian Nations conference in Bangkok. It was something of a learning experience to see the vibrations and enthusiasm in regard to development in those countries in an attempt to try to do something for their people. It is almost impossible to believe that a country like Australia, sitting on the edge of this extraordinary explosion of effort, of demand and of requirement by the people for simple things, cannot participate in that expansion and development. There is a complementary aspect of our prospective skills. If we follow the programs that are suggested by the Minister for Productivity there are hundreds of thousands of things that we can do here in much greater numbers. We can contribute to the development of those and other countries and at the same time find satisfying and useful employment for our young people. Both internally and externally we are faced with the humanitarian task of participating in that development. 
Most of the debate that has come forward on this subject relates to an internal obsession of the developed countries. How can we possibly keep talking about stopping growth or technological change in a world where two-thirds of the people still have not got basic material necessities? How can we possibly continue to be so negative about this? Last week in Australia  Mr John  Garnett, the Director of the Industrial Society in the United Kingdom, spoke to a group of Government members. During that speech he talked about the responsibilities of management and supervisors in industry in getting across to workerstrie people in the industries- a sense of participation in what was going on. In the course of questions somebody asked him about technological change. He said that a hundred years ago in England over three-quarters of the population was taken up in rural pursuits or in domestic service. If we look at the statistics today - 
We can take it back a bit further. He may have said that it was more than a hundred years ago. If we look at the statistics today we will find that about 4 per cent of the population is indulging in rural activities and virtually none in domestic service.  Mr Garnett  said: What if our forefathers had said at that time that we must introduce government-regulated control of industrial or technological change in order to preserve those particular occupations'? We certainly would have consigned those people to hundreds of years of servitude. There would not have been any release of their energies, opportunities and skills. Today, there is no argument which would suggest that we should do otherwise than to examine carefully- and with all due regard to humanitarian aspects both internally and externally- the benefits and difficulties of technology. 
Let me give one simple example. People keep talking about the microprocessor industry and microchips, and the difficulties in terms of employment. In February I visited the British Oxygen Company in England which had developed a welding robot. It was not a spot welding robot of the kind that makes motor cars. It was a more complicated welding robot which was able to do seam welding at a level of expertise as good as that of the very best welder. Naturally, we asked the question: How many people will this welding robot put out of employment? The people in England said: 'From the applications we have looked at so far we find that there is an extreme shortage of people who are skilled and who are prepared to do the hot, dirty and difficult work of welding of this kind '. In the applications where this machine has been used it has been able to turn out the equivalent of the work of six skilled welders. The net result of that has not been to throw any welders out of work, because such welders are not available; it has been to create additional employment for less skilled people who have to feed the welding process, both in the supply of materials and in the sale and distribution of the finished product. 
All I can say to industry- both industrial management and the trade union movement- in Australia is that Australia is extraordinarily well placed. We are not well placed to go into the mass production of microchips, which is something that has to be done on a scale of which we are not capable. But we have sufficiently good engineers and managers to develop applications of microprocessors in Australia which will not only create employment in manufacturing industries but also in the process remove a number of extremely unpleasant jobs in existing manufacturing industry. It will create wealth which can be redistributed amongst various people in various ways. It can also provide, as micro processing applications are developed further, work for unskilled people who can carry out extremely skilled operations with the aid of these devices. After all, the end product of a microprocessor is to make simple something that is complicated. Therefore, there is a capacity for such machines to provide work for unskilled people. 
The Government's view on this matter is one of very cautious optimism. The Government does not believe that we should overturn the experience that we have gained since the beginning of the industrial revolution as new ideas have come forward. We believe that these new ideas exist to make life better for people, to relieve them of tedious and dreadful work and also to create the wealth which can be suitably redistributed to the benefit of the whole society. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The discussion is concluded. 
I want to raise tonight the question of a Press release which has been put out by  Mr Ray  Aitchison, the Executive Director of the Australian Confederation of Apparel Manufacturers. In this Press release  Mr Aitchison  makes quite an extreme attack on the Industries Assistance Commission following the issue of its draft report on the textile, clothing and footwear industries. When the draft report was first issued a few weeks ago  Mr Aitchison  's organisation attempted to have the 
Government abort the process of public hearings on this report and asked the Government to reject the draft findings without further consideration. The Government very sensibly rejected this appeal and decided to proceed with the ordinary processes of the inquiry.  Mr Aitchison  and his organisation have been appearing in these hearings. But not content with going through that process, once again they have made an outrageous attack on the integrity of the Commission itself. I would like to quote a little from  Mr Aitchison  's document. It states: 
Prejudiced reports and antagonistic public inquiries by the Industries Assistance Commission. 
Later on the document states: 
That it had become well known that the Commission was following an economic policy of its own, irrespective of what government was in power. 

 Mr Aitchison refers later to the irresponsibility of the Commission. He said even further: 
The Confederation suggested that the Government should examine recent IAC reports to ascertain if it had adopted the outrageous ploy of bringing out its recommendations in the blind and then picking and choosing from public evidence to obtain vague reassurance to government concerning the likely social and employment impact. 
I believe that crude attempts like this to damage the Commission are a reflection not only on the worth and integrity of the Commission but also a reflection on the intelligence of members of this Parliament. Over the last 20 months or so that I have been a member of this Parliament I have taken a particular interest in industrial matters. I have read many of the reports of the Industries Assistance Commission. In general, I have found that these reports have been well argued. In general, I have found that the submissions made by industry groups when they attack these reports are less well argued. It is not always the case. Some industry groups put very good arguments and do, in fact, address the arguments put by the Industries Assistance Commission. But the Australian Confederation of Apparel Manufacturers is outstanding in the fact that it in no way attempts to refute the specific arguments when it speaks to members of Parliament but makes generalised attacks on the process and on the integrity of the Commission. 
It is not expected that everybody will agree with the reports of the Commission. I can understand that industrialists will find these inquiries irksome and time-consuming. But some price has to be paid for the public support which eventually comes out of these hearings and inquiries. The whole purpose of the Industries Assistance Commission is to recommend to the Government. It does not make the policies as  Mr Aitchison  claims. Its object is to recommend to the Government on what measures the Government might take to support those industries, either by bounty, tariff or some other means whereby public moneys or private moneys in the form of tariffs, duties or extra prices paid in shops might be given to those industries in order to support their employment against imports from countries where the cost of labour may be less, or for other reasons the price of manufacture of those goods might be less. This is a perfectly reasonable process. 
I can fully understand that industries which feel themselves to be under some threat- this is particularly true of the clothing, textile and footwear industries- can survive only behind tariff barriers; that these would feel very concerned whenever they were being looked at by the Industries Assistance Commission. But it has to be said in all fairness that the public discussion of the amount of support that is to be given must be supported by this Parliament. This Parliament therefore must support the Commission and its integrity. It does not necessarily have to accept all its arguments but it must reject this kind of emotional outburst of which  Mr Aitchison  is guilty in this particular case. 
I was amused to hear the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  speaking about the professors of politics that do come into the House these days. But, of course, there are professors of politics of various sorts. I would hope that the honourable member for Hindmarsh would see himself as a professor of politics in the truest sense of the word in that he is very learned in these matters. One would certainly like to regard him, when he leaves this chamber, as a professor emeritus of politics. 
-The honourable member suggests that he might change his mind. I am sure that is a matter entirely for his side of the House. The matter I would like to address myself to before passing on to departmental Estimates is that touched upon by the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde)  and the honourable member for Bonython  (Dr Blewett).  I would certainly like to support the general thrust of their remarks in favour of a continuation of the Estimates committees as they have been set up this year, with a number of improvements that I think might be brought about. The general tenor of the remarks of the honourable member for Moore related to the nature of the material that should be presented to these committees. Certainly, I find the nature of the material deficient, particularly in the financial sense and particularly in a sense that there is not enough project information. This, of course, relates to the whole budgeting approach of governments. I would support his remarks about the necessity to improve the whole budgeting process so that we know more about individual projects and their worth in relation to other projects. We ought to know which ones are just continuations, which ones are new and which ones might be cut back in much more detail so that we can discuss them more adequately. 
The criticisms of the committees made by the honourable member for Bonython, which were made in a general context of support for them, I think, are quite valid. I hope that his remarks will be noticed by those who are looking at these matters, particularly by the honourable member for Moore. I think it would be to the benefit of the whole House and the Australian community generally if we had more time to question in greater detail, if we had preparatory time, if we had the papers earlier as suggested by the honourable member for Bonython. I think it is essential that we regard this experiment as a thin edge of the wedge and not as an unsuccessful experiment as some honourable members would claim. I think it is quite easy to criticise something that has been done less well than it might have been done. Following the experiment this year, I think there are a number of improvements we can make next year and in subsequent years. 
In a paper written recently by  Mr James  Walter, a research student in the Parliamentary Library, about what he termed- I do not like the word much- the aculturation of new members to this Parliament, a number of points were made about the views that the new members had about the usefulness of the Parliament itself compared with the usefulness of the committees in the party rooms and other things that went on that were not in the public gaze. I believe these are valid criticisms of this chamber, in particular. I believe a great deal more of much more profound significance should occur within the public gaze. I believe that a more intelligent use of this mechanism of Estimates committees and legislation committees would be a very good way of bringing that about. I certainly think that all of us should be able to feel just as proud of the work we do in public, within the committees or this chamber, as we do behind the scenes in the party committees or in the party rooms. I think the general direction of that must improve over the life, at least, of those members who have come into the Parliament since 1977 and who have expressed these views as reported by this research fellow. 
I would like now to pass on to the estimates for the Department of Employment and Youth Affairs. I would like to take up the question of unemployment and inflation which, of course, is right in the midst of the political issues of our time. Recently, we had some statements from churchmen, from social workers, from economists and other quite genuinely concerned people in the community expressing the view that the Government can no longer give priority to fighting inflation 'at the expense of the unemployed'. They say: 'We must ease off our battle against inflation in order to allow employment to increase. The social cost of the beat-inflation-first strategy is too great'. The  Sydney Morning Herald  recently conducted a survey on people's attitudes to unemployment and reported with a headline 'Division remains on priorities'. It is important to understand that the question 'Would you be prepared to accept an increase in inflation in order to reduce unemployment?' is nonsensical. If inflation rises, unemployment will rise too. There is no trade-off between inflation and unemployment. 
Well intentioned social workers delude themselves and those they serve when they make these social conscience statements. One would have thought that the experience of the last few years would have taught everyone the lesson that if prices rise in an inflationary manner, pressures build up for wages to rise in compensation. Because of the effect of taxes, which take out part of the return from wages, the wage claims usually will be for more than the increase in prices. When wages go up employers seek to make economies and reduce staff, thus adding to the unemployed. Rising inflation also creates uncertainty in the business climate, making investors wary and leading management to delay spending on new projects until prices stabilise. Employment is therefore lost in the capital goods industries which supply the buildings and equipment, and, of course, the new jobs are not found in the new facilities that would have been created had these investment decisions been made. 
In response to this argument, the Labor Party says: 'You have had four years to reduce unemployment by reducing inflation and it has not worked. The time has now come to reverse this policy and provide jobs'. That is what we hear every day from the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  and others. This is equivalent to the case of a driver going down a hill with brakes that are not working very well but which at least are slowing the car down, being advised to take his foot ofl" the brake and place it on the accelerator. A moment's reflection shows just how silly the argument is. Yet, it is amazing how many community leaders start to use it when they panic over unemployment. 
The other argument often used is that jobs should be created by government spending. The trouble with this solution is that increased government spending must be balanced by increased taxation, otherwise it is inflationary. Increased taxation removes some of the spending capacity of individuals and firms and makes them able to purchase fewer goods, and therefore jobs are lost in the private sector. We must, remember that from May 1974 to May 1975, under the Labor Government, 100,000 extra jobs were provided on the public payroll. But over the same period 155,000 jobs were lost in the private sector, making a net loss of jobs in that period of 55,000. During that period, of course, prices, wages and taxes all rose alarmingly. The only ways to achieve a lasting improvement in the employment situation are either through a general economic upturn or, alternatively, through the removal of rigidities in the labour market. Now, the difficulty in removing rigidities in the labour market- for example, the high wages for unskilled juniors relative to their real worth to an employer, penalty rates of various kinds and manning restrictions of various kinds- is that it involves the reduction of privileges of the employed currently entrenched in industrial awards. Of course, as we all know, there are constitutional and practical barriers in the way of doing this. Nonetheless, I think that we should examine all these awards to see where there are restrictions which are creating unemployment. We must try to do something about those awards. 
-by leave-Mr  Deputy  Speaker; I present the official report of the Australian Parliamentary delegation to the Second General Assembly of the Association of South East Asian Nations Inter-Parliamentary Organisation held in Bangkok from 27 September to 3 October 1979 and seek leave to make a short statement in connection with the report. 
Leave granted. 
I am pleased to be able to report to the House that the Australian observer delegation to the Second General Assembly of the ASEAN Inter-Parliamentary Organisation, known as AIPO, in Bangkok at the end of September believes that it made a worthwhile contribution to building relationships with our ASEAN neighbours. There are four good reasons why this type of exercise is valuable: Firstly, parliamentary, as opposed to ministerial or other governmental meetings allow for more flexible discussion of issues without the same degree of restraint that must be exercised by Ministers or officials. We found that we were able to discuss quite sensitive matters affecting Australia's relationships with ASEAN countries on a politician-to-politician basis, with a good understanding on both sides of domestic political considerations. There was no need for us to adopt carefully prepared stances and as a result we felt that we and they learnt more. Secondly, a conference restricted to a particular region such as ASEAN tends to deal with much more tangible problems than conferences of broader scope such as that of the Inter-Parliamentary Union. In this case, agenda items such as the Indo-China problem took on the urgency that might be expected when a war was in progress only 300 kilometres from the conference room. 
Thirdly, the conference has advantages over a visit by a delegation in that there is time to get to know a group of people- one's fellow parliamentarians from other countries- sufficiently well to pursue issues in depth and to maintain contact in future years. At this conference, with the help of the renowned Thai hospitality, we were able to get to know most of the delegates and as a result, we feel we have made friends in each of the ASEAN parliaments. That must help to improve our understanding of our region. The final benefit that I would like to mention is that when parliamentarians from both sides of the House are away from Canberra, they tend to emphasise those things that unite them rather than those things that divide. The Honourable Bert Kelly said in his book  One More Nail: 
Members of Parliament perform much better when they think they are not being watched or listened to on the radio. 
Let me say that I enjoyed the company of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  and  Senator Baden  Teague on this delegation and record that our respective party affiliations were of secondary importance as we represented the Australian Parliament overseas. We members of the delegation commend to the Parliament and to the Government the value of a continuing close association with the ASEAN Inter-Parliamentary Organisation. In March 1980 there will be an opportunity for us to receive in Australia a delegation from AIPO. We must make sure that we make the most of that visit. The delegation has acknowledged in its report its indebtedness to a number of people who assisted it in the course of its duties. May I, in addition, thank my colleagues the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and  Senator Baden  Teague for the part they played in making our participation in the Assembly a success. 
