My question is directed to the Minister for National Resources and Minister for Overseas Trade. I ask the Minister whether following his recent visit to Japan there is a much greater understanding by the Japanese Government and Japanese businessmen of the Australian Government's intentions concerning the development and export of steaming and coking coal to Japan. I also ask the Minister whether his visit to Japan has done much to improve Australia's overall commercial relations with that nation after 3 years of Labor government. 
-Is the Minister for Repatriation aware of the recent change, which nas been widely welcomed, in the payment provisions for pensions administered by the Department of Social Security whereby pensioners now can have cheques paid direct into their bank accounts? Is he also aware that a similar provision does not exist for recipients of repatriation payments other than on a quarterly in arrears basis? Will he consider taking steps to put the method of payment of repatriation compensation on the same basis as that now applying to recipients of social security benefits? 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I am delighted to support the motion before the House which was so ably moved by the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Sainsbury)  and seconded by the honourable member for Dawson  (Mr Braithwaite),  and to reject the amendment moved earlier today. I am sorry that my speech is following that of the previous  speaker,  given the content of his remarks tonight. It is a great personal pleasure for me to join others in congratulating  Mr Speaker  on his election to such a high and important office and the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock)  on his restoration to his near traditional position of  Deputy Speaker  and  Chairman  of Committees. 
I am deeply honoured simply to be a member of this House. I am even more honoured because I represent the people of the electorate of Ballaarat. I thank the people of my electorate very sincerely indeed for reposing their trust in me to represent them in Canberra for the next 3 years, and I hope for many years beyond that. I can only assure them that I shall strive with all my ability to justify their trust in me. The Ballaarat seat has now had 9 occupants. There have been some notable names amongst them. The most well known and illustrious was Alfred Deakin, three times Prime Minister of Australia. For the past 20 years the seat was represented by the honourable Dudley Erwin. He was a wonderful local representative and also a fine parliamentarian who achieved high office in government. It is with considerable humility that I attempt to fill his shoes, both in this House and in Ballaarat. I echo the sentiments of the whole of my electorate in wishing him health and success in the years ahead. 
The  sine qua non  of responsible and efficient government is a close relationship with and a mutual respect and trust between the government of the day and the Public Service. In recent days I have been appalled to listen in this chamber to a vilification by certain honourable members of the Public Service and the Treasury in particular. The attack has come principally from the other side of the House. Regrettably, however, it has been echoed by certain honourable members on my own side. As an officer of the Public Service for 20 years before entering Parliament- the last dozen of those in the Treasury- I can only deplore such attacks. Even more is this so when individual officers are singled out for vilification as was done by the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  last week. The senior officers of the Treasury, and indeed of all Public Service policy departments, are dedicated, highly qualified professionals whose objective advice no government can afford to ignore. Those officers have made a greater contribution to responsible government and to the well-being of all Australians than the likes of the honourable member for Hindmarsh could make if he sat here for 100 years. 
That is not to say that the Public Service will always be correct in the advice it gives. Of course it will not. I believe there is real point in the argument that key policy departments are often too remote from the world outside Canberra. But equally, the world outside Canberra is frequently too close to its own affairs and individual interests to see issues objectively and in the overall national interest. The solution is not to pay no heed to one side or the other but rather to pool the particular expertise, experience and opinions of the various parties. Only in this way can the best advice by distilled. The remarkable economic performances of countries like Japan and Germany in the past quarter of a century can, I believe, be attributed in large measure to such an approach to decision making. All sections of the community have a role to play in this processunions, employees, employers, both large and small, industry groups, consumers, representatives of welfare and social organisations, academics, the Public Service and the Government. It is a major responsibility of government to ensure that the necessary machinery is established to facilitate such consultative processes. I am delighted to see that in many areas the Government has taken steps already to get the machinery side of things all right. I urge the 
Government to continue to place much importance on this aspect of its activities. 
Equally important I also urge interested parties outside government to ensure that their own houses are sufficiently in order to be able to participate effectively. I have particularly in mind here certain rural industries where, too frequently, the members of the industry are not sufficiently cohesive and unified when approaching the Government. But the establishment of the machinery is not enough in itself. There must as well be a real wish and a will on all sides to participate and contribute constructively and cooperatively. 
I turn now to several aspects of the GovernorGeneral's Speech. I will restrict my remarks principally to economic issues. However, it is not possible to set aside economic issues from other issues. There is a vital inter-relationship between economic, social, migration, environmental, education, defence and other issues. Decisions taken in any one area generally affect the other areas. At the end of the day it must be a question of determining overall priorities. It is an old saying, but a true one that you cannot get a quart out of a pint pot. We do not have a limitless pit of resources in Australia, nor can we draw without limit on the resources of other countries. 
One of the cardinal errors of the Labor Government was that it did not recognise this simple yet fundamental truth. The Whitlam Government tried to do everything at once. In so doing, it introduced such a degree of capriciousness and incompetence into government policy making and administration as to destroy confidence throughout the entire community and to destroy the ability of the private sector- large and small business alike- to produce the real resources needed if Labor's social welfare and other programs were ever to be fulfilled. It decimated the rural sector without any apparent regard or concern for the consequences. It alienated several of our major trading partners. It took such a xenophobic and obsessive approach to foreign investment in Australia that it brought to their knees several vital sectors of the economy which rely heavily of foreign investment, notably the minerals sector. It ignored the major contribution that foreign investment has made in developing Australia throughout its history and which it will be required to continue to make in the future. In short, Labor killed the goose that laid the golden egg. In so doing, it killed any hope of achieving the goals- many of them desirable- that it had set itself. 
I congratulate the Government on the start that it has made since December in picking up the pieces. There can be no doubt that the general thrust of its economic policies has been along the right lines in that it has been directed at the number one problem facing Australia- inflation. Unless inflation is brought down to an acceptable level we will never be able to solve our other problems, particularly those of unemployment and high interest rates. Nor will we be able to build for the future, provide for the needy in our community, or improve all those things that need improving in this country such as health, child care, roads and so on. Only by drastically curtailing the rate of increase in government expenditure can the Budget deficit be reduced substantially in other than the very long term. 
Why is it imperative that the Budget deficit be reduced much earlier? It is imperative because if it is not reduced we will continue to have the situation of imbalance between fiscal and monetary policy which characterised the last 2 years of the Whitlam Government. Such imbalance throws the whole weight of economic management onto monetary POliCY. The consequences of this in terms of the level of interest rates and of rapid changes in the availability of money are all too obvious from the events of the last 2 years. The people of Australia must recognise that unless the Budget deficit is reduced there is no way in the world that the interest rate structure can be lowered. Indeed, if the deficit were to continue at its present enormous level during the period when economic recovery gains momentum, then interest rates would have to rise. 
An important question is the time scale over which the deficit should be majorly reduced. The deficit, through its effects on overall liquidity, will have its most horrendous inflationary consequences when consumer demand picks up substantially. It is a matter of some judgment as to when this may occur. What we must ensure, though, is that liquidity in the economy is not excessive at that stage, otherwise we will be back into the boom and bust era and the inevitable problems of stop-go economic policy. In 1974 and 1975 the whole thrust of economic policy was in the wrong direction and in a state of utter confusion. The new Government has corrected this. Australia is now moving in the right direction, thanks to sensible and courageous policy decisions by the Government. But we are still in the early stages of recovery. Business and consumer psychology will be of the utmost importance in the months ahead. Hard decisions will have to be taken, and this means that more than ever a steady hand at the wheel of economic policy will be required. Too rapid a turn of that wheel, in whatever direction, could cause the ship of recovery to list. What we need is a return to a stable and long run growth path, and this requires a return to stable and reliable government. Labor tried to introduce change, both social and economic, too rapidly. We all suffered enormously. The rate of change is critical both to institutions and to people. If the rate of change is too rapid the system and the people who go to make up that system experience what Tomer has so appropriately described as 'future shock', to the lasting detriment of all concerned. 
Almost exactly 5 short months ago a man well versed in economic policy and one who is well known to us all in this House, and indeed to most Australians, made a major speech in Melbourne. It was such an excellent and well thought out speech that I should like to quote some extracts from it. The  speaker  said: 
It should be appreciated that there is a limit to the rate of change, to the level of activity, which can be funded from the public sector at any given time. 
A problem, and it is the basic economic problem of mankind, is that demands for resources are limitless but the supply of resources is finite. 
If the public is not prepared to pay higher taxes- and it seems that for the time being, at least, the public is not- then the Government must limit the level of expenditure. 
I believe that for the time being we have carried out as much change in the direction of a larger public sector as our political system will allow- indeed, we have strained the limits of public acceptability. 
Honourable members will note that a great deal of what I have quoted coincides very closely indeed with the types of things I have been trying to say tonight, which in turn are very similar to the Government's thinking. Who was the author of the address? It was the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  delivering the Arthur Calwell Memorial Lecture at Monash University on 22 September 1975. At that time he was Treasurer. It is the same honourable gentleman who harangued us earlier today with a  tour de force  of economic gobbledegook that would be hard to surpass. How difficult the honourable gentleman must have found it to speak as he did today. He did not believe what he was saying, we did not believe what he was saying, and the vast majority of Australians would not have believed it either. How difficult indeed he must find it to sit with the colleagues with whom he keeps political company. 
In concluding my remarks I wish to return to where I commenced, namely, the electorate of Ballaarat. I guess that most honourable members think of their own electorates as being somehow unique. I believe I have more cause for so thinking than many other members. Ballarat itself is steeped in the history of Australia. It is said by many that democracy in Australia was born in the 1850s at the Eureka Stockade. The wealth generated by the Ballarat gold fields had a major impact on the economic and social development of Victoria in the nineteenth century. Today the electorate is very much a mixture of primary, secondary and tertiary industry. For example, it is in the heart of the largest potato growing area in Australia and is an important area for sheep, beef and wheat. At the same time it has a considerable and highly diversified range of secondary industry centred mainly in the city of Ballarat itself but located as well throughout the rest of the electorate. Several firms are large employers of labour even by metropolitan standards. However, the main employers of labour in total arc small businesses. 
I am pleased to see the encouragement that is now being given to small businesses by the Government, and I am particularly delighted to see the change in the investment allowance that was announced yesterday by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch).  This change is to be applauded for its recognition of the problems facing small businesses including, in particular, rural producers. The electorate has several industries including footwear, textiles, roller bearings and other sections of engineering which are highly sensitive to the Government's tariff and related policies. In Ballarat we also have an area which in recent years- deservedly so- has become one of the main tourist centres in Australia. If any honourable gentlemen would at any time be contemplating the spending of the odd tourist dollar I would be happy to extol to them even more strongly the virtues of my electorate. 
The problems facing the electorate are much the same as those facing many other nonmetropolitan electorates. There is a need for greater facilities for both the aged and the very young, for the handicapped and for those who for a wide variety of reasons need assistance. I am proud to say that the electorate places great emphasis on self-help and voluntary effort in many of these areas but there are still many where only government can provide the necessary financial requirements. In present conditions the increasing calls on government will of necessity meet with a less than full response. It is for that very reason that the economic chaos of the past 3 years must be rectified as soon as possible to enable this nation to get on with the longer term tasks confronting it. 
It is not only welfare and social services to which this situation applies. Roads are another and serious case in point. Under the National Roads Act 1974 and the Roads Grant Act 1974 the proportion of Federal funds going to rural, local and arterial roads in Victoria is planned to fall from 22.5 per cent in 1974-75 to 8.8 per cent in 1976-77. In money terms the figures are $ 17.3m and $7.5m respectively. Rural local roads in 1 976-77 will be receiving 5.5 per cent of the Federal road grant despite the fact that in Victoria these roads comprise 74.6 per cent of the State's total road network. That is a situation which, in my view, is patently unjust and is leading to major deterioration in many rural roads. I would urge the Government to ensure that when funds for the next triennium are being determined rural local roads be given a more equitable proportion of the Federal funds for roads. 
The main point I wish to make about my electorate is the inter-relationship of the various components of the electorate.  Major setbacks  in the rural sector have a consequential effect on the manufacturing and commercial sectors in the electorate. Setbacks in the manufacturing sector, for whatever reason, have a consequential effect on the commercial sector, and so on. No one sector of the electorate can be considered in isolation. That point has particular significance insofar as the activities of the Industries Assistance Commission are concerned. I have the impression that the Commission does not always pay what I would consider necessary regard to the inter-relationship between the industry it is investigating at any one time and the other industries and activities of the area in which the industry is located. This is more significant in country areas than in cities where resources can more easily move from one industry to another without severe economic or social dislocation. In country areas resources displaced from one industry frequently cannot be readily absorbed in another even when the economy is far more buoyant than it is today. 
In his maiden speech in this place my predecessor said that the answers to our problems lie not so much in legislation as in the responsibility of the individual. Let it never be forgotten that government can do only so much. Its main role must be to create the right environment in which the community as a whole, all members of the community, can live and work and act with the maximum of individual freedom, economic prosperity, social wellbeing and human dignity. The rest is up to us.  Sir, I  thank you and honourable members on both sides of the House for hearing me out with such patience and courtesy. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Charles  Jones) adjourned. 
My question which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Education relates to the tertiary education assistance scheme. I ask: Is it a fact that under that scheme a student who is a widow and who has an income of $3,900 or more per annum is ineligible because of means test provisions for any assistance? Is it also a fact that if the widow 's husband had not died the husband could earn up to $7,600 per annum without that income in any way affecting the wife's entitlement to assistance under the scheme? Does the Minister regard that situation as being anomalous? If so, will he take steps to see that that and similar anomalies are examined as a matter of urgency with a view to correcting them along the lines of the recommendations of the Williams report which was tabled in this chamber during 1975? 
I preface my question to the Treasurer by referring to the instability and uncertainties which have developed on European foreign exchange markets in recent days, particularly the drop in the rate for sterling against the United States dollar, the decision by France to remove the franc from the so-called European currency snake and the consequential virtual disintegration of the snake. Can the Treasurer give the House more information on this matter? In particular, can he assure the House that these latest moves will not endanger the position of the Australian dollar relative to the currencies of its major trading partners? 
-The 2 Bills we are now debating have significance for a variety of reasons. Not the least of these is that they epitomise the differences and the philosophy and the practical approach to government between honourable members on this side of the House and our political opponents. The remarks of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  in this debate were among the most hypocritical we have heard in this House, even from that honourable gentleman who is not exactly well known for his objectivity in debate. 
The Leader of the Opposition today violently opposed the Phosphate Fertilizers Bounty Amendment Bill, yet it was his Government which in January 1975 referred to the Industries Assistance Commission the matter of Government assistance for the consumption of phosphatic fertilisers, including a request for an interim report on whether the present circumstances warranted interim assistance being accorded pending the receipt of the Commission's full report. It is this issue that we are debating today, not the longer term issues affecting the industry. 
The clear inference in the reference sent to the IAC in January 1975 was that there was a need for interim assistance, yet when the IAC recommended to this effect the Leader of the Opposition who was at that time the Prime Minister chose not to act on it, despite the fact that the present circumstances referred to in his Government's reference to the IAC- increases in superphosphate costs, prices and other farm costs, reduced prices for wool and meat and the resultant squeeze on incomes in the pastoral industry- were even more serious when he received the report than they were when he referred the matter to the Commission in the first instance. 
I thought that the honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry)  dealt with some issues in his speech which were of much more significance and better put together than those from other speakers from the other side today. It seems to me that what the honourable member for Fraser was doing in relation to this debate was confusing the longer term issues with those that are at present before the House because the 2 matters being debated are essentially interim measures. I also found it very difficult to understand the honourable member's claim that the Opposition could support the nitrogenous fertilisers' subsidy but at the same time oppose the phosphatic fertilisers bounty when the whole purpose of both measures before the House, as I have said, is to give a breathing space to the Government to enable it to consider the longer terms issues involved, both in terms of these products and the issues affecting the rural sector. 
The present Opposition when in government set out on a deliberate and wilful policy of destruction of the rural sector. It adopted  a  sledge-hammer approach to the rural sector without any regard to the overall economic and social consequences either in total or as they related to individual industries. It cloaked this approach around the theme of economic rationality and efficiency. Its approach to economic management during its 3 years in office amply demonstrates how hypocritical is such a justification for its actions because in those 3 years the Labor Party showed complete and abject incompetence and inefficient economic management. The real facts of the matter are that the Labor Party is dogmatically anti-rural in its outlook. It seems to believe that rural producers are all millionaires living off the fat of the land whilst at the same time drawing vast amounts from the taxpayers through subsidies and the like. Nothing could be further from the truth. Of course there are many farmers and graziers who arc doing well. This country would be in an even more serious position if that were not so. But there are far more who are in a desperate financial position. One has only to look at the dairy industry, the horticultural industries and large sections of the beef industry, to name but a few. to recognise this fact. My colleague the honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Shipton)  elaborated on this earlier in his remarks. 
In the 3 years of Labor Government the overall real income of farmers in this country fell by no less than some 50 per cent. In some industries the fall was even greater. In the dairy industry, for example, the decline was almost 70 per cent. Many of these farmers are in a situation of greater poverty than most other persons in Australia. 
It is just not true to say as the Labor Party docs that this situation has arisen simply as a result of troubles on overseas markets. That has certainly been a factor. But a great, and significant factor as well has been the staggering increase in farm costs, which Labor presided over and in certain industries continued and record industrial unrest, particularly in the processing of farm products. The Fraser Government is committed to rectifying this situation. 
One of the reasons for Labor's callous disregard of the plight of many farmers in Australia seems to stem from its fundamental lack of understanding of the need for producerswhether they be in the rural or any other industryto have an adequate positive cash flow and a reasonable net income. The actions of the Labor Government between 1972 and 1975 seem almost to have been deliberately designed to make those 2 fundamental requirements unattainable for the private sector as a whole. 
It is for these and other reasons I will come to later that I support the 2 Bills before the House. Both stem from reports of the Industries Assistance Commission- one an interim report on superphosphate and the other a final report on the nitrogenous fertilisers subsidy. The Commission is required to submit a final report by 3 1 July 1976 on whether the Government should continue to provide assistance for the consumption of phosphatic fertilisers. 
In its interim report on superphosphate the Commission recommended as a short-term measure restoration of the bounty which lapsed at the end of 1 974 as a result of a decision by the Whitlam Government. The Commission emphasised that this recommendation should not be taken as necessarily indicative of the recommendations it will make in its final report. In its report on the nitrogenous fertilisers bounty the Commission recommended the phasing out of the existing subsidy over a 3-year period to the end of 1978. The Bills now before the House are in effect holding operations which will provide assistance to users of phosphatic and nitrogenous fertilisers until such time as the government has received the final superphosphate report and has had the opportunity to reach long-term decisions on the basis of that report and the report is has already received on nitrogenous fertilisers. 
Both the IAC reports on which these 2 Bills are based are of profound significance for the future of the rural sector in Australia. They have a direct relationship to another IAC report tabled in this House last week on Rural Reconstruction. I hope and expect that when the Government reaches the stage of taking decisions on all 3 reports it will do so with an eye on the interrelationship between the three. There are other IAC reports in the pipeline and inputs to government from other sources which also are directly related. These reports have as their basic issue the question of the future of the rural sector in Australia and the extent, if any, to which that sector should be assisted from the public purse and, if so, how. They also deal fundamentally with the need for adjustment by various industries in the rural sector over time. These issues are not peculiar to the rural sector. All industries in all sectors of the economy face the need for adaptation and adjustment over time in the light of changing demand, changing technology and changing cost and price structures. 
The rural sector is no stranger to change. Continually over many years it has had to cope with this problem and by and large it has done so very successfully. I believe, however, that adaptation to change is a much more difficult problem for the rural sector than for other sectors of the community. 
The economic and social problems facing rural industries, particularly those in isolated areas, as so many of them are, are different from the problems facing, say, a manufacturing industry in a large city. The scope for switching resources from one activity to another in a rural area is much more limited than it is in an urban area. The main point I make in this respect today is that there is, in my view, a real need to recognise that desirable change can generally take place only at a slower rate in rural industries than it can in other industries. There may also be a greater need for direct assistance from government in helping rural industries to adjust to long term changes in economic conditions than there may be for non-rural industries, where resources tend to be more mobile and where the social consequences of change are less. I think that fur too often in the past this country has neglected the very real social costs involved in adjustment in non-metropolitan areas. I am delighted to see the increased attention that these areas are getting, both in this House and in other informed sectors of the community. 
Decisions taken by the Government in respect of rural industries frequently have more fundamental long term and irreversible effects on not only those industries but also on the areas in which they are located. Those areas encompass a great deal of activities other than just the rural industries. They include the shopkeepers and the other support industries for the rural industries. The whole situation in many of these areas is a very complex and interrelated one. Therefore the breathing space that the Government has afforded itself through the 2 Bills, before taking long term decisions in relation to the consumption of phosphatic and nitrogenous fertilisersdecisions which will have important consequences for the future not only of the user rural industries but the communities which are based on them as well as the producer industries- is very much to be welcomed. It is also to be welcomed as a refreshing change from the shootfromthehip  ad hoc  approach of the Whitlam Government, an approach which very nearly brought this great nation, and the rural sector in particular, to ruin. 
It would not be appropriate in this debate for me to go far into the substance of the question of long term assistance to the rural sector. These issues are fundamentally linked to those of tariff policy and to the whole issue of resource allocation in Australia. Let me content myself on this occasion by saying that in my view successive governments in the past have tended to adopt too piecemeal an approach to these matters. In framing policies in the area, say, of the superphosphate bounty, they have tended to look only at the industries using superphosphate, without paying sufficient regard to the relativity of those industries to other rural industries. I also wonder whether in the past we have been sufficiently selective in our examination of the implications even for the individual user industries, or whether we have paid sufficient regard to other possible means of assistance to producers in the industries most in need of assistance. It may be that some form of income support scheme would be preferable, both on economic and welfare grounds, to a subsidy on one input such as superphosphate. They are certainly matters which require the Government's closest consideration in the months ahead. 
We must look also at the whole question of how much output we want from the user industries. There is, in my view, little virtue- indeed, there is a real cost to the whole community- in being a major producer of goods for which there is an insufficient market at reasonable prices over the longer term. I will not pursue these matters further at this stage. I am confident that this Government will not fall into some of the errors of past governments in these respects. I urge that before these matters come before the House again as final decisions there be ample scope for wide ranging debate on the sorts of issues to which I have alluded today. 
The measures before us today are only interim measures. At a time when farm incomes are severely depressed, when farmers are being desperately squeezed for cash in the pincer of low product prices and major cost increases- in that category the increase in costs to farmers of superphosphate in the last 2 years has been the highest of all increases- the callousness of the Opposition in opposing the holding operation of the Government, as outlined in these 2 Bills, is to me almost unbelievable. The measures will provide only relatively small relief for the beleagured rural sector. At this point even this small relief can be of critical importance to many producers. I wholeheartedly support the Bills.  (Quorum formed). 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Bourchier)  adjourned. 
I support the general thrust and content of the Superannuation Bill and reject the amendment moved by the Opposition- an Opposition which, when in government, sought to introduce proposals which were wildly extravagant even by comparison with the wildest expectations of public servants, of whom I was one at the time. 
The previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Banks  (Mr Martin),  said that public servants must have short memories, voting as they obviously did so overwhelmingly in December for the Liberal-National Country Party, following all the supposed benefits they had received from the Whitlam Government. The honourable member must think that public servants are mindless. They knew that the pacesetter role in which they were cast by the Whitlam Government, although superficially attractive, was full of dangers and long term costs for not only them but also for the whole community. The flow-on from the pacesetter role was a major factor leading to the massive and unrealistic wage increases and demands under the Whitlam regimeincreases which raised expectations to an absurd level and which led to massive industrial unrest, record interest rates and a level of sustained inflation unsurpassed in Australia. In other words, there was a situation which brought this country to near ruin and which the new Government now has the Herculean task of rectifying. No, public servants did not have short memories on 13 December; rather they demonstrated their intelligence compared with that of members of the then Government. 
The points raised by the Oppostion in the debate so far are minor, nit-picking points and in any event are questionable in their factual bases. The honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry),  as I recall, made 2 main points. The first related to age 60 contributors under the existing scheme. He claimed- I hope I do not misquote him- that there were many examples of existing age 60 contributors who will be disadvantaged under the new scheme. All I can say on that point is that my understanding of the Bill is quite contrary to his. I will be interested, if there is any point in the issue raised on this score by the honourable member for Fraser, if the Minister Assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Eric Robinson)  would clarify the situation at a later time. My understanding is that the honourable member's advice is incorrect. The other issue that he raised concerned the indexing of lump sum retirement benefits. I agree with the principle of indexing in terms of ongoing retirement benefits, but it seems to me that to index a lump sum payment on retirement is attempting to have one's cake and eat it at the same time. I dismiss completely that point as a criticism of the Bill. 
The honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  raised several points which I think are misleading although, I hasten to add, I am sure from my previous experience of the honourable gentleman outside this House, that this would have been quite accidental. He raised 2 points on which I would like to touch briefly. He said that the return on investments was much less in the case of private insurance companies than in the case of the Superannuation Fund. He also said that insurance companies had been remiss in investing only in risk-free ventures and those which did not have any developmental potential. As far as the latter point is concerned, my understanding is that that is a very misleading and factually incorrect statement. The investments of most insurance companies in Australia vary from year to year; but to accuse the insurance industry in this country of investing in a negative way from the point of view of potential and worthwhile investment is, I think, incorrect. 
I also think it is misleading to compare the return on investments of insurance companies with that of the Superannuation Fund. The comments of the honourable member ignored completely a variety of factors, including the taxation aspects. The Whitlam Government, in an arbitrary, hurried and sledgehammer reaction to the Coombs task force report, greatly damaged the insurance industry by changing taxation arrangements which had been in existence for up to 40 years. I do not wish to pursue this matter here, but I believe that it is an area to which the Government will need to give a great deal of attention in order to restore order out of the chaos created by the Whitlam Government. 
The superannuation scheme which this Bill replaces had many defects. The worst defect was the inequitable and excessive burden which it placed on contributors as they cut additional units at a time when they were approaching retirement. I know of examples of public servants who were approaching 60 years of age, who through salary increases became eligible for additional superannuation units and who, on taking up those units- and taking into account the taxation at the marginal rates applying to those salaries- found themselves in a negative take-home pay situation. That is a quite inequitable situation. Of course, those contributors could have elected not to take the units, but that destroys the whole purpose of an adequate superannuation scheme. There was provision for non-contributory units to ease this burden; but, in my opinion, they were of limited value. The new scheme corrects this and other faults which are in the existing scheme, without intoducing the more extravagant and undesirably costly elements of Labor's 1975 proposals. 
Superannuation is one of the major elements of employment terms and conditions. If an employer wants to attract good quality staff in the first instance, and to hold that staff, he must be able to offer adequate retirement benefits. The Commonwealth Government is far and away the largest employer of labour in Australia. Despite the present necessary restraints on the growth of the Commonwealth Public Service, there is no doubt that it will continue to be a dominant employer of labour. There is also no doubt that the increasing demands put on government by all sections of the community will require an increasingly high quality Public Service in the years ahead. Whether we like it or not, the Government will be a good government only if it is advised by a high quality Public Service. The vast majority of public servants are not policy advisers to government. Nevertheless, they play a vital role in the community by the service they provide in day to day contact with the general public, which has a right to demand efficient and courteous service from the Public Service. An adequate superannuation scheme is one important element in attracting into the Public Service the quality of people necessary to provide this service. 
Lest I appear to be something of an apologist for the Public Service let me say that since leaving the Service last year to enter the Parliament I have become increasingly aware of the power of the Public Service in determining the course of government. I have some concern about this matter. Government is in the end about peopletheir aspirations and needs. It is the elected representatives of the people who are closest to those aspirations and needs. The Government and the Parliament need to be backed by an able Public Service, but there is a need for balance between the 3 arms. I fear that we may not nowadays have quite the proper balance. There is a need to strengthen the parliamentary arm so that the attitudes and wishes of the people of Australia are better taken into account in the governmental decisions-making process. 
I turn now to some of the more detailed aspects of the Bill. I stress that I do not profess to be an expert in this area; on the contrary, I positively profess not to be an expert. Superannuation is a very complex subject. Even those who have spent years studying it frequently have the same problems as laymen like myself in working their way through the labrinth. I would like, however, to mention those areas in which I consider the new proposals to be a considerable improvement over the existing scheme and then to raise one or two points which do cause me some concern or on which I would like to have clarification from the Minister in due course. 
I am pleased to note the provision in the Bill for conversion of part of a contributor's pension entitlement into a lump sum. I am also pleased to see the better deal that Will pertain to contributors who, under the existing scheme, would be Provident Fund contributors. I particularly welcome the new arrangements insofar as they relate to orphans, especially the provision whereby in certain circumstances the benefit will be or will include a lump sum payment. The provision to extend membership to part time employees as and when appropriate is also a sensible and enlightened development which recognises the changing nature of employment and the composition of the work force in today's society. It has particular application to women employees of the Public Service. I would Uke to hear from the Minister precisely what is meant by the words 'as and when appropriate' and whether there are any major difficulties in triggering this provision at an early date. 
The reduction from 20 years to 5 years in the period of time after which benefits can be preserved is also a welcome move. Again this will be of particular benefit to married women, but not only to them. However, as I read the Bill- I am subject to correction in this respect- the preservation rights apply only on movement to other public employment. This is also the case under the existing scheme. At the time the portability provisions were first introduced under the existing scheme the intention, as I understood it, was to attempt to move progressively towards wider portability to encourage a greater crossfertilisation between the public sector, the private sector, the academic world and other areas of endeavour. Such cross-fertilisation is in my opinion essential if there is to be the improvement in communications and understanding between all sectors of the community which I believe is essential if we are to realise our full potential as a nation not only in economic terms but as well in social and personal development terms. I therefore hope that the Government will keep under close review the possibility of widening the port.ability provisions of the superannuation scheme in the not too distant future. In saying that I realise, of course, that it takes two to tango. The private sector also must play its part in implementing broader portability provisions in its own superannuation schemes. 
There are clauses in the Bill, including the payment of additional pension and the refund of moneys on resignation, which provide for the payment of interest. I am pleased to see them. The existing scheme is unjust, for example, in that on resignation a contributor gets merely a refund of his contributions without any payment of interest. Not only has the real capital value of his contributions been eroded over time but also he has suffered serious income loss on the interest foregone. The new proposals rectify this injustice. The point I want to make, however, is that I cannot find in the Bill the method by which the rate or rates of interest will be calculated. It could be that this will be covered in regulations but I would like clarification from the Minister on this point at a later stage. 
Another point which is not clear to me concerns the provision for payment of a pension on retirement at an age less than 60 years. As I understand the situation a permanent public servant cannot retire voluntarily until he is at least 60 years of age. This provision is contained in the Public Service Act. Therefore, it appears to me that the provisions in the Superannuation Bill relating to voluntary retirement before age 60 will be inoperative unless and until the Public Service Act is amended to permit such voluntary retirement. I would be grateful for clarification on this point. 
Finally, a provision in the Bill which causes me the greatest concern is that which permits spouses- these would be widows, in the main- to retain their pensions after remarriage. As I understand it, it would be possible for a woman to remarry several times and, provided her new husband was a public servant on each occasion, to collect a number of separate pensions. I must confess that I have some doubt about the equity of this. Much more importantly, however, I question the effect it may have on the security of our male Public Service population. May this provision not simply be encouraging the development of a race of female Bluebeards in our midst? The thought is terrifying. 
Putting that aside, however, and subject to the points on which I have sought clarification, I consider the Bill to be an enlightened and long overdue piece of legislation. It has been born following protracted debate and consideration both in this House and elsewhere. It has the approval of the Public Service unions. Undoubtedly it is not perfect. No retirement scheme can ever be perfect. It may be somewhat generous in parts and inadequate in others. Time may show it to be in need of modification and I expect that it will. From my reading of the Bill, I believe it contains the essential elements of a satisfactory scheme and one which is not out of line with existing schemes in larger private organisations. Therefore, I support the motion for the second reading of the Bill. 
My question, which is directed to the Treasurer, is supplementary to the question asked of the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations by the honourable member for Hume. Is the Treasurer aware of the financial havoc being created for wool growers and for this nation as a result of the industrial blackmail being perpetrated by the strike by the Storemen and Packers Union? Is the Treasurer further aware that the strike has resulted in many wool growers being unable to meet taxation payments now falling due? Is it a fact that after a delay of 14 days in tax payment, interest is payable by the taxpayer to the Commissioner of Taxation at the rate of 10 per cent per annum unless such payment is waived by the Commissioner under his discretionary powers? In view of the fact that many wool growers are now unable to meet thentax commitments because of the actions of the Storemen and Packers Union will the Treasurer request the Commissioner to exercise his discretionary powers as sympathetically as possible while the present situation persists? 
-I believe that the subject of foreign investment in Australia is extremely important. I am only sorry, after listening to the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  that it appears that the Opposition does not feel the same way. I welcome not only the details of the statement by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  in this House on 1 April but also the fact that it was made at all. In fact, it was the first substantive policy statement on this subject to be made in Parliament since the one made on 26 
September 1972 by the then Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr William McMahon).  Admittedly the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  when Prime Minister tabled in this House on 7 November 1973 the text of a policy statement on foreign investment which he had made in Tokyo on 29 October 1973; but he simply tabled it. In fact he had to follow his usual penchant for overseas travel in order to make the statement at all. He made it to a Japanese audience in Japan- the first detailed statement of the Australian Labor Party's foreign investment policy after its election in 1972- and he made it only after a delay of 11 months. So much for the Labor Party's much vaunted ballyhoo about the importance of Parliament. So much for its ballyhoo about keeping the Australian people informed. 
Not only is the subject of foreign investment important; it also is one of the most misunderstood and one which arouses a great deal of emotionalism. Debate on the subject somehow seems to bring out the worst in many otherwise rational Australians. It brings out a trait of xenophobia and jingoism that is not pleasant to see. Unfortunately we have witnessed this today in the speech by the honourable member for Adelaide. But even his speech paled by comparison with those of some of his colleagues when the Labor Party was in government. It is a great pity that in his speech today the honourable member for Adelaide touched only very briefly on the matters which are the real subject of the Treasurer's statement. For example, he talked about hot money. Hot money is essentially of a non-equity nature. It is equity investment with which the Treasurer's statement deals. The Opposition appears to be incapable of recognising this fact. 
There can be no doubt at all that foreign companies operating in Australia have provided a major impetus to development over the past generation. Although on average only some 10 per cent of Australia's gross domestic capital formation over this period has been financed from overseas investment, this has been extremely important at the margin, in giving Australians access to a larger supply of goods and services than otherwise would have been available and therefore facilitating a more rapid rate of economic growth and a major broadening of our industrial base. The financial contribution of foreign investment has been a much greater proportion of total investment in the private sector than the figure of 10 per cent I have just mentioned. It has increased steadily since the late 1950s and in the early 1970s reached 35 to 40 per cent. This investment has gone into a wide range of industries, initially mainly into manufacturing and latterly into minerals- at least until the former Minister for Minerals and Energy, commonly known as 'the Strangler' applied the deathlock and strangled the minerals sector of this nation between 1973 and 1975. 
A major restriction on foreign equity investment in Australia in the foreseeable future would severely inhibit innovation and the growth of technology in Australia and would reduce our rate of economic growth and therefore the real standard of living of all Australians to below what it otherwise would be. Nevertheless, it is clear that most Australians are concerned, for various reasons, about uncontrolled further increases in foreign ownership and control of Australian resources. Since the late 1960s successive governments have taken various steps to restrict the further growth of such foreign ownership and control. Let it not be forgotten- the. honourable member for Adelaide appears to have forgotten it- that it was the Gorton and McMahon Governments that first acted on this, not the Whitlam Government. For example, it was the McMahon Government which introduced legislation to control foreign takeovers and which commissioned the Treasury to prepare a detailed analysis of overseas investment in Australia which was published in May 1972 and which formed the basis for much further policy formulation in this area. The Whitlam Government further developed the policy and extended it more fully to cover foreign investment other than by way of takeovers; but, as was the case with so many other policy initiatives of that Government, it bungled this policy. As I said earlier, it took 1 1 months after reaching government to produce a statement and all that statement did was to confuse the issue and to lead to a great deal of uncertainty amongst foreign investors. As a result, and coupled with the Whitlam Government's determined efforts to wreck the Australian economy via the inflation route, overseas confidence in Australia as a stable and worthwhile place to invest crashed to its lowest ever ebb. Nowhere was this more important and apparent than in the minerals sector which not only had the Labor Government to contend with but also was faced with a Minister who had grandiose pipe dreams for mineral development by the public sector and who bullied the industry and refused to enter into any meaningful dialogue with it. He not only caused immeasurable damage to foreign mining companies but also he did much the same to Australian companies, particularly those in the mineral exploration area. Not only that, the Minister refused to enter into discussions with his State counterparts and was largely responsible for the major disruption in Commonwealth-State relations which occurred between 1973 and 1975. 
It is sometimes said that the policy of the Liberal and National Country Parties towards foreign investment is little different from that of the Whitlam Government. It is true that many of the guidelines are similar. But there the similarity ends because whereas the Labor Party's policy was hostile and negative in its approach to foreign investors the whole psychology and philosophy of the present Government 's policy is positive and recognises the need for continuing foreign investment but on terms and conditions acceptable to the Australian community. As the Treasurer said in his 1 April statement, the previous Government was conscious of the costs of foreign investment but was reluctant to acknowledge its benefits. This shows through very clearly indeed on a reading of the Whitlam Government's Tokyo statement of October 1973 and the many subsequent statements which tried unsuccessfully to unravel the confusion which that statement caused. 
Foreign investors in Australia now know much more clearly where they stand than they ever did under Labor. This is of the utmost importance. Uncertainty breeds a lack of confidence. A lack of confidence breeds low levels of investment. Low levels of investment lead to lower production which damages the standard of living of all Australians. The establishment of the Foreign Investment Review Board will also be an important step forward. This proposal involves leading businessmen in advising on a continuing basis on foreign investment matters. The Board should contribute to greater understanding and knowledge of government thinking and action in this area. 
The guidelines for the acceptable degree of foreign equity in mineral projects are clear, yet they have a desirable degree of flexibility. I particularly welcome the statement by the Treasurer that if the 50 per cent local equity sought in new mineral projects cannot be obtained the project will not on that account be prevented from proceeding. This is a clear and unequivocal undertaking. In this it represents a major change from the Whitlam Government's obfuscation on this issue. It also marks one of the major differences between this Government and the former Government. We want to get the economy going again. In this we are not going to be hung up on the same foreign bogy-man shibboleths of the Whitlam Government. 
The Treasurer's statement is a clear indication to foreign investors that we welcome them; that we recognise their importance to the future development of Australia; but that at the same time we want genuine participation between foreign and local investors on terms and conditions that are clearly defined and that take full account of the overall interests of all Australians I have much pleasure in endorsing the Treasurer's statement. 
-I ask the Minister for Defence: Is it a fact that under long-standing arrangements members of the Australian Army Reserve travelling to and from parades have been paid travelling allowance on a mileage basis? Has a decision been made to vary these arrangements from 1 July 1976 by removing the mileage basis and substituting a flat rate attendance allowance of $ 1.20? If so, will this disadvantage many existing members, particularly those in country areas where considerable distances are involved in travelling to parades? Is it likely to have the effect of reducing the existing number of Australian Army Reserve members and of inhibiting future recruitment to the Reserve? 
I want briefly tonight to draw to the attention of the House the major problems facing many rural industries in my electorate of Ballaarat and surrounding areas. This applies particularly to the beef, sheep and dairying industries. There are various reasons for these problems- unrealistically low prices, lack of markets, inflation due to the extravagances of the previous Government and the lack of stock feed due to drought conditions. Rainfall in the first 4 months of 1976 in my part of Victoria is amongst the lowest ever recorded. Several inches of rain are needed quickly or there will be little or no feed for stock during the winter. Already many head of stock are being shot because farmers cannot afford to buy feed. The feed for one week frequently costs more that the gross price that the stock brings at market, and that excludes the transport cost of getting it there. Recently in my electorate one farmer sold 50 sheep and got a gross return of $2.50 for the lot. 
The problems are too great and diversified to deal with anywhere near adequately tonight. I therefore will restrict my remarks to the essentials. Several of these industries have long term problems that they, together with government, will have to tackle. Some of these- for example, forms of better production control and marketing methods- essentially are matters for the producers themselves to work out. Others- for example the development of better and more assured access to overseas markets- are very much a matter for government in co-operation with producers. These medium to longer term problems, by definition, can be solved only in the medium to longer terms, but there are immediate problems. 
Improved unemployment benefit criteria for farmers will help, but there still will be a cash flow crisis. This present problem is hitting the younger innovative farmers when the average age of farmers is increasing disturbingly. Low prices and lack of feed make it impossible to switch from one production to another. Many farmers are now below the poverty level, having nil or negative incomes. I am pleased to note the improved prospects for some products; for example, on the beef markets. As well, the 
Government has first and foremost as a number one priority a reduction in inflation and that, too, will help. But these aspects will not solve the immediate problem. 
The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  is desperately worried and is working hard on the problems. I wish to put to him the urgent need for the closest co-operation with the Victorian Government to examine and to deal with the immediate problems of cash flow. What producers need is access to finance. The rate of interest is important, but the sheer availability of funds is even more important. This does not necessarily suggest that the Government need be the provider of that finance. But there is a responsibility on the Government to persuade the banking and finance industry to look sympathetically at the present position. 
It is people who are involved in this crisis, not just rural products. It is a human problem, not just an economic problem. However, even looking just at the economics of the matter, I point out that several of the rural industries most affected, and in particular the beef industry, are amongst the most efficient of our industries in Australia and indeed in the world. It would be tragic if these industries were to be permanently damaged by the present confluence of disastrous circumstances. It must not happen. As a related issue, I wish to raise the question of the relationship of the prices received by rural producers for their products, particularly stock, and the prices that are being paid by consumers at the retail level. To me there is a very great discrepancy between the two. It is one that I find extremely difficult to understand. I hope that the Government will look very closely at the possibility of instituting an inquiry in this area. 
I preface my question to the Minister for Primary Industry by referring to the large number of cattle shot in Victoria last week because of the lack of feed coupled with the appallingly low prices being obtained for such stock at auction and to proposals for similar shootings in other areas. Is the Minister aware of the large increase in stock prices that occurred following last week's shooting? Does the Minister agree that the movement in prices last week warrants investigation in relation to the general methods of marketing livestock in Australia? In view of the very wide discrepancies already existing between the prices received for livestock by producers in Australia - 
-I welcome this opportunity to express my strong support for the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (Financial Support Fund) Bill. I am pleased to note that a bipartisan approach has been adopted to this Bill in this chamber. Like the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  I have had various associations with the Organisations for Economic Co-operation and Development. I was particularly closely associated with it at the stage that Australia contemplated joining it and in the early years of Australia's membership. In my view the OECD is one of the prime international institutions in the world for a co-operative approach to economic matters. It provides Australia, as a member, with a wonderful opportunity, which I think we have accepted over the recent years in which we have been a member, to play a full and a constructive role in debates and the furtherance of international economic co-operation. 
I also welcome the opportunity to speak on this Bill because it is too infrequently that members of this chamber have an opportunity to speak in a debate on external financial matters. As an aside, I hope that this is something that we may be able to rectify at some stage before too long. I think there would be great advantage to this chamber if we were to have a wider debate on international economic matters than this Bill provides, although it does provide an opportunity, because these are matters which are of the greatest importance to this nation. They affect not only our external economic and trading position but through them our domestic economic situation also. As well, external economic relations cannot be divorced from our overall foreign policy. 
We live today in a highly interdependent world, a world where the economic and commercial circumstances of any one  country,  particularly where that country is an important international trading country, have important implications for the economic and commercial circumstances of other countries. The lack of economic and commercial harmony or the presence of it between nations is a major element of the total foreign relations picture between nations. The Bill before us is a not insignificant addition to international economic co-operation. I would like to come back to this issue later in my remarks. 
The Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  outlined in his second reading speech the basic features of the agreement establishing a Financial Support Fund of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development which was signed by all member countries, including Australia, in Paris on 9 April 1975. The objectives of the fund are to encourage and assist members firstly to avoid unilateral measures which would restrict international trade or other current account transactions and which would artificially stimulate visible and current invisible exports; and secondly, to follow appropriate domestic and international economic policies, including adequate balance of payments and co-operative policies to promote increased production and the conservation of energy. Another objective of the fund is to serve for a limited period of 2 years only, to supplement in exceptional circumstances other sources of credit to which members encountering serious economic difficulties have had recourse, and to ensure that the risks on loans by the fund to members are shared equitably amongst all members. 
It is important to note that the fund will act only as a lender of last resort. This means that the potential borrower must first have made the fullest appropriate use of its own external reserves and fullest use of other possible sources of capital including other multi-lateral facilities such as the International Monetary Fund. A potential borrower can borrow only in circumstances where it is encountering severe balance of payments difficulties. Criticisms have been made of the fund from time to time that because a borrower has to follow appropriate domestic and international economic policies, that country is thereby abrogating from itself its ability to dictate its own economic policies. 
In my view this criticism is quite fallacious for 3 main reasons. Firstly, the country does not have to borrow from the fund. Secondly, by the time it has become eligible to borrow from the fund it already will have borrowed from the International Monetary Fund and will of necessity have had to agree in particular terms with the IMF on appropriate economic policies. Thirdly, the Support Fund cannot autocratically dictate economic policies to the lender. 
Section 3 (C) of the agreement provides that conditions related to economic policies needed shall be agreed between the borrower and the fund at the time the loan is granted. Experience with the IMF in any event indicates that countries agreeing to certain policies generally do so on a best endeavours basis. The agreement in itself in no way inhibits Australia's freedom of action in any direction beyond what our existing international obligations impose on us; for example, through our earlier acceptance of the OECD's trade declaration. It is also important to note that a member of the Financial Support Fund can seek exclusion from providing funds for a borrowing by another member if the country called is itself in present or prospective balance of payments difficulties. Similar safeguards apply to all participants in respect of borrowings by the fund in their own internal capital markets.  ~. 'A  welcome feature of the fund is the close liaison that it will have with other major international financial institutions, notably the International Monetary Fund and the Bank for International Settlements. These institutions will have representation at meetings of the Support Fund's governing committee and provision exists for the Bank for International Settlements to be appointed as agent for the fund for various administrative purposes. If Australia ratifies the agreement it will have a quota in the fund which will be the basis for any drawings for or contributions to the fund of special drawing rights of $300m. As the honourable member for Adelaide said, this is something in the order of $A275m. Australia's proposed quota is the equal twelfth largest of the twenty-four OECD members and reflects our importance as a major trading nation and as a significant member of the OECD. It is unlikely in the extreme that Australia will be a borrower from the Financial Support Fund. It is also perhaps unlikely that we will be required to contribute in any significant way. If we do, provisions exist which would mean that there would be almost certainly no direct budgetary impact. 
I would like to return now, briefly, to the wider context in which I believe this Bill should be considered. The financial Support Fund was conceived at a time immediately following the dramatic increase in oil prices by the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries in 1973 when the balance of payments positions of most of the major western countries were convulsed by the OPEC action, an action which played a critical part in the recession in major western countries which occurred in 1974 and 1975 and from which they are only now recovering. The original idea stemmed from 2 proposals by the United States of America and one by the SecretaryGeneral of the OECD,  Mr Van  Lennep. There were some who thought that the United States proposals would be damaging because they might imply an attempt to confront the OPEC countries. That is a matter of opinion, but whatever one 's judgment it is now entirely irrelevant. 
The discussions and the negotiations which the United States and the OECD's SecretaryGeneral's proposals promoted have led to the establishment of a fund about which the OPEC countries appear to be quite unconcerned. There is no evidence to suggest that OPEC countries regard the fund as an instrument of confrontation. Even France, which was concerned about some aspects of the United States proposals on this score and which declined for this reason to participate in the International Energy Agreement which also stemmed from the 2 United States proposals, has signed the Support Fund agreement. 
In short, the new fund marks another important step forward in realistic and essential international co-operation. It provides an additional supplementary safety net to OECD member countries experiencing major balance of payments difficulties and will help enable them to make necessary external adjustments without resort to restrictionist and beggar my neighbour policies which could plunge the world down the path towards recession. The facility is restricted to OECD members, the great majority of which are developed nations. It is these countries in total which face the largest of any oil induced balance of payments deficits in the future. At the same time, developing countries have not been overlooked by the international financial community. The International Monetary Fund has recently substantially liberalised access to its compensatory financing facility which applies mainly to developing countries. As well, profits from sales of a portion of the IMF's gold stock are to be used to establish a trust fund which will be available to the lowest  per capita  income countries on highly concessional terms. 
Australia stands to gain immensely from an orderly and stable world financial, economic and trading environment. We have been through an unstable period in recent years. The so-called Bretton Woods international monetary system of fixed but adjustable exchange rates has broken down. There has been economic recession in most major developed countries which has had widespread international ramifications. There has been resort to increasing barriers to international trade. The wonder of it all is perhaps that the international economic order did not collapse into a state of chaos in the last 4 years or so. The reason it did not is that the major countries pulled back from the brink of the restrictionist and beggar my neighbour policies which characterised the 1930s, 
We in Australia have a lesson to learn from this. We must recognise that we cannot hope to solve our internal economic problems by attempting to insulate ourselves from the rest of the world. We must recognise that we are an important and an integral part of the world economy and that we depend importantly for our own economic health upon the policies adopted by the rest of the world. We must recognise that we have a responsibility not only to ourselves but also to our trading partners to put our own economic house in order; and that is precisely what this present Government is moving so rapidly towards doing. We must recognise that if own economic house gets out of order we must adjust to put it back in order rather than attempt to protect ourselves by cutting ourselves off from the immense advantages that accrue to us through international trade and the relatively free flow of capital across national boundaries. What this means is that we must continue to learn to live co-operatively with the rest of the world. The OECD financial support fund agreement is a significant and a worthwhile further step in international financial co-operation. Accordingly I wholeheartedly support its ratification by this Parliament. 
-Surely it must be a very long time indeed since, if ever, we have seen an Opposition contribution to a major debate on major economic proposals as sterile, as ill-informed and as consciously and deliberately misleading as the contribution we have had today from the Opposition and to which we were subjected yesterday during the debate on the Treasurer's statement. The Australian people deserve a better go from the Opposition than this. They deserve an Opposition which can contribute constructively, objectively and honestly; they do not have that. Instead they have an Opposition which has quite deliberately set out to deceive and to misinform. 
To illustrate my point, let me take up some of the red herrings and the assertions made by Opposition spokesmen in the past 2 days. The shadow Treasurer, the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)-  a gentleman for whom until yesterday I had respect for his economic knowledge and his economic integrity- asserted that the Government, in its economic policy proposals of which the Bills we are now debating are an integral part, is deliberately continuing a policy of high unemployment, is mutilating the government sector, is keeping credit tight, and is aiming for a reduction in real wages. He said that the Government is ignoring health schemes, social security programs, welfare and so on. What arrant nonsense. Not only is it arrant nonsense, but also the honourable gentleman's whole statement is shot through with inconsistencies and confusion. For example, he said that he does not quibble with the Government's present money supply targets of 1 1 per cent to 1 3 per cent growth. If that is so, how can he criticise the Government on the grounds that it is keeping credit tight? He says that he believes that that target can be achieved with careful money market management, without increased interest rates, yet at the same time he advocates an increase in government spending and therefore an increase in the Budget deficit. It is really quite astonishing. If the honourable member for Adelaide can explain to the country just how he proposes to achieve this miracle then he puts Houdini to shame. The simple fact is that he cannot do so, and the honourable gentleman knows that just as well as I do. 
The shadow Treasurer said that there must be restraint in public spending; it cannot be limitless. Of course, that is true. What a pity his Party did not accept that view when in government. If it had, if it had exercised one ounce of real responsibility for economic management and restraint, this country would not have been in the perilous position which it was in December 1975 and which this Government is so courageously and capably working to correct. How can the honourable member for Adelaide stand up in this chamber and so deceive the Australian people? 
Let me give the House a couple more examples of that deceit. He said that many private sector contracts were being cancelled as a result of the Government's policy measures. That is simply not true. He said that many pensioners would be taxed as a result of the Government's proposals. That also is untrue. Few, if any, pensioners who rely on their pension as their sole source of income will have an income which attracts tax. 
The honourable member for Adelaide is of the opinion that the principal priority in economic policy at present should be dealing with unemployment. He laments the present level of unemployment. So do I; so does the Government; so does every Australian. What he omits to mention, though, is the originator of that unemployment. The originator was the Whitlam Government. It was the Whitlam Government's abysmal handling of the economy, including in particular the complete loss of control over government spending, which led to the greatest sustained level of inflation in Australia's history a level of inflation which was a major contributor to the level of unemployment we now have. 
Does the shadow Treasurer not concede the link between inflation and unemployment? If not, he is out of line with every economist in Australia, with the possible exception of Professor Ted Wheelwright whom he quoted so fully yesterday but who has never been exactly noted for his contributions to serious economic debate, in recent years at least. The honourable member for Adelaide is also out of line with every businessman in Australia, both those with large businesses and those with small businesses. He obviously has not spoken to a rural producer recently. He is also out of line with his colleague, the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  who, as Labor's last Treasurer, said in his 1975 Budget Speech: 
On the economic front, inflation is this nation's most menacing enemy. We aim to curb it. Unless this aim is achieved, the nation's productive capacity will run down and job opportunities will diminish. Our present level of unemployment is too high. If we fail to control inflation unemployment will get worse. 
No thinking person could possibly disagree with those words- no one, that is, except, it seems, the present shadow Treasurer. Unfortunately  Mr Hayden  was unable to get his way. He was unable to persuade his Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  to be sufficiently tough to bring the Labor Cabinet and the Labor Caucus into line on the need, in practice as well as in words, for responsible economic management. The result was that the Hayden Budget went completely awry and the nation plunged further down the road of inflation, unemployment and stagnation. 
This brings me to the contribution in the House yesterday of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam).  I have said that the shadow Treasurer's statement was deceitful and shot with inconsistencies. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. Does the Minister yet know the outcome of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission's hearing on the national wage case and on the future of wage indexation? 
It is unfortunate in the extreme that the Opposition has adopted the obstructionist, misleading and emotive attitude which it has adopted to this Bill. However, I am afraid that that is typical of the Opposition's whole approach to participation in this Parliament during the entire session to date. I think that the reasons for it stem from the Australian Labor Party's whole approach to government. Labor seems to argue that there must be big, brand new, separate bodies or organisations if things are to be done. This is patently false, as experience has proved time and again, particularly during the 3 years of the Whitlam Government, during which the bureaucracy grew enormously, especially in the form of new commissions and the like, and it was accompanied by growing economic chaos and, just as importantly, administrative chaos. 
What the Opposition appears to fail to understand is that all that is proposed in the Bill now before the House is that instead of having a road safety authority as a separate body, the functions initially proposed for that authority will be carried out by a separate unit within the Department of Transport. That unit, which may be called a bureau or some similar name, will have the same functions as the Road Safety and Standards Authority. I am assured by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  that the bureau, for want of a better name, will also have a high degree of autonomy. Let us for a moment have a look at the main functions of the Road Safety and Standards Authority as originally proposed. They were: Investigating and reporting to the Minister on matters relating to road safety and road vehicles; undertaking, or arranging for, research in relation to road safety and road vehicles; fostering the co-ordination of activities in Australia relating to road safety; advising the Minister in respect of the grant of financial assistance by the Parliament to the States in connection with road safety; formulating standards for highways and other roads and proposals in relation to traffic management, traffic laws, road signs and other matters and things relating to road safety; preparing reports for relevant departments and authorities of Australia on the road safety aspects of transport and urban development programs that are or are to be directly or indirectly financed to a significant degree by Australia; collecting and disseminating, or arranging for the collection and dissemination of, statistics and other information relating to road safety; formulating standards for road vehicles; and testing, or arranging for the testing of, road vehicles for compliance with standards and certifying, or arranging for the certification of, compliance of road vehicles with those standards, including certification by means of marks affixed to road vehicles. 
There is nothing in those functions which cannot be done effectively and adequately by the proposed new unit within the Department of Transport. Indeed it can be argued that the degree of co-ordination necessary on road safety matters- I think we all agree that co-ordination in this area is of vital importance- will better be achieved by having the unit located within the Department of Transport. This applies particularly to two of the most important functions of the unit, namely, reporting to the Minister on matters relating to road safety and road vehicles, and the question of data collection. 
Opposition speakers who have spoken today about increased deaths on the road as a result of this Bill, in my view, stand condemned in the eyes of this Parliament and in the eyes of the Australian people. They have produced an air of hysteria and emotionalism which does them no credit at all and which is deliberately misleading but which, as I said earlier, sadly is typical of their approach in this Parliament in recent months. It is simply untrue to make such wild allegations, and Opposition spokesmen well know it. The facts disprove the allegations. There has been a welcome and highly necessary improvement in Australia's road safety record since the early 1970s. The Road Safety and Standards Authority has had nothing to do with this improvement. However, we still have a very long way to go in further reducing the carnage on our roads and in improving road safety right across the board. The new unit to be established within the Department of Transport will have an important role to play in this matter, as will the State governments and as will the Standing Committee on Road Safety of which I have the privilege to be a new member. There is also a great need for improved driver efficiency, improved road signs, improved vehicle safetyabout which the report tabled earlier today has much to say and for which I extend my congratulations to the members of the previous Committee which produced that report- better pedestrian education and something that I regard as of fundamental importance, adequate finance for road construction and maintenance. 
All Australians have a major responsibility towards road safety. The tragedy wreaked in human lives and human misery is enormous. The cost to the nation is staggering. There is no simple answer to the problem. Australia has made major advances and has led the world in several aspects of road safety- for example, the compulsory wearing of seat belts- but we have a long way to go. The Fraser Government has a major commitment towards furthering road safety in Australia in conjunction with many other bodies. I am confident that the new body to be established within the Department of Transport will play an important role in this overall context. Let me assure the House and the Minister that, as a member of the Road Safety Committee, I will be watching very closely the performance of the new unit. If it does not fulfil the expectations which I have of it then I along with other members of the Committee and no doubt many other people will have no hesitation whatever in bringing its defects to the attention of the Government and in recommending changes to its structure and/or operations. But this is simply part of the normal and necessary process of government. Government must adapt its structures to meet changing needs in the overall circumstances of the times. I am fully confident that the present Government will do that. 
In conclusion, I only regret that in their comments today the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  and the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  have tried to turn road safety into a political football. Surely even this Opposition recognises that road safety is far too important a matter to justify such shoddy treatment. I support the Bill before the House. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
I support the Bill. My main purpose in entering the debate today is to raise in somewhat more general terms some of the issues surrounding the question of tariff policy in Australia. The area of tariff policy is one of the most important areas with which any government has to deal. The particular tariff policy adopted by a government can have a profound influence on the rate of growth of the economy, on the price which consumers pay for goods and services, on the distribution of the work force, on relative development of metropolitan and non-metropolitan areas, on our relations with other countries and, most importantly, on the standard of living of every Australian. Tariff policy cannot be looked at in isolation from other policies. It has a close and obvious inter-relationship with exchange rate policy. It is less frequently recognised by the general public, although nonetheless important for that, that tariff policy also has a close relationship with fiscal and monetary policy, employment policies, policies on rural industries and decentralisation and foreign policy. In other words, there are few more important issues which this House could discuss than the issue of tariffs. 
For a country such as Australia, which has higher levels of tariff protection for industrial products than any other developed country, with the exception of New Zealand, it is regrettable that all too often in the past this House has neglected its responsibility to debate this issue as widely as possible. My colleague the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)-  I am delighted to see him in the chamber- has been almost a lone voice crying in the wilderness in his attempts to promote debate on the subject. That he has been relatively unsuccessful in this respect perhaps owes something to the fact that he is an extremely modest member. However, I am pleased that he will be speaking later in this debate. 
As a member from an electorate which has an important manufacturing sector as well as an important rural sector, I am becoming increasingly concerned at the growth of expression in Australia of the view that what is good for the manufacturing sector is bad for the rural sector, and conversely. In my opinion, such a view is quite fallacious and shows little understanding of either the interrelationships between the 2 sectors or the simple economics of development. As well, it ignores much of the community not directly part of either sector. For example, it ignores the largest sectoral employer of labourthe tertiary sector- and all those persons not in the work force at all, particularly the aged. More important, however, is the simple fact that, if we want this nation of ours to develop its full potential and to generate the goods and services needed to accommodate the community's increasingly rising and diversified material and other aspirations, we must utilise our resources in the most efficient manner compatible with our other policy objectives. Efficient resource usage is fundamental to the achievement of our overall objectives. 
I do not believe that efficient resource usage can be achieved without the healthy development of all sectors- primary, secondary and tertiary. I stress both these considerations- namely, the objective of efficient resource utilisation and the fact that the community and the Government may also have other objectives which are not directly in harmony with the first objective, at least in other than the very long term. I have in mind here, for example- I use this example because it is of the greatest importance to my own electorate but one can think of many other examplesthe possible lack of full compatibility between the most efficient allocation of resources and the desirability of encouraging greater decentralisation in Australia. This need to accommodate different objectives has direct relevance to the question of tariff policy. It has relevance not only to what the overall thrust of tariff policies should be but as well to the rate at which tariffs should be altered over time and to the need or otherwise for adjustment assistance to complement changes in the levels of tariffs in different industries. Few people would disagree with the proposition that, given our less than limitless resources of land, labour and capital, we should concentrate our productive efforts in those areas in which we are most efficient. The question is: Which are those areas? 
I believe that we can say without hesitation that we are a highly efficient producer of a range of rural products- notably, wheat, wool, beef and sugar. We are an efficient producer of a wide range of minerals. When we get to the manufacturing sector the position becomes much more clouded. Certainly we are an efficient producer of steel, but are we an efficient producer of motor vehicles, footwear, textiles, synthetic yarns and so on? This itself is too broad a question. Within the manufacturing sector and within particular industries in that sector there is evidence to indicate that we are an efficient producer. We would probably be a more efficient producer if we had greater industry rationalisation in certain areas. The important point is that at the end of the day all industries in all sectors are competing with each other for resources. It is not a simple question of manufacturing versus rural, or manufacturing versus mining. Indeed in many respects the most important competition for resources is between industries within the manufacturing sector. To argue for lower tariffs is not in itself simply to argue the case for the rural sector against the manufacturing sector, but rather it is to argue the case for policies to achieve the greatest efficiency within the manufacturing sector whilst recognising the problems that high tariffs pose for those areas of the economy that do not require protection. 
It is not for government to provide the answers as to which manufacturing, rural or tertiary industries are efficient and which are not. However, it is the responsibility of government to help provide the economic environment in which the answers can be determined basically by the market place. This is one of the major philosophical differences between us on this side of the House and the Opposition. The Australian Labor Party believes that government can be sufficiently omniscient to predict the future with accuracy and therefore to be able to say to one industry or the other: 'You should, or must, do this or do that.' Experience around the world over very many years has proved that this fundamental premise of Labor's is a fallacy. Government is as fallible- perhaps more fallible- in predicting the future course of supply and demand as anyone else. The truth is that, despite its imperfections- and it does have imperfections- the private enterprise market system is still the best determiner of the most efficient allocation of resources. Government has a major responsibility to ensure that the market system operates with the least degree of imperfection. Herein lies one of the inherent problems with tariffs. 
Tariffs themselves tend to distort the market, particularly when, as we have in Australia, there is a wide range in the level of tariffs applying to different industries. This fact in itself is a compelling argument for the proposition that, the lower the level of tariffs, the less imperfect is the market system and therefore the better is the allocation of resources. That is a rather sweeping generalisation, of course, but it is not without truth for all that. Tariffs in Australia are only one of many imperfections in the market system which affect our allocation of resources. Differential indirect taxes are another. So also are the protective systems of other countries to which we export, or the systems in other countries which enable their exporters to compete with Australian exporters in third countries on unequal terms. All these and other factors need to be taken into account in framing our own policies, but they do not detract from the logic of the overall argument that lower rather than higher tariffs in Australia will lead to better utilisation of resources within Australia than would otherwise be the case. 
The interrelationships between different sectors and between different industries within the same sector are extremely complex and deserve much closer research and study than we have given them in Australia in the past. I am pleased to see that the Industries Assistance Commission has studies along these lines under way. At the risk of over-simplification, however, one can say that high levels of staff protection act to the detriment of the more efficient primary, secondary and tertiary industries in the economy, through raising the overall cost structure, through diverting resources away from the more efficient industries and towards those that are protected, and through influencing exchange rate policy in a manner disadvantageous to export industries which in the main are those industries in which Australia has a comparative cost advantage. 
However, whilst the overwhelming weight of economic argument is in favour of lower rather than higher tariffs, this does not mean that Australia should rush headlong down the path of rapidly and indiscriminately slashing tariffs. That is what the Whitlam Government did in 1973, with some pretty disastrous consequences. We must learn from that mistake. 
The present tariff structure in Australia has been developed over a very long number of years. Australian industry has been structured around this. Industries are constantly having to cope with and adjust to changes imposed on them for many reasons, probably the most important of which are changing demand and changing technology. But industries require time to adjust to change. It makes little sense to force change at such a pace as to cause major dislocation. This is very important in the case of existing investment in particular industries. Potential new investment is highly mobile, but frequently, existing investment is not mobile other than over a period of time. The existing plant and equipment normally will have only limited alternative use. Particularly if the industry is in a nonmetropolitan area, the displaced labour force will have difficulty in easily finding alternative employment in the area. If people are forced to leave the area at short notice to find new work, and especially if they have to go to a metropolitan area for employment, then there are important and very considerable economic and, just as important, social costs incurred. I am therefore very strongly of the view that tariff changes should occur gradually. If the Government takes a decision that an industry is too high cost an industry and should not continue to be protected, then the reduction in protection should be phased in over a period sufficiently long to permit the resources in the industry to move to other industries with the minimum of economic and social disruption. If such an approach is not followed the costs resulting from the tariff reduction may very well outweigh the benefits. As with most things in life- economic and other- the rate of change rather than change itself is the most critical factor influencing the ability of the individual or the institution to cope with and adjust to the change without too severe debilitating effects. 
It should also be recognised by governments that what is an acceptable rate of change in the area of tariff policy depends importantly on the general level of activity in the economy at any particular time. It also depends on the location of the industry affected and on the availability of adjustment assistance, both to the companies concerned and to their employees. I believe that the Government should pay increasing regard to the need for adjustment assistance if it is going to pursue policies- tariff or other-designed to increase the efficiency of resource utilisation in Australia. There is also a great need to devote more attention to training persons for new jobs in a world in which change is constantly being forced upon us. 
I also believe that in framing its tariff policy towards a particular industry, government should pay more regard than it has tended to do in the past to the external costs involved in inducing change in the structure of the industry. For example, if an industry in a non-metropolitan area is forced to close down because of a tariff decision and the employees are forced to move to a metropolitan area to find alternative employment, there are definite costs involved in providing new housing in the metropolitan area and in the added pressure on existing services in the city concerned. These costs are difficult to quantify but they must not be ignored simply for that reason. Equally, account should be taken of the costs incurred by the whole community in which the industry operates. For example, the sudden closure of a major factory in my own electorate of Ballaarat would have significant adverse consequences for Ballaarat in terms of its effect on other supplier and servicing industries and on the tertiary sector of the city. The real and lasting consequences on the economy of Ballaarat must be taken into full account when the tariff decision is first being considered. 
I make a plea  to  the Government to make its tariff policy intentions clearly known and at an early date. There is uncertainty in my own electorate as to what is the Government's attitude, in actual practice, towards tariffs. A clear and early statement would be an important element in generating the greater degree of confidence within the private sector that the Government is seeking. In this connection I expect that the Government's forthcoming White Paper on manufacturing industry will be of great significance. It is being produced at a time when we need to take a long and a hard look at the type of Australia we want over the remainder of this century and at the interrelationships between the different sectors of the economy. There is clear evidence pointing to the likelihood of a slowdown in the rate of population and an even more rapid reduction in the rate of growth of the work force. This is of the utmost importance for tariff policy since one of the major historic reasons for the protection we have provided to many manufacturing industries in the past was our wish to provide employment opportunities for a rapidly growing population. 
Again, we have witnessed in Australia since the early 1960s a major transformation in the structure of our economy as a result of the development of our mineral wealth. We are now moving to the stage of greater exploitation of our energy minerals. We have seen m the past decade a dramatic change in our external relations, notably a major increase in our relationships with the countries of Asia, many of which wish to increase their trade with Australia. In the last 3 years we have witnessed a remarkable change in the operation of the international monetary system. We, along with most other developed countries, are in the midst of a fundamental reappraisal by the community of quality of life issues, of the appropriateness of the traditional work ethic and of the whole gamut of industrial relations. All these elements have a bearing on the tariff policies we should pursue and of course on many other policies as well. These policies will help to determine the Australia of the future, including the industrial structure and the role of manufacturing industry. 
I should like to mention very briefly 2 other points. The first relates to one aspect of the Government's proposed changes in regard to motor vehicles and commercial motor vehicles which were set out in the statement of the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  in this place on 30 March 1976. The aspect I wish to deal with is that related to the reversion scheme as it is proposed to apply as from the end of 1 976. This has been debated previously but I wish to place on record my concern that the proposed abolition of the so-called reversion justification committee and the implementation in full of the reversion policy on 1 January 1977 could cause very severe difficulties for the automotive components industry in Australia. I have already discussed this matter with the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton)  in another place and I know that it is being given most careful consideration. I would, however, urge the Government to review its proposals on this matter with a view to maintaining some form of regulatory or monitoring mechanism as the reversion policy is implemented and with a view to phasing in the reversion policy over an appropriate period rather than abruptly and in total from 1 January 1977. 1 also hope that there can be an early announcement of any review of the Government's proposals in this area because pending review there is certainly a great deal of uncertainty in the industry and possible investment decisions where long lead times are involved are being frustrated at the moment. 
Finally, I draw to the attention of the House the fact that earlier this week  Mr Alf  Rattigan retired as  Chairman  of the Industries Assistance Commission.  Mr Rattigan  has been one of Australia's great public servants for many years.  His  13-year period as  chairman  of the IAC and its predecessor, the Tariff Board, has been accompanied by a major development of the role and the stature of the IAC, and in this  Mr Rattigan  has made a fundamental contribution. I thank him for all he has done to assist the economic development of Australia. I wish him well in his retirement, if retirement is the right word. I rather suspect and certainly hope that his energies and abilities will be in heavy and continuing demand. At the same time I take this opportunity to offer  Mr Rattigan  's successor at the IAC,  Mr Bill  McKinnon, my best wishes for a successful period of office.  Mr McKinnon,  too, has had a distinguished career in public service. I have been privileged to work closely with him in various capacities over a long period. He is a very able man and I am confident that he, like his predecessor, will make a significant contribution to the Australian economy in his onerous new position. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
Is the present pricing policy of the Australian Telecommunications Commission based entirely on a principle of the user pays. 
If so, are all individual prices determined on this basis, or does the principle relate to the overall financial return to the Commission. 
Is strict adherence to the principle compatible with the Commission's duty, as outlined in Section 6 ( 1) of the  Telecommunications Act  1975, to perform its functions in such a manner as will best serve the social, industrial and commercial needs of the Australian people for telecommunications services. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
Has the Government considered the selective development of centres outside the metropolitan areas; if so, when will its intention be made known. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1 ) What would be the capital cost involved in adapting or introducing telephone equipment to have local calls charged on a 3 minute unit basis. 
What would be the increase in annual revenue to the Telecommunications Commission if local calls were charged on a 3 minute unit basis at the present local call rate for each 3 minute unit. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the marginal cost of a new telephone connection in Melbourne and Sydney at the present time. 
What is the connection charge to new telephone subscribers in (a) metropolitan and (b) non-metropolitan areas. 
Is the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations aware of reported action by certain unions against individual unionists for working in accordance with the terms and conditions of their employment during the so-called Medibank strike? Is he aware that 11 members of the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union in Ballarat have been fined $20 by their branch for working during the strike? What avenues are available to these persons and to other rank and file unionists in a similar situation? 
It would be difficult to imagine a matter of more important public concern than that which has been raised by the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Falconer)  today. It is a matter which should be of concern to each and every Australian. It is a matter which I know is coming increasingly to exercise the minds of a vast number of rank and file trade unionists. I have rarely, if ever, heard a speech so irrelevant to the real issue as the one we heard from the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  today. 
In my electorate of Ballaarat, certain members of the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union have already been fined for working during the 4-hour Medibank stoppage on 30 June. It is possible that they will also be disciplined for working during the national stoppage on 12 July. I understand that other trade unionists in Ballarat are facing a similar situation. Let me describe to the House the circumstances surrounding the fine already imposed on these men. It illustrates the reason for what should be the grave concern of all Australians at the present industrial situation in this country. I am advised that early in June 1976 an AMWU notice was placed on the notice board at John Valves Pty Ltd, a major company in Ballarat and the largest valve maker in Australiaand an Australian-owned company. The notice said that there would be a State-wide stoppage over the Medibank issue on 16 June. At no time was any meeting held at John Valves to seek the view of AMWU workers about whether they wished to strike on that day. At 4 p.m. on IS June the AMWU shop steward in the pattern shop told his AMWU members that the proposed stoppage the following day would not now occur. Consequently, several men turned up for work on the sixteenth, only to be told that they were in fact to go on strike. Seven men decided individually to remain on the job. 
On 24 June a meeting was held between the 7 men, the shop stewards and the AMWU organiser for the area. It was agreed that the organiser would call a meeting of all AMWU members employed by the company to discuss the Medibank issue. The 7 men agreed to abide by the majority decision of that meeting. Relying on the organiser's promise to call such a meeting, the 7 men stopped work for 4 hours on 25 June. At a lunchtime meeting on 28 June, the organiser did not raise the Medibank issue as he had promised he would do. Instead, a vote was taken on a motion calling for a vote of confidence in the Trades Hall Council and for a request to stop work. The motion was defeated by at least a twothirds majority. The AMWU organiser refused to accept that decision. Eleven AMWU members worked at John Valves during the Victorian Medibank strike on 30 June. Subsequently they were fined the maximum of $20 permitted under AMWU rules. The fine was imposed by the Ballarat Branch of the AMWU after a 4 1/2-hour meeting. The men now have decided to appeal to the State Council of the AMWU. If their appeal is unsuccessful, they will take proceedings under the provisions of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. 
These men have been disciplined by their union for exercising their fundamental right- the right to work. They have been disciplined for working during a political strike. They have been disciplined by their union for working during a strike 2 days after a greater than two-thirds majority of members at a mass meeting at the plant had rejected the union organiser's request to stop work. They have been disciplined for a matter which they claim does not fall within the disciplinary rules of their union. 
There is no shadow of doubt that the vast majority of rank and file trade unionists in Australia are fed up with the growing militancy and increasing use of the strike tactic being employed in this country by a small core of extreme left wing union officials. These officials are costing their members hundreds of millions of dollars in lost wages each year. They are costing the nation millions of dollars in lost production each week. Through their disruptive tactics they are bringing this nation of ours to its knees. As a result they are also costing thousands of workers their jobs. How can we compete with the rest of the world, how can we maintain, let alone improve, our living standards if this disruption continues? How can we produce sufficient real wealth to enable us adequately to meet the needs of the aged, the sick and the young if this state of affairs continues? The simple answer is that we cannot. 
But it is not just our economy or our social welfare programs that are at stake in this. There are other major issues. There is the issue of the role of responsible trade unionism in Australia. There is the issue of the basic rights of trade unionists. There is the issue of democracy- of our whole way of life as we have evolved it over generations. 
People who speak against the extreme left of the union movement are not infrequently accused of union bashing. Speaking for myself, nothing could be further from the truth. There is a great need in Australia for a strong trade union movement. But the trade union movement cannot be strong if it is not at the same time responsible; if it does not take decisions which are in the interests of its members and of the community as a whole.  (Quorum formed) 
The overwhelming majority of trade unionists want to be responsible, but the extreme left is preventing them from exercising responsibility. Why should this be so? The answer is simple. It is because the extreme left wants to destroy the socio-economic system which operates in Australia. It says so publicly. What it does not say is what it proposes to put in its place. The left wing of the union movement is dominated by members of one or other of the 2 communist parties in Australia- in particular by  Mr Laurie  Carmichael,  Mr John  Halfpenny and  Mr Pat  Clancy. Between them,  Mr Carmichael  and  Mr Halfpenny  control the entire industrial strategy of the Communist Party of Australia. These gentlemen do not mince words.  Mr Halfpenny  is on record as saying that he sees political strikes as a way of bringing about direct confrontation between the trade union movement and governments, of whatever political persuasion. 

 Mr Pat Clancy, the  president  of the other communist party- the Socialist Party of Australiawho is also national secretary of the Building Workers' Industrial Union and a member of the Australian Council of Trade Unions' interstate executive, was reported in the communist  Tribune  on 9 June of this year as saying: 
We must take part in political strikes to bring about a change in the political actions of the enemies of the working class. 
Have honourable members ever heard more inflammatory- and archaic- rhetoric than that? 
I said earlier that political strikes not only usurp the rights and responsibilities of individual trade union members, they also put democracy at risk. I am gravely concerned at the way in which the extreme left wing of the trade union movement is increasingly denying rank and file trade union members their basic rights as unionists. I am gravely concerned at the risks inherent in the present situation for the future of responsible trade unionism in Australia. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Motion (by  Mr Graham)  put: 
That the honourable member be granted an extension of time. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Government considered the future development of the tanning and the footwear manufacturing industries in Australia. 
If so will the Minister take early steps to inform these industries, as a lack of clear guidelines is causing uncertainty, particularly to those in the non-metropolitan areas. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it a fact that the price of hides in Australia has risen by up to 350 per cent since early 1 975. 
Has this price rise been brought about mainly because of competition from overseas purchasers of hides. 
Has the price rise had a detrimental effect on the tanning industry in Australia. 
What effect has the increase in the price of hides had on the footwear manufacturing industry in Australia. 
I wish to bring to the attention of the House 2 union actions which have taken place in the City of Ballarat in recent days and which directly threaten the jobs of at least 60 people and, indirectly, the jobs of many others. Both actions involve the imposition of black bans by unions. 
The first case relates to the largest electrical retailing and repair firm in Ballarat- John and L. Lewis Discounts. The firm employs 22 persons, having been built up from a minimal staff over the last five or so years. Industrial relations in the firm are excellent; so too are the terms and conditions of employment. Members of the staff do not belong to a union and have signed a document to the effect that no pressure has been put on them by the proprietor,  Mr Lewis,  to prevent them from joining a union. Of their own volition they are adamantly opposed to joining a union because they wish to have no truck with the growing involvement of unions in political matters. They have said so publicly. The men have been under strong pressure from the Trades and Labor Council in Ballarat and from outside union organisers to join the Electrical Trades Union. On 5 occasions union officials have visited the firm. On all 5 occasions their demands that the staff join the ETU have been clearly rejected by the men themselves. 
After the second visit the union placed a black ban on the supply of Sanyo equipment to the firm. After the fourth visit a further black ban was placed on a Ballarat carrying firm- Kennedy Murray (Ballarat) Pty Ltd- which delivers to John and L. Lewis. After the fifth visit the black bans were extended to 2 other firms of carriers, including one of Ballarat 's largest carriers, Rixon Transport. The union officials have made no bones of the fact that if the staff of John and L. Lewis do not submit to these tactics of blackmail and intimidation, they will do all in their power to close the firm down completely. 
The second case relates to the firm of Stan Farquhar Pty Ltd, potato and produce merchants. The firm employs 35 to 40 persons. It is neither fully unionised nor non-unionised. Without any direct contact with management, this week the Storemen and Packers Union placed a black ban on the delivery of Farquhar's onions and potatoes. The Managing Director has heard second hand that the ban has been imposed because of the dismissal of an employee, but there has not been one dismissal from the firm in the past 6 months. The Managing Director has informed me that the firm will close down completely if the black ban is not lifted. Not only will 35 to 40 people be thrown out of work, but the closure will also have an employment effect on those companies and persons supplying and receiving supplies from Farquhars. 
I raise these matters before the House as yet two more examples of the victimisation that certain trade union officials in this country are wreaking not only on the Australian nation but on the overwhelming majority of hard-working, responsible workers in this country. It is a course of action which is repugnant to all thinking Australians and it must be stopped. 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. Is it a fact that capital inflow is only one element of the overall balance of payments position of a country? Is it also a fact that it is the overall balance of payments outcome and not capital inflow  per se  which determines the effect of the external account on the domestic money supply? Is it a fact that the Government determines its monetary policy on the basis of overall monetary aggregates rather than on individual elements of the aggregate? Finally, is it a fact that all Federal Treasurers should be aware of these simple facts, including even former Treasurers who are now sitting opposite in this chamber? 
-Does the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations recall my asking him earlier this session a question in relation to the rights of trade unionists who were fined by their unions for working during the Medibank strike? Does he also recall my recently informing the House about 11 Amalgamated Metal Workers Union members in Ballarat who had been so fined by their local branch and who had announced their intention to take action through the Industrial Court if their appeal to the State Council of the AMWU failed? Does the Minister have any later information on this matter? 
-I rise with pleasure tonight to support the Budget introduced by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  and to reject completely the amendment moved by the Opposition, an amendment which, in the light of the performance of the Whitlam Government while in office, can be described in no other way than as hypocritical and designed to hoodwink the Australian people. The Australian people showed on 13 December that they will no longer be hoodwinked by the gentlemen opposite. The Budget debate is usually a constructive debate. It is customary for the Opposition, in presenting its case against the Budget, to present its alternative policy. Regrettably, such has not been the case during this Budget debate. I have read and reread the contributions made by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam),  by the shadow Treasurer, the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  and by the 3 honourable members who held the position of Treasurer during the period of the Whitlam Government. The speech of the Leader of the Opposition not only was lacking in constructive comment but also was positively dangerous. It was a rehash of all of the things that Labor did whilst in office, all those things that led Australia to the brink of economic disaster. The Leader of the Opposition said, in effect, that he would do it all again. He has not learned, and he will never learn, that you cannot run an economy in the way in which he tried to ruin it and expect to survive. As the Melbourne  Age  editorial of 26 August so neatly put it: 
The Leader of the Opposition did nothing but stroll down Memory Lane. 
Perhaps that is understandable because he has nowhere else to go. To the dismay, though, I am sure, of all Australians, the honourable member for Adelaide, the shadow Treasurer, fared no better in this debate. The best he could manage was this cliche: 
Effective economic policy must aim not only at reducing inflation but also at reducing unemployment, increasing the rate of economic growth, reducing inequalities in income and maintaining balance of payments equilibrium. 
Who was the honourable member for Adelaide trying to convert? It certainly was no one on this side of the House, because that is the whole thrust of the Government's policy. The honourable member for Adelaide, however, is also blinkered, like his leader, from the actual experience of the 1973-75 period. That experience has shown that governments cannot spend wildly and indiscriminately as Labor did and still expect inflation to be contained and unemployment to be reduced. The contribution of the honourable member for Adelaide in this debate completely ignored the nexus which I think most economists in the Western world would now agree exists between inflation and unemployment. 
The 3 former Labor Treasurers, I am afraid, performed no better. My friend, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  for whom I have great respect as a person but for whose economic expertise my respect must be somewhat less than fulsome, had this to say: 
By and large, a Budget at best is a statement of projected receipts and expenditure. 
A budget, I would say, is very much more than that. The honourable member for Melbourne Pons went on to say: 
Candidly, I would not have thought it would matter a great deal if this Budget had a deficit of S3 billion instead of the projected $2.6 billion when one looks at some of the things that might have been done. Another S400m could have been spent on things plenty of people can think of or $400m less could be collected in taxes, which in some respects can have the same effect. 
I have to say that if $400m here or there is not seen to be significant at this time, if the scope for tax reductions or the avoidance of tax increases is not important, no wonder the Labor Party in this Parliament stands indicted for its 3 years of economic chaos. However, to his credit the honourable member for Melbourne Ports did talk about the Budget. That is more than can be said for his successor as Treasurer, the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns). His  contribution consisted of nothing more than a Marxist expose of the class struggle. No wonder he was scheduled to speak at 10 o'clock at night. The honourable member for Lalor, who is the only Treasurer, to my knowledge, of this Parliament never to introduce a Budget, is 50 years out of date. 
The contribution made by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  was equally pathetic. He claimed that the Budget lacked integrity. What a laugh that is coming from a former Treasurer who, by sleight of hand and by misrepresentation, presided last year over a savage attack on the taxpayers of Australia in the name of reform. Not one Opposition spokesman in this debate has put forward one constructive alternative to the Government's Budget strategy. Not one Opposition spokesman has mentioned those policy measures of the last 9 months which have done more to restore economic stability and to improve equity and welfare in Australia than any other government has achieved in a full term of office for very many years. I mention but a few of those measures. There was the introduction of full personal tax indexation, the new system of family allowances, the major increase in assistance to the aged and the handicapped, the automatic linking of pensions to changes in the consumer price index. These are great achievements, of lasting benefit to all Australians. 
I have no doubt whatsoever that the thrust of the Budget is in the right direction. Time alone will tell whether it is successful in repairing the ravages of the previous Administration. If it does not, if there are not strong signs of recovery in the first half of the calendar year 1977, then the Government will obviously have to review the situation. But until such time it is incumbent upon all Australians to give the Budget a go, to work positively to ensure that it does work. That will require hard work and co-operation on all our parts. No Budget will work unless we all pull together, and that applies in the field of wages and prices and in the field of industrial relations, just as much as it does in the field of fiscal and monetary policy. 
-I ask the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs: Has the Government received any message or any ultimatum either from President Suharto or from any other senior Indonesian Minister calling for the closure of the Fretilin radio transmitter in northern Australia? 
My question which is directed to the Minister for Health refers to the dispute between the Government and the Pharmacy Guild of Australia over the payment of chemists' fees following the May 1975 report of a committee on pricing arrangements composed of representatives of the Guild and of the Government and over the appointment of an independent arbitrator to decide on the appropriate level of fees in the future. I ask the Minister whether there have been any recent developments in this unfortunate matter and, if so, whether he can inform the House as to the likehood  of any early settlement of the outstanding points of disagreement? 
-I rise to support the Estate Duty Assessment Amendment Bill which fulfils yet another of the election promises of the Liberal and National Country parties. This Bill, which significantly increases the exemption from estate duty where the whole or part of the estate of a deceased person passes to a surviving spouse, imposes a cost to the revenue of $ 1 4m in a full year. That this measure can be introduced at a time when the Government has to exercise a considerable degree of restraint in order to bring the economy back on to an even keel, a keel from which this nation can surge forward once again, is, as the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  said in his second reading speech, a measure of the Government's determination to press on with reform to the taxation system. Many of these reforms are not only necessary on grounds of efficiency and equity but also are long overdue. 
The Bill also amends the Estate Duty Assessment Act in several ways which will have the major effect of reducing the burden of work on the administrators of deceased estates. I will not dwell on this subject tonight but I point out to the House the real benefits which this Bill provides in these respects. The substantive aspects of the Bill exclude from liability for estate duty the value, up to $50,000, of the spouse's interest in the estate where the estate passes to the spouse in whole rather than in part and entirely exempts estates from duty up to a value of $90,000 or $98,000 in the case of a primary producer estate where the estate passes wholly from spouse to spouse. These concessions should go a long way to alleviate many of the personal hardships which have been inflicted on thousands of surviving spouses under the operation of the existing Act. About 20 per cent of presently dutiable estates will cease to be dutiable altogether, and the impact of duties on larger estates will be considerably reduced. 
This legislation is compassionate legislation. It meets a real need and it shows a real concern for people at a critical time in their lives when they are suffering the grievous personal loss of a husband or a wife. For this reason the Bill deserves the full support of both sides of the House and I am very pleased to see that it has this support. I do think, however, that as a Parliament we need to give much consideration to the future of Federal estate duty. The duty was first introduced in 1914 as a revenue measure to help finance the 
First World War. There have been changes to the estate duty law over the years, but in essence it remains much the same as it was 60 years ago. The rates of duty, for example, have, I understand, been unchanged since 1940 although the exemption limits have been raised during that period. 
The Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations, which looked at both Federal and State death duties, reported on death duties late in 1 973. The Asprey Committee also had much to say on estate duties in its report last year. The Treasury submitted a very useful document on estate duties to the Asprey Committee. These various reports and documents took varying views on the desirability of continuing death duties. The Treasury document made it pretty clear that that Department considered on grounds of both fiscal efficiency and equity that estate duties should continue to be levied. So did the Asprey Committee. The report of the Senate Standing Committee was a split report. One group of senators felt that estate duty should continue. Another group, which included the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton)  and the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle),  considered that the Commonwealth should completely vacate the field and that the States should examine the possibilities of gradually reducing their death taxes with the view to eventual abolition. Although views are divided as to the desirability or otherwise of retaining death duties, every committee and every expert agrees that the whole system of death duties has many major problems associated with it. There are many problems commonly raised. The tax is a highly complex one and has produced an enormous volume of case law. 
The cost of collecting death taxes is high relative to virtually all other forms of taxation. The revenue collected is very small as a proportion of total revenue. In the Commonwealth's case it is only some 0.5 per cent of total tax collections. It is, or was, a more significant proportion of State revenue collections and on average represented about 10 per cent. However, Queensland has now abolished death duties and all other States have significantly liberalised the death duty provisions. In particular, most of them have either abolished or are in the process of abolishing duty on spouse to spouse transfers. Most of these States have foreshadowed further liberalisation, including in some instances total abolition. It is little wonder that revenue collections from Federal estate duty is so small. More than 80 per cent of all estates for which estate duty assessments are issued have a total value of less than $100,000 and that includes the matrimonial home. In more than 50 per cent of cases the total value of the estate is less than $50,000. This more than 50 per cent contributes less than 5 per cent of total estate duty revenue collection. 
It is also argued by many students of the subject that estate duty poses severe hardship to rural producers the great bulk of whose assets consist of their farms. These are illiquid assets. In many instances rural properties have to be sold simply to enable the survivors to meet their estate duty obligations. This imposes real financial and personal hardship particularly when, as is not infrequently the case, the property has been in the hands of the one family for generations. A similar situation can and easily does arise for small businessmen. It is also generally accepted that estate duty is constantly being avoided and/or evaded by a whole variety of complex arrangements and it is the large estate owner who is in the best position to so arrange his affairs. 
It can also be argued that the present estate duty law pays no regard to the capacity of the beneficiary to meet his duty obligations. There are other difficulties, not least of which is the problem of appropriate valuation of the assets of a deceased estate. On the other side of the coin it must be recognised that, apart from income tax, estate duty is the only direct tax with a general coverage levied on persons in Australia. If Australia had no death duties and did not impose any other form of capital or wealth tax we would be the only advanced Western country levying no other direct tax apart from income tax. It is also a forceful argument that wealth and not just income does confer benefits on persons and that as a matter of equity wealth should be taxed at some time during its life. Most people would accept the view that it is not desirable in our society that there be uncontrolled accumulations of wealth in the hands of individuals, though I have some doubts whether the present system of death duties really does much in this direction. At this stage I would not necessarily advocate the complete abolition of estate duty. The matter obviously requires much further study. For example, there is a very close relationship between gift and estate duties. There is also a fundamental relationship between death duties and the whole area of income tax. The Asprey Committee pointed very tellingly to the urgent need for a major reform of the whole structure of taxation in this country. The Government has said that it will tackle taxation reform, and I applaud that. It has already done much, notably the introduction of full personal tax indexation, the most progressive taxation reform in Australia for at least a generation. However, it is a long, slow, difficult process and one where radical change cannot and should not be introduced overnight. Estate duty should loom large in any such reform of the taxation system. 
Debate interrupted. 
-When the debate on this Bill was adjourned on 21 October I was saying that estate duty should loom large in the reform of the taxation system which is urgently needed and which this Government has pledged itself to undertake. I said also that major overhaul of the taxation system would be a long, slow and difficult process. In the meantime, however, I hope that in the next Budget the Government will be able to build further on the important and socially responsible advance which is the subject of this Bill. In particular, I hope that the Government will give very close consideration to abolishing totally estate duty on spouse to spouse transfers, subject, as may be necessary, to appropriate safeguards. This may be necessary, for example, where a surviving spouse remarries within a short period oftime. 
I would also like to see the Government raise significantly the general exemption levels in the existing law with provision for regular review of those exemption levels to take account of the erosion of real asset values resulting from inflation. As well, I would like to see the Government extend the powers of the board established under section 265 of the Income Tax Assessment Act so as to cover hardship cases relating to the imposition of death duties. At present the board has power to grant relief to taxpayers only in respect of serious hardship arising from income tax liability. I hope the Government will look at this suggestion which was recommended by the Senate committee which inquired into death duties and which was endorsed by the Asprey Committee. 
The suggestions I have made would mean a loss to revenue. Therefore, they may require offsetting increases in other areas. But the amount of revenue involved would be small, so this should not be an overwhelming argument against further reform in the field of death duties if such reform is considered desirable on social and equitable grounds, as I believe it is. Reform, by its very definition, will normally involve changes where benefits in one area meet offsets in other areas. I have pleasure in supporting this Bill. As I said earlier in my remarks, the legislation is compassionate legislation. It meets a real need and shows a real concern for people at a critical time in their lives. 
-This is the first debate on a White Paper on defence that this Parliament has had for very many years. For that reason I commend the Government for providing the opportunity for such a debate. I also commend the Government for the broad thrust of the White Paper. I pay a compliment to the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  for arranging its organisation and for being there to listen to the debate tonight. It is a subject on which we in Australia have a very great need for much more public debate and for, I believe, a bipartisan approach to the subject. Speakers from both sides have adopted such a bipartisan approach. I am very sorry that the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  was guilty of one of the most cynical, hypocritical and childish performances I have ever heard in this House. It may be that in terms of Standing Orders he was not guilty of wilful and persistent disruption, but anyone who listened to this debate tonight and anyone who read the record of this debate will have no doubt that that is precisely what he has been wanting to do, what he had doing and what he has been doing throughout this year.  (Quorum formed.)  The quorum that has just been called for simply reinforced what I was saying before it. The honourable member for Chifley might want to act in this way and to portray his Party in this way, but I do not. I want to talk about some serious matters in relation to the White Paper. I want to mention two or three main issues in which I have a particular interest. 
First, I think it is necessary to quote one or two very telling phrases from that White Paper because I think those phrases really determine how we ought to approach any debate and further thinking on the subject of defence. I can do no better than quote the first sentence of the White Paper: 
The first responsibility of government is to provide the nation with security from armed attack and from the constraints on independent national decisions imposed by the threat of such attack. 
The section of the White Paper which I think is very important- I shall come back to it later- is in the introduction and reads: 
The national defence effort is expensive, and it counts for a substantial proportion of the Government's annual expenditure. Notwithstanding the priority given by the Government to its efforts to reduce inflation and revive the national economy, it has undertaken to increase the Defence Vote over the next five years, the period the Defence Department uses for its forward programming. 
The other extract from the White Paper that I should like to mention, and it is the only other extract to which I shall refer, comes from the section where the White Paper discusses the changing world in which we live. It makes what I think to be a very telling point when it states: 
Change does not necessarily mean insecurity. 
The statement that change does not necessarily mean insecurity is a statement with which I totally agree. What I think it means is that we need to have a very close review indeed of our basic thinking in relation to our defence posture and our defence requirements. It is this aspect that I want to concentrate on tonight very briefly because I think some important issues are involved. 
Firstly, there is the issue of what sort of preparation time a nation such as Australia needs if we are under potential threat of attack or conflict in the period ahead. People make various estimates on this. One can read studies which say that the preparation time and the warning time is a period of 10 years. Not many people say it is more than that, but many do say it is 10 years; others say it is less. I have recently read a study analysing the preparation time, as distinct from the warning time- there is a difference between the two- of all the major conflicts in the world between 1939 and the mid-1970s. The study indicated that the preparation time involved for the countries concerned has been a maximum of about 2 years and 3 months. In fact, many countries have had a considerably shorter preparation time than that. 
I think that turns us to a very significant factor, that is, Australia's own domestic capacity to defend itself in times of potential danger. I personally have doubts as to how much a country such as Australia is likely to come under early threat. But any Parliament that basically ignores this point and the need for preparation is open to very considerable disputation. Because of Australia's situation in the world we have to look very closely at our domestic defence capacity. Many people say that what we need to have is a vast array of defence industries. That is a simplistic view because, in my opinion, the greatest defence capacity that any nation can have is a sound and broadly based industrial structure. Too often we separate the economics of development and the development of our manufacturing sector from our defence requirements. I believe that the 2 aspects are very closely tied. What that in turn means to me is the need for a much greater co-ordination and a much better relationship between the defence sector of our economy, in terms of the Department of Defence, and private industry than we have had in recent years. 
Like the honourable member for Chifley and others who have spoken in this debate, I am a member of a sub-committee of the Parliament which is looking at industrial backing for Australia's defence requirement. I think we have all been impressed, as we have moved around Australia looking at this matter, at the lack of communication which appears to exist between the private sector of the economy and those within government who are involved in the defence industry. To my mind there is perhaps no more important issue that we need to focus upon, and I hope that the Government will do this in the period ahead. I know that it is closely looking at the matter. 
There are many other aspects that I should like to speak on tonight. I know other speakers wish to participate in this debate, so I shall simply conclude by saying again that I congratulate the Government on die preparation of the White Paper. I believe that it forms a very useful basis for public debate, both within and outside this Parliament, on the whole subject of defence. I hope that it is the forerunner of a much greater debate in the period ahead. 
-The matter of public importance which is the subject of this debate is yet another in a series of attempts by the Opposition in recent weeks deliberately to undermine Australia's economic recovery and to destroy the confidence of the Australian people which has been rebuilt during 1 976 following the near death-blow that it suffered during the Whitlam Government's period of office. The hypocrisy of the Opposition in raising this matter today is shown very clearly by the fact that neither the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  the shadow Treasurer, nor the man who primes his bullets, the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  are participating in the debate. 
It is 12 months this weekend since the people of Australia gave the Fraser Government the largest vote of support that any government in Australia's history has ever received. In this vote of support the Australian people made it crystal clear to the Labor Party that they wanted no further truck with a government that acted in a way in which the Whitlam Government acted during its disastrous period in office. In those 3 years the Australian economy reeled from one blow after another to its basic fibre seemingly almost as a result of a deliberate policy of economic wantonness by the forces of socialism, forces that not only ruined the economy but also threatened the very way of life of millions of Australians. 
The Opposition is accusing the Fraser Government of responsibility for a fall in living standards. Never have I heard such a hypocritical or preposterous accusation. How can the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  and his emasculated backbench claim any vestige of credibility when they make such wild assertions without one whit of evidence to support them. 
-The fact is that they cannot, as my friend says. The Australian people know this as we on this side of the House and I suspect the intellectually more honest members opposite do. Let us look at some of the facts. Under the last 2 years of Labor's period of office the total level of non-farm output in Australia actually fell; in other words there was a negative rate of growth. 
This situation would have been considered unthinkable before the Labor Party took office. This situation had not previously occurred in the post-war period. At the same time the farm sector fell into a state of collapse and the standard of living of farmers declined massively in both money and real terms. The level of unemployment in this country rose by no less than threefold during the same period. This was precipitated by the highest inflation rate that this country has ever known on a sustained basis- an inflation rate which eroded the fixed assets of business and the lifetime savings of millions of Australians and made impossible of lasting attainment virtually all the social goals, many of them desirable, which Labor had set itself on coming to office in 1 972. 
It is simply not sustainable to argue as our opponents do that the calamity which befell Australia during Labor's term of office was a result of the general world economic climate. Certainly, economic conditions abroad played some part; we on this side of the House have never denied that. But the overwhelming reasons for the catastrophic situation which developed under Labor were Labor's own bungling and inept management of the economy. It was under Labor that the standard of living in this country fell. It was because of Labor's action that it fell. One only has to ask the small person in the community what happened to his living standard in 1974-75. One only has to ask the pensioners, superannuitants and others on low fixed incomes who earlier this year completed their tax returns just what they think of the monstrous Hayden rebate scheme. This scheme has caused countless thousands of low income recipients to pay exorbitant amounts of income tax as compared with what they were paying previously. One should ask also about the staggering rise in the cost of living in 1974-75 and what that did to their attempts to lead satisfying lives. One should ask the small businessman, the farmer, and the young married couple saving to buy their first home what happened to their standard of living under Labor. Perhaps most telling of all one should ask the additional 250 000 persons- onequarter of a million- young and old who became unemployed under Labor just what happened to their standards of living m 1974-75. They will say, in one simple sentence, that their standards of living declined dramatically under the Whitlam Government. 
Let us now have a look at the situation of the past 12 months. First and foremost, inflation has eased even though it still has a long way to go before it is down to an acceptable level. But the trend is in the right direction. What we as a nation must do is to ensure that this trend is maintained. If we do not inflation will destroy us. There is a responsibility on each and every one of us to ensure that this does not happen. This responsibility is shared by governments, employers, employees- in fact, by all Australians. Secondly, while inflation has eased the total level of output has risen. The rate of recovery is slow, but recovery there is. It is a recovery which is sustainable. It is the result of sound and consistent policies of economic management by the Fraser Government. 
It has been claimed by our opponents that the recent devaluation marks a reversal of the Government's economic strategy. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has demonstrated quite unequivocally that this is not so, as has the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch).  Of .course devaluation has an initial unfavourable cost and price impact, but it is simplistic in the extreme to infer from this that devaluation is therefore inconsistent with an anti-inflationary policy. Let it not be forgotten that it was the destruction of our international competitive position as a result of Labor's economic mismanagement that led to the devaluation. Devaluation should bring significant anti-inflationary benefits. In particular by stimulating domestic production and encouraging exports devaluation will lead to greater throughput and therefore to a lowering of unit fixed costs. By giving a major boost of confidence to primary producers, the rnining industry and the manufacturing sector- their confidence was shaken to the core by the Whitlam Governmentthe devaluation also should help psychologically a further recovery in the economy. 
Nevertheless the Government will need to take all reasonable steps in its power to make sure that the potential benefits are not eroded by any resurgence of inflation. The Government's review of tariffs will be an important element in this endeavour. So also will be the watchdog role of the Prices Justification Tribunal. Monetary and fiscal policy also will need to be tightly controlled. Further the attitude of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission will be of critical importance. Here I make a plea to employers, employees and the Opposition to co-operate with the Government in the tasks ahead. If we do not work together as a nation we will hang together. Far from standards of living having fallen under the Fraser Government the truth is that those standards have increased. In any judgment on a matter such as this, one must look much further than simply at movements in wages, although even wage rates have continued to rise. One must take into account many other items which go into the equation. 
The Fraser Government this year has introduced many progressive and reforming measures which have contributed to rising living standards. My friend, the honourable member for Berowra  (Dr Edwards),  mentioned those. There are many other measures which have been taken by the Government but time will not permit me to elaborate on them all. Many of them are highly desirable reforming and progressive measures which the Labor Government was not prepared to undertake. But when they are all added up and taken into account with the gradual recovery of the economy, there can be no doubt that lIving standards have risen in the past year. The Opposition- a combination of yesterday's men and tomorrow's nobodies- has once again in this debate revealed to the House and to the people of Australia that it is a negative Opposition, an Opposition without one constructive idea in the field of economic management and an Opposition which, if it ever crept back into power, as surely as day follows night would plunge this country back into economic darknessa darkness from which in the past 12 months we have slowly but steadily emerged. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs: 
Is lycine a valuable amino acid in the context of Australia's food aid program? 
Is the unit cost of providing lycine through meat protein less than that through wheat protein? 
Is it practicable and/or desirable for Australia to provide more of its food aid in the form of canned beef luncheon meat? 
If so, will the Government examine the desirability of increasing its food aid going through the World Food Program in the form of canned meat, as a proportion of Australia's total food aid program? 
-We have heard yet again in this debate the weary, sterile and negative approach of the Opposition to the economic problems confronting this nation. When its approach has deviated it has been in the direction of the same old medicine that led Australia to near ruin in the period from 1973 to 1975. The Opposition also stands indicted for its continual attempts to talk down the economy. Opposition spokesmen are Jeremiahs and prophets of doom. They do not want the economy to recover under the Fraser Government. They are doing their level best to ensure that it does not. Quite deliberately they are generating fear amongst businessmen, employees and consumers as to the future of our nation. They are playing politics with economic recovery. They know it and they stand condemned for it. 
Tonight I would like briefly and simply to describe the present state of the economy as I see it and as I believe many thinking people in the community see it. I will not tire the House with too many statistics; the key statistics have been well set out already in this debate by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  and the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch).  The first point that must be emphasised is that inflation has receded significantly since this Government took office from a near fourfold increase under Labor to a level that priced Australia out of world markets and priced Australians out of jobs. It is still far too high; but it is being tackled, and successfully tackled. The Opposition can argue to the contrary all it likes but such argument flies in the face of the facts. 
The second point is that the economy is growing again and, with the exception of the rural sector, is growing relatively strongly, although it is patchy from one industry to another. As the Treasurer pointed out, real gross non-farm product rose by 7 per cent between the December quarter of 1975 and the September quarter of 1976. Indications are that growth has continued since then. I remind the House that in the last 18 months of the Whitlam Government real output actually fell. There was a negative rate of growth. The rural sector- or sections of it- continues to experience crisis conditions. These conditions had their genesis in the inflationary chaos of the years of the Whitlam Government. I believe that the present Government has done a great deal to assist in the recovery of the rural sector but I also believe that more will need to be done. The malaise affecting rural industry in Australia is of the first order of magnitude and all Australians, both country and city dwellers, will have to come to grips with this issue. 
My third point is that the rampage of illconceived and wasteful government expenditures which occurred under Labor has been halted. Many people forget that in the end it is the taxpayer who meets government expenditure. I am not suggesting for one moment that all Labor's expenditure programs were bad. On the contrary, many of them were desirable and necessary. But a great many were not. No government, of whatever political persuasion, can rush like a bull at a gate in the way that the Whitlam Government did and avoid major wasteful and inefficient mistakes. It is all very well to speak, as the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  is said to do, of crashing through or crashing. When the crash comes, as was inevitable under the Whitlam style of government, it is the man in the street, the pensioner, the young, the sick, the low income earner along with the higher income earner, the selfemployed, the small businessman, the worker, who suffer. Labor did not recognise this and it appears that it still does not do so. 
My fourth point is that the Fraser Government, whilst reining in government expenditure, at the same time has introduced more major economic and social reforms than perhaps any other previous government in its first year of office. The introduction of the system of family allowances did more to assist the low income earner with a family than any other measure in a generation. The introduction of full personal income tax indexation will save taxpayers $990m in income taxes that they otherwise would have paid in this year alone and next year there will be a further saving to taxpayers of $ 1,050m. The introduction of trading stock valuation adjustment will save companies some $400m in the year beginning 1 July 1977, the date of its implementation. The increase in the retention allowance under Division 7 of the Income Tax Assessment Act will be of considerable assistance to many small businesses which have been badly savaged by inflation. The substantial easing of estate duty provisions on spouse-to-spouse transfers will be of great benefit particularly to surviving spouses who do not have very high levels of assets. In my view, more needs to be done in this area, but it is a very welcome and significant start that has been made. 
The return of stability in the financing of education as a result of the restoration of triennial funding has been another major achievement of this Government. So too has been the greatly expanded program of financial assistance in the area of aged persons accommodation. Pensioners have derived great benefit from the Fraser Government's decision to tie pension increases automatically to increases in the consumer price index- something that Labor, for all its brave words, never had the courage to do. 
These achievements, and there are many more I could point to, are major achievements. More importantly, they are lasting achievements. They will benefit taxpayers and recipients of benefits in all future years and not just in this year. All the more remarkable is that they have been introduced in the short period of 12 months, despite the fact that the Liberal and National Country Parties in their 1975 election platform said that the implementation of these programs would take 3 years. 
I turn to the unemployment situation. No one would suggest that it is satisfactory. Of course it is not. Unemployment is too high, particularly amongst young people; but what our opponents conveniently and wilfully neglect to mention is that this Government has at least arrested the skyrocketing increase in unemployment which occurred while Labor was in office and which showed no signs of abating at the time which the electorate said enough was enough in December 1975. Labor omits to mention that during its period of office total unemployment rose by more than 150 per cent and youth unemployment almost doubled. That trend has now been arrested. Admittedly, employment in the last 12 months rose only modestly, but that is always the case in the early stages of recovery from economic recession- and what a recession we had under Labor. There is no doubt that employment opportunities are now increasing more rapidly and that, provided we can achieve through the co-operation of government, employers, employees and the trade union movement a reasonable measure of wage restraint in the months ahead, we will see a sharp rise in employment and a reduction in unemployment during 1 977. 
In the interim, the Government has done a great deal to assist the unemployed, particularly the young unemployed. It has also done much to improve employment opportunities by increasing the scope for training of skilled workers, for example, through the recent complete overhaul of the apprenticeship training scheme- an overhaul that has met with very wide acceptance by all involved. These are positive measures; they are constructive; and they are imaginative. How different in these respects are they from the negative and repressive measures that Labor adopted- measures that simply aggravated the situation which Labor had created through its gross mismanagement of the economy. However, I agree with the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  that we need a careful study of the structure of unemployment and a very careful examination of whether we do in fact have a long term problem on our hands in this regard. 
Labor economic spokesmen are arguing for immediate tax reduction and for increased government spending. What a recipe for disaster. The Opposition is vague on which taxes it would cut and which spending it would increase. It ignores past experience which shows quite conclusively that such measures do not work in the type of economic situation we face today. They are in fact counter-productive. Labor ignores the view of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development that the present policies of the Federal Government are virtually the only ones possible in the conditions applying. Labor ignores the effect of its proposals on the money supply and therefore on inflation. Labor wants to do 1972 to 1975 all over again, conveniently forgetting that rather than leading to lower taxes its proposals inevitably lead in the end to higher and higher taxes to feed higher and higher government expenditure and to induce higher and higher unemployment. In short, Labor has not learnt from its past blunders which cost each and every Australian very dearly. The honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  in his remarks today attempted to stir unease within the Government's back benches. I assure the honourable member that that corny tactic will not work because the back bench knows- its electorate is telling it- that the Government's policies are the right ones. 
Above all, what the Fraser Government has done through its restoration of sanity to economic management has been to give each and every taxpayer in the community more opportunity to keep more of what he earns and to spend his income in the way he wishes to rather than to have big brother government take it away from him in ever increasing taxes and decide, without his involvement, how his income will be spent. I cannot stress enough to the House the vast gulf which exists between the Government and Opposition parties in this respect. The 
Labor Party is unashamably a party of big brother government. It genuinely believes that it knows better than the man in the street what the man in the street wants. It genuinely believes that the man in the street is better off if he is taxed blind to enable government to pay for programs which government feels are in his interests. 
Down that road lies totalitarianism and the progressive restriction of the freedom of the individual, the basic right of the individual to exercise the maximum freedom of choice, compatible with the rights of his fellow citizens. That is the real question at issue here. It is not just a matter of economics. It is as well a matter of basic political philosophy. The Whitlam Government deliberately set out to ruin the private sector of this nation between 1972 and 1975 because through this it could see the way to increase its influence and its dominance over the lives of each and every Australian. Fortunately, the voters of Australia saw the light in December 1975 before it was too late. As a result, the voters elected a Government which is dedicated to increasing the freedom of the individual and the respect of his basic rights as an individual, while at the same time exercising its responsibility as a Government to protect and to assist those in our community who cannot care adequately for themselves. Opposition speakers in the debate know fully that this is the case. That is the reason for their opposition to the economic policies of this Government. That is the reason- apart altogether from the crazy economics implied in the Opposition's amendment- why I utterly reject the amendments and heartily endorse the basic economic policy thrust of the Government. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I wish to take tie time of the House briefly tonight to refer to the tragedy which occurred in western Victoria last Saturday in the form of the most disastrous bush fires that the State has seen for almost 10 years. I raise the matter because the fires were concentrated in several electorates including my own. The others were the electorate of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  Wannon, and the electorate of the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street),  Corangamite. 
The loss of lives, homes, livestock, grazing and fencing which occurred in western Victoria last Saturday really had to be seen to be believed. The tragedy, both personal and financial, is an enormous one. I take this opportunity to express to all those involved my deep sympathy and the sympathy of all the more fortunate members of my electorate in the tragedy that has befallen so many people in rural areas who, in any event, were experiencing very difficult conditions. 
I take this opportunity also to congratulate the Government on the measures which were announced today to provide assistance to the victims of the fires and on the speed with which those measures have been implemented. For the purposes of the record, I congratulate the people who were involved in fighting the fires and in providing assistance to the fire fighters in a whole host of ways. The co-operation of all concerned was quite magnificent. 
The area that was most affected in my electorate was the Shire of Creswick, based on the town of Creswick. That was where the centre of the fire fighting operations was based. Shopkeepers at Creswick kept their stores open almost all night. They provided food and other needs for the fire fighters free of charge. The Salvation Army and the Red Cross did a superb job in attending to those who had suffered in various ways from the fires. The example of selflessness, team work and co-operation exhibited in that area last weekend- I know that it was repeated in all other fire devastated areas- was something that did great credit to all concerned. I was left wondering, after having spent some hours in the area, just why it is that we need something like a disaster of that nature to bring us together and to cause us to exhibit those qualities that we know Australians have but which all too often we seem to lose sight of in other than emergency situations. I think the example of courage and cooperation exhibited by many hundreds of people last weekend in the face of very great adversity was something of which we as Australians can all be very proud and I hope we may all be able to draw some lessons for the future from it. 
-Can the Prime Minister advise the House as to the ways in which the income equalisation deposit scheme can provide assistance to primary producers whose income for taxation purposes will be increased by the inclusion of proceeds of forced sales of livestock or of insurance recoveries for losses of livestock as a consequence of the disastrous bushfires that devastated large areas of western Victoria last weekend? 
-My question is directed to the Treasurer and follows the very welcome measures of assistance announced last week by the Government for the victims of the recent disastrous bushfires in western Victoria. My question relates to the method of taxing expenditure on replacement of fencing and other essential property items on farms, particularly where the fencing and property are insured. Is it a fact that a farmer who has had fencing destroyed in the fires and who receives insurance payments to cover the fencing is required to include those insurance payments as taxable income in the year of receipt? Is it also a fact that the farmer can depreciate the replacement cost of the fencing at only 4V4 per cent in the first year of replacement? If the answer to both those questions is in the affirmative, is the Treasurer aware of the tremendous financial difficulty that replacing destroyed fencing will impose on the farmers, particularly given that boundary fencing is an essential requirement on properties carrying livestock? If that is the situation, will the Treasurer take immediate steps to examine the matter with a view either to altering the method of taxing insurance receipts for fencing destroyed by the fires and/or permitting a full write off in the year in which the expense is incurred for replacing fencing so destroyed? 
-This Bill to abolish the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads is an important Bill and one which I believe has perhaps been misunderstood in various quarters as to its effects. The Bureau of Roads has earned since its creation in 1964 an enviable reputation for the quality of its research and its advice to government through the Minister for Transport on road funding needs. As well, as the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  said in his second reading speech on the Bill, the Bureau has been a leader and an innovator in the fields of transport data collection and of analytical and evaluation procedures. Most importantly, it has developed and adapted these techniques to total systems of public works rather than the project approach which is still predominant in many other areas of public works. 
I congratulate the Bureau on the excellent work it has performed. We as a nation are better off as a result of the professional and objective approach the Board has consistently adopted at all times. If I thought that this Bill to repeal the Bureau of Roads and to amalgamate it into a new organisation was going to mean that the professionalism, expertise and independence of the Bureau would be lost to Australia then I would oppose the Bill. But it seems clear to me from the Minister's second reading speech that not only would this be quite at odds with the Government's intentions but as well there is no prospect that this will happen in practice. Indeed, the opposite is likely to be the case. 
The amalgamation of the Bureau of Roads and the Bureau of Transport Economics into a new organisation also to be known as the Bureau of Transport Economics is a logical step and one which should bring considerable benefits in helping to co-ordinate the independent research work and advice flowing to government over the whole range of transport. It is perhaps unfortunate that the name of the new organisation, the Bureau of Transport Economics, is the same as that of one of the 2 existing bureaux which are being amalgamated, although it is the logical name for the organisation. It conjures up notions of a takeover of the Bureau of Roads by the BTE, but I accept the Minister's clear assurances that this is not the fact. 
I have in my electorate, as have other honourable members, particularly in Victoria, received strong representation from local government authorities, including the Australian Council of Local Government Associations, about the amalgamation of the Bureau of Roads into a new Bureau of Transport Economics. I respect the views of these representatives. I have met with many of them and I am impressed with the points they have raised not only in relation to this matter but as well in relation to the much broader issue of policy towards roads. 
Local government has requested, firstly that the amalgamation should be effected by legislation rather than administrative decision; secondly, that the new Bureau should be attached to the Department of Transport rather than incorporated within the Department; thirdly, that all previous policy advisory functions should be maintained; fourthly, that advice from the Bureau should be direct to the Minister for Transport; and fifthly, that the Director should have senior status and a high level of professional and administrative autonomy. The Minister in his second reading speech has met local government wishes in respect of the third and fourth points and, I believe, the fifth point. 
So far as the first 2 points are concerned, as I understand it, the main reason for local government requests was to ensure the independence of the new bureau in its research and advisory capacities. It is technically not necessary for the new organisations to be effected by legislation in order to obtain this independence. The existing Bureau of Transport Economics was not established by legislation; yet it has the same autonomy as the Bureau of Roads, which was established by legislation. The Director of the existing BTE has direct access to the Minister in precisely the same way as does the  Chairman  of the Bureau of Roads. 
The existing Bureau of Transport Economics has also built up a highly regarded expertise and objectivity in its 5 to 6 years of existence. Its work has been commended both in Australia and overseas. As the Minister said, neither its integrity nor its independence of operation has ever been challenged. The Minister has stated unequivocally that 'the new body will act as independently in undertaking research and supplying advice as the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads and the Bureau of Transport Economics have in the past'. I accept that assurance and I hope that local government does too. Let me assure local government that if experience does not bear this out then I will be at the forefront in raising the matter with the Minister. 
It is vital to the economy of this nation that we have the most efficient and cost-effective transport system that it is possible to achieve. The various arms of the transport sector are in many ways closely interrelated. There is therefore a very strong argument that there should be one organisation within the framework of government that can undertake research and provide objective advice on the various forms of transport in a co-ordinated manner. Because of our large geographic area, the dispersion around Australia of our main centres of population and therefore internal markets and because of our isolation from world markets, the cost of transport assumes huge dimensions for Australia. Transport comprises 25 per cent to 30 per cent of gross domestic product. Its share of gross national expenditure is similar. We therefore clearly have a vested interest in improving our transport efficiency. The transport industry is facing huge challenges and rapid change. We must be equipped to meet these challenges and this change. I am hopeful that the new Bureau of Transport Economics will be up to the task because it will have a vital role to play. 
I will come back to other parts of the transport sector shortly, but first let me dwell for a moment on the question of the funding of roads. The Australian Council of Local Government Associations has recently produced a booklet entitled  Local Government at End of Road.  I would commend this booklet to all honourable members. It contains many vital facts and figures relating to the funding of roads in Australia. In particular, it draws attention to the difficulties that local government faces in financing its share of roads expenditure, particularly on rural and urban local roads. It points out that the original task of local government was in fact to provide and maintain roads, and that this responsibility remains one of local government's most important functions. The booklet makes the highly valid point that there are increasing demands on local government resources and a diminishing capacity to meet these demands. 
Tonight I do not want to go into the details of the figures which the ACLGA has produced other than to say that I trust that the Minister and the Government will give them the closest consideration when taking decisions in the period ahead in relation to the Roads Grants Act. I have some difficulty in accepting all the points made by the ACLGA but I agree completely with the Association's basic contention that Australia needs good, safe and efficient roads and that failure to meet this need will only restrict the nation's economic arteries and allow a major national asset to waste. 
It is quite clear from the Association's submission that one of the basic problems facing local government in the area of roads funding is that of inflation. The Association has pointed out that inflation in the road construction industry has been increasing since 1970 at an average annual rate of 14.6 per cent, which is half as much again as the average increase in the consumer price index. The Fraser Government has taken major strides along the road to reducing inflation. Its efforts have yielded success. But there is still a long way to go. Unless we as a community recognise this, and demonstrate a better willingness to co-operate together to fight inflation than we have in recent times, not only road construction and maintenance but also a vast number of other desirable programs will be frustrated and our national living standards will be eroded. 
As a Federal Parliament we also need to give further consideration to the principles and practice of the concept of federalism because this will have a major influence on the ability of both State and local governments to play their part, along with the Federal Government, in adequately financing road needs. The Fraser Government made a giant step forward in 1976 by greatly increasing the amount of untied funds going to both State and local governments. More will be done this year. But in so doing we need to give the closest consideration to what we as a community expect of local government. If we are going to devolve more and more functions and responsibilities to local government we must give it the funds to carry out these added tasks. We must also give it the time to so build up its capacity in human resource terms as to enable it to fulfil these responsibilities. 
The basic reason why I support the Bill before the House is that I believe that the amalgamation of the Bureau of Roads and the existing Bureau of Transport Economics will enable the new organisation to provide better advice to government on the transport sector as a whole. Roads are of tremendous importance. So is rail and air transport. So too is sea transport. What we have to do is to determine community priorities in the allocation of funds between these different modes of transport, each of which performs a specialised role. We also have to determine priorities between the transport sector as a whole and all the other demands on the taxpayer's dollar. 
In my concluding remarks I wish to draw attention to the problems facing sea transport in Australia. In a continent of our size and geographic dispersion of population and our distance from overseas markets, sea transport is of great importance. Yet various factors have militated against sea transport developing its proper role in recent years. Indeed in the last 10 years the role of sea transport has declined dramatically due to a massive deterioration in its economics relative to other modes of transport. As a result, we are badly misallocating our resources in the transport area and as a nation we are therefore suffering a loss in our real income relative to what it should be. I hope that the new 
Bureau of Transport Economics will pay particular attention to the problems facing sea transport. There appear to be 2 main problems. The first is industrial unrest in areas connected with sea transport. One has only to instance the chaos being caused to the beef industry in Queensland at the moment as a result of a demarcation dispute at the Brisbane container terminal. The cost to the nation of this and similar disputes on the waterfront is enormous. The cost to beef producers, already suffering desperate circumstances, is nothing short of criminal. 
The second problem is the operating cost of Australian vessels and coastal and overseas shipping. Taking into account different crewing requirements and different rates of pay, we find that for every $1 spent on a British seaman on a British merchant ship, the equivalent cost for an Australian ship is $3.60. Even the costs of crewing Scandinavian ships, whilst these are twice as much as for British ships, are only SS per cent of Australian crew costs. The base pay of an able seaman on an Australian merchant ship in late 1976- the rate would now be higher- was $18,000 a year. On top of that there were the usual holiday loadings and superannuation benefits available under a master scheme. The able seaman is provided with an individual cabin with self-contained toilet and shower facilities. He has a choice of meal at each sitting. Colour television is now mandatory on Australian ships. As of November 1976 the able seaman worked 28 weeks a year. At that time moves were being made to have this reduced to 26 weeks but I have not had time to check whether this has come to pass. On Australian merchant ships there is a requirement of one steward for every 9 seamen. There is currently a union demand that stewards who are serving the seamen should themselves have a steward to serve them. How crazy can things get? Australian crews have the best accommodation and the best conditions of service of any seamen in the world. 
It is not only in crewing where our costs of sea transport have become astronomical Waterside labourers earn for a 26-hour week 20 per cent to 25 per cent more than the national average weekly earnings including overtime. Our ports have become the most expensive in the world. The cost per man hour of waterside labour in Australia rose by 1 98 per cent- that is, it trebled -between 1967 and 1975. There have been further large increases since then. The cost of coastal freighting in Australia has become prohibitive. My latest figures are for September 1976. They would be worse now. In September 1976 the total freight cost of delivering steel rails from Port Hedland to Japan was $32 per tonne. The cost from Port Kembla to Port Hedland was  $44  per tonne. It is more expensive to ship steel from Port Kembla to Kwinana than it is from Port Kembla to the Philippines. 
Industrial stoppages also play a major role in increasing freight costs. Of the 7670 ship days available to the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd fleet in 1975-76, more than 12 per cent of these days were lost because of industrial stoppages at sea or on the waterfront. This was the equivalent of 2V4 ships being idle for the whole year. As a result of these factors, coastal shipping has become increasingly uneconomic. As a result, rail freighting is being substituted for coastal freighting. This is almost unheard of in the annals of world transport over the distances we are talking about in Australia. Ten years ago BHP used coastal shipping almost exclusively for transporting its products. Now more than 60 per cent of steel products from Whyalla to Brisbane go by rail. More than 50 per cent of steel products from Newcastle to Brisbane go the same way. Even in regard to deliveries to Melbourne from Port Kembla 25 per cent go by rail, despite substantial investment by the company in roll-on roll-off vessels. 
These are sad commentaries on where we have headed in Australia in recent years. These trends must be reversed. In Australia we face a tyranny of distance both within Australia and between Australia and the rest of the world. We must have an efficient multimodal transport system. I am confident that the new Bureau of Transport Economics will play a major role in research in this area and in expert and objective advice to government on these matters. At the same time there is no reason whatsoever to doubt that the degree of attention paid to road needs in Australia by the Bureau of Roads will not be maintained by the new Bureau of Transport Economics. On the contrary, the facts suggest that road needs will receive even closer attention by the new organisation. Accordingly, I support the Bill. 
I want to draw the attention of this House to the disruptive series of strikes presently being orchestrated in Victorian meatworks by the Victorian Branch of the Australasian Meat Industry Employees Union, the secretary of which is  Mr Wally  Curran. The dispute is over a 19 point log of claims put forward by the Union. I seek leave to have these incorporated in  Hansard. 
-The dispute goes back almost 12 months. The log of claims was first submitted to Victorian meatworks operators about the middle of 1976. The operators rejected the log of claims, with 2 exceptions. The union in turn rejected this situation. The operators refused to renegotiate the matter with the union, but invited the union to take the full log of claims to arbitration and said it would abide by the Court's decision. The union refused to do this. These happenings occurred in July 1 976. From then until a few weeks ago the union took no further action. In February, however, at the instigation of  Mr Curran  and the Negotiating Committee of the Victorian Branch, a resolution was passed that the log of claims continue to be pressed through industrial action, without arbitration, and that this industrial action take the form initially of a 3-day stoppage in the first week of the campaign, to be followed in the ensuing 3 weeks by a one day stoppage each week. After that the question of further action was to be considered. Rumours circulating in the industry have it that this further action could take the form of a 6-month stoppage. 
The union also decided to black ban any member acting in any way to weaken the dispute. To quote the report by the union executive, published on 23 February 1977: 
There can be no backing away from this stand- We cannot allow a handful of fools to disrupt our struggle. 
The strike action commenced 2 weeks ago with a 3-day strike. This took place without any contact having been made by the union with the Victorian Meatworks Association since last July. I have two large meatworks in my own electorate. In at least one of them the employees were forced out on strike despite an earlier vote by them rejecting the union's proposed course of action. Throughout Victoria some 5500 to 6000 men are involved. Twenty-one plants are affected, and seven to eight boning works. 
It is interesting to note that the Australian Meat Industry Employees Union does not appear to be engaging in the same tactics of industrial lawlessness in other States. Is this perhaps because they do no have a  Mr Curran  as their Secretary?  Mr Curran  is quoted in the book  Inside Australia's Top 100 Trade Unions,  as saying: 'We've been involved in political strikes in this Branch' that is, the Victorian Branch- 'I suppose because of the Marxist thought in the union. But politics is part of unions' province'! Again he said: 'I don't believe there is any place in the Union movement for collaboration with employers. I have nothing but contempt for employer groups'. It is no wonder there is such industrial lawlessness by the union in Victoria. It is no wonder that at least two of the meatworks in Victoria have in the 8 months to the end of February 1977 each lost 17 000 head of cattle in production, and 1 1 000 and 18 000 sheep respectively. It is no wonder the employees in each of these works have lost $250,000 in wages while on strike. It is no wonder it has been estimated that if the present situation continues, employees in meat works affected by the strikes will lose some $6m in wages each year. 
The pressure for this lawlessness does not appear to be coming from the rank and file. This is for good reason, because it is they who are the losers- in lost wages and lost status in the communitynot  Mr Curran  who keeps on drawing his weekly pay regardless. The union's log of claims is quite exorbitant. The 2 key claims are for a 9 day fortnight, with a proportional reduction in working hours, but without any reduction in wage payments, plus a $20 a week wage increase for all non-piece workers. These claims come from an industry where the wages of boners, beef slaughtermen and mutton slaughtermen have increased by up to 140 per cent since 1970 and of other employees in the industry by more. 
This lawlessness is adding yet another major burden to already desperately hard pressed meat growers. It will lead to still more increases in the price of meat to consumers. It will add to inflationary pressures in the economy, and it will put at jeopardy the jobs of thousands of meat workers, particularly in country areas where alternative employment is difficult to find. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations and relates to the rolling strike at present being conducted by the Victorian Branch of the Australasian Meat Industry Employees Union, led by a  Mr Wally  Curran, over a 19-point log of claims which includes demands for a $20 a week wage increase and a 9-day working fortnight. I ask the Minister: Is it a fact that the union has refused to take the log of claims to arbitration, despite a publicly expressed willingness on the pan of the meatworks operators to abide by any arbitrated decision? Does this action represent a major disregard of industrial law by  Mr Curran  and his associates at great cost to his union's members, meatworks operators, meat growers, consumers and the nation at large? Does the union operate under a federal award? If the answer to the last question is in the affirmative will the Minister do all in his power to bring the present dispute to arbitration? 
-The so-called matter of public importance which the Opposition has brought forward today is fatuous. It is almost as fatuous as the contributions made to date by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren).  I only hope my friend the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  can do better. He certainly cannot do worse. The debate vividly illustrates several issues of which this House and the Australian people should be fully aware. The first is that the present Opposition is perhaps the worst Opposition this Parliament has had the misfortune to be inflicted with since Federation. Its performance in this House is pathetic. Its members are few but the paucity of its quality is unbelievable. The Opposition seems pathologically unable or unwilling to raise and to discuss objectively the real issues facing this nation. Why does it not bring to attention the industrial sabotage being wreaked on Australia through the extreme left wing of the trade union movement? It is because to a large extent it is beholden to that left wing. 
Why does the Opposition seek to obstruct at every turn the Government's efforts to bring about a wage- price pause rather than to work in a spirit of co-operation to bring it about? It is because it has a vested interest in the pause not succeeding, because it disregards the national interest in order to pursue its own petty interests and intrigues. Why does the Opposition not raise and discuss the need for responsible economic management and the best ways of achieving it? It is because it is made up of tired old men who presided over the destruction of responsibility in government economic management in 1973, 1974 and 1975, and because it is led by a man who is desperately trying to hold on to the leadership when he knows he has lost all credibility in this Parliament, in his own Party, and throughout the community. 
Equally important, the subject of this debate illustrates the vast, fundamental, philosophical difference which exists between the Australian Labor Party and the Liberal-National Country parties coalition. Far too many Australians have been hoodwinked into thinking that the differences between the 2 sides are mainly matters of degree. They are not. They are fundamental. The Labor Party is a party of big government. It is a party which believes that government knows better than the individual what is in the best interests of the individual. It is a party which says it believes in freedom of the individual. But the freedom the Labor Party is referring to is freedom of the individual to be governed by big government, the freedom of the individual to have government take decisions for him, the freedom of the individual to have his initiative and his enterprise sapped and usurped by the State. Worse though, as is evidenced by history and reinforced by the contributions by the Opposition in today's debate, the Labor Party is a centralist party. It not only believes that government knows what is best for the individual, it also believes that government centralised in Canberra knows better than State and local government what is best for the members of our community. That is the real nub of today's debate. That is why the Opposition is critical of the Fraser Government's proposals for State income taxes. The gobbledegook we have had from Opposition speakers today all stems from one basic fear- that the second and third tiers of government will get back some of the powers and responsibilities for decision making that have been eroded over 70 years of gradual, incipient centralism in Australia, a centralism which has shown its greatest acceleration during those periods when Labor has been in government in Canberra. 
For 70 years now, but particularly over the last generation, State governments of all political persuasions have complained bitterly, and in my view with considerable justification, about the erosion of their areas of responsibility. They have argued that the uniform taxation system was bad and that in conjunction with the growing use of grants under section 96 of the Constitution the truly sovereign nature of State parliaments would be destroyed. The Fraser Government, whilst believing rightly that to hand back totally to the States the power to raise income taxes would not be consistent with the Federal Government's clear responsibility for national economic policy, has a great deal of sympathy with the States' point of view on this fundamental issue. It is for this reason that in September 1975 whilst in Opposition the Liberal and National Country parties announced their federalism policy. That policy reads in part: 
The Liberal and National Country parties view as the main objective of government the creation of a society and an environment in which individuals may best fulfil themselves. 
If this is to be achieved, individuals must be free to participate fully in government and the forms of government must be decentralised to permit maximum response and involvement. Government must be brought as close as possible to the people. 
Accordingly, the Liberal and National Country parties wholly support the concept of federalism in which there are three areas of government- Federal, State and local- and in which the powers and functions are distributed to achieve continuous response and to provide an effective barrier against centralist authoritarian control. 
Federalism ... is not merely a structural concept. Its principal justification is a philosophical one. It aims to prevent dangerous concentration of power in a few hands. In so doing, it provides a guarantee of political and individual freedom. 
The statement goes on to say: 
If effective government, geared to the needs of the 1980s and beyond, is to be achieved ... if the great issues of national and local concern such as education, health, social welfare, housing and urban development are to receive maximum intelligent attention ... if all our resources including human talents and local knowledge are to be effectively harnessed ... if innovation, diversity and imaginative reforms are to be encouraged . . . then we must restructure our forms and institutions of government and our attitudes of mind to achieve co-operation not conflict, partnership and not domination. 
For true national concern to be achieved and maximised, it must be done through a partnership effort by all forms of government. Canberra should not meddle with power- hungry hands at levels where local knowledge and talents can perform so much better. 
The policy statement also said that the adoption of the policy would involve changed revenue sharing arrangements and that in this respect a 2-stage transition period would be provided. In relation to the second of those stages the policy document said: 
In order to increase the budgetary independence, responsibility and flexibility of the States, it is proposed that as soon as possible each State Government will have discretion to impose a surcharge or allow a rebate on the total personal income tax of that State. 
It is this stage 2 which the Opposition superficially appears to be attacking. But as I said earlier, what the Opposition is really attacking is the whole concept of federalism, a concept which was a major plank in the 1975 election campaign when the Liberal and National Country parties won an overwhelming  verdict of support from  the Australian people. All State governments know full well that since the Fraser Government came to office they have received a better deal from the Federal Government than they ever received before. In 1976-77 alone the States have received $90 m more in direct, untied grants than they would have received under arrangements negotiated at the time the Whitlam Government was in office. What is more, local government this year has received an increase of 75 per cent in its untied grants from the Federal Government. Not only that, but both State and local governments are now assured that in future years they will receive increases in general purpose funds from the Federal Government directly in line with the growth in the Federal Government's receipts of personal income tax. That is an assurance that State and local governments have never had before. 
The proposal to permit State governments to impose a surcharge or to allow a rebate on the total personal income tax of each State- on top of the amount of general revenue grants they will receive under the stage 1 agreement- is in total money terms a small supplement within the overall federalism policy. This is a major matter of principle because, as the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  said earlier in this debate, what it does is to give to each State the option to make its own choice as to whether it wants to spend more or less money in accordance with its own ordering of priorities. There is no compulsion or coercion in the proposal which would force State governments to impose such surcharges or to allow such rebates. Each State can make its own arrangements in this matter, in accordance with its own priorities and in its own time. 
This debate should never have been brought forward but I am glad that it has been. I am only sorry that it is not being broadcast because once again what has been shown is that the Opposition is dedicated to increasing the power of the central government at the expense of the States and local government and of the freedom of the individual. As that famous United States champion of individual freedom, Woodrow Wilson, once said: 
The history of liberty is a history of the limitations of governmental power, not the increase of it. When we resist concentration of power, we are resisting the powers of death, because concentration of power is what always precedes the destruction of human liberties. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, my grievance today concerns the nature and content of the Compensation (Commonwealth Government Employees) Act and the way in which that Act is administered. I bring the matter before the House because of my experience in my electorate of Ballaarat in attempting to assist many Commonwealth Government employees who have been affected by the Act. The problems associated with the Act have also been brought to my attention by various firms of solicitors which have engaged in legal assistance for employees seeking compensation for injuries received while in Commonwealth Government employment. In Victoria, a person employed by the Commonwealth Government is in a far worse position in relation to compensation than a fellow worker employed by the State, a private company or an individual. I have not had the opportunity to check the situation in detail in other States but my impression is that much the same situation applies there as in Victoria. 
The Commonwealth Act lacks adequate provisions for continuity and retrospectivity. Thus, if a Commonwealth employee sustains injury over a large number of years dating back beyond the 1 97 1 -73 Act, and this is frequently the case in aggravation situations such as aggravation of high blood pressure or aggravation of a back injury over a number of years of heavy work, the Commonwealth in conducting the ultimate hearing inevitably demands that the worker specify whether he is relying upon episodes prior to the 1971-73 Act. If he is, it argues that the provisions of the previous Act, which is particularly unwieldy, should apply. 
It seems absurd to me that if a worker brings a claim in 1977 the provisions of one Act should apply until 1971 and those of another Act from 1971 when the aggravation of some underlying disease has been continuous over the years. No such anomaly exists in relation to the Act applying to employees of the Victorian Government. Similarly, if a claim is brought pursuant to the State Act in 1977 for weekly payments in respect of a period of incapacity in, say, 1 967, section 2 A of the Victorian Act provides that payments should be made at the present rate- that is, for a married worker with two or more dependent children, $ 107 a week. The Commonwealth employee bringing a claim in 1977 in respect of a period of incapacity in 1967, if he were similarly married with 2 dependent children would receive $33.05 a week for that period. Again, he is at a considerable disadvantage compared with his equivalent operating under the State Act. 
The second problem facing the Commonwealth employee is an enormous one. It relates both to the nature of the legislation itself and to the way in which it is administered. This requires an examination of the very mode of operation of the making of and dealing with claims under the Commonwealth Act. Parts IV and V of the Commonwealth Act deal with this question. Basically, an injured Commonwealth employee must make a claim as soon as practicable, and it must be made within a period of 6 months from the day of injury or from the worker becoming aware of his injury. That, in itself, raises problems which I shall come to later. The worker makes his claim by giving notice in writing to the Commonwealth, and that notice must be served on the Commissioner. Ideally a determination is then made by the Commissioner. If the worker is dissatisfied with that determination he can request the Commissioner to refer the matter to the Commonwealth Compensation Tribunal or he may apply to a prescribed court for a judicial review of the determination. 
There is no provision in the Act for forcing the Commissioner to make a determination or for making application to the Commonwealth Compensation Tribunal or a prescribed court if the Commissioner fails to make a determination within any specified time. In an ideal world the system might work satisfactorily without such a provision. But, as a matter of principle it is highly undesirable that there should be no provision in the Act to guarantee a worker getting a decision, either for him or against him, within a limited time because, of course, until he gets a decision there is simply nothing that he can do. Even if he gets an unfavourable determination, he can at least apply to a prescribed court or have the matter referred to the Commonwealth Compensation Tribunal. But until some determination is made his hands are tied. In practice that involves great hardship. 
I have details of a number of recent cases in relation to which, despite frequent requests, a determination has simply not been forthcoming. In one particularly disturbing situation the following series of events took place. A claim for compensation was made in March 1972 in relation to a man with severe cardiac problems. The claim was strongly supported by the worker's treating doctors. Reports by the treating doctors were supplied to the Commissioner and to the Australian Post Office which was the employer concerned. There was then an almost endless stream of correspondence from 1 972 until July 1975. All requests of the Commissioner were answered immediately, all medical reports were supplied, and every possible step was taken by the solicitors for the worker to ensure that a determination could be rapidly made. 
Some  2lA  years after the correspondence commenced the Commissioner, for the first time, made reference to the fact that the worker had previously been refused a claim by the Repatriation Department, stating that he must appeal against that refusal. It was stated that until that was done nothing could be done in relation to the man's compensation claim, despite the fact that the man's treating doctors would not support any claim against the Repatriation Department in relation to the man's war service being connected with his cardiac complaint and despite the fact that all treating doctors related his condition directly to his employment. The important factor is that that point was raised by the Commonwealth only after some 2 1/2 years of the worker writing letters and making complaints about the failure of the Commissioner to make a determination. 
The matter finally came to a head in June 1976- more than 4 years after the initial claimwhen the solicitors for the worker wrote to me setting out full details of all developments. As a result a favourable determination was received within 14 days. Thus, because of the provisions of the Commonwealth Act and the way in which it was administered, a war veteran of some 64 yean of age, who had worked for the Australian Post Office for 22 years and who had then been unemployed for in excess of 4 years, being a man with a bad heart and with very limited life expectancy, finally received his compensation 4!4 years after initiating his claim. The man concerned should not have had to rely on my representations to receive equitable and reasonable treatment. But that was the situation. 
Another very important aspect which has general application is that there is no provision for costs in cases where there has been a favourable determination. In the case I have just outlined the Commonwealth has refused to pay costs for the 4te years work done by the solicitors for the applicant. Clearly the sort of scandalous situation that developed in relation to this man could not develop if there were some provision in the Act which was to the effect that if the Commissioner failed to make a determination within, say, 6 months the worker could automatically refer the matter to the Commonwealth Compensation Tribunal or take the matter to a prescribed court. 
The case I have outlined is not an isolated example. I can site similar examples, some of which involve time periods of up to 6 years or more between the initial lodgement of application for compensation and a determination from the Commissioner. I am not suggesting that the difficulties I have referred to represent the majority of experience with Commonwealth employees compensation claims, but they do happen too frequently not to warrant close examination by the Government. The time delays to which I have drawn attention are bad enough, but what concerns me most is the complete absence of any provision in the Act to compel the Commissioner to make a determination within a specified time. If the Commission's office simply sits on a man's application for compensation and does nothing, under the legislation, the worker's hands are tied and there is nothing he can do apart from making the sorts of threats to which I have referred. Those threats, of course, are outside the framework of the Act. It is a situation which I believe ought not to be required and ought not to be tolerated. 
My other major concern is the lack of any provision in the Act for the recovery of legal costs by an employee who receives a favourable determination after a lengthy battle with the Commissioner. There are several other matters in relation to the Commonwealth Act which I would have liked to raise had time permitted. There is, for example, the distressing difficulty that can arise for widows as a result of the Commonwealth refusing to allow its representatives to discuss settlements of Commonwealth compensation claims. There is the question of whether the discretion conferred by section 98 of the Act is too wide. In summary, both the content and the administration of the Compensation Act require searching review. Issues of equity and fair treatment are involved. These are issues to which the Commonwealth Government should pay high regard, as they relate to the Commonwealth's treatment of its own employees. I hope that the Government will take note of my remarks today and will set the necessary review in train at an early date. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
I am sorry that in this debate the Opposition has once again spent its time attacking the Government's economic policy in a destructive rather than a constructive manner. If ever there was a time in Australia's economic history when all areas of the economic spectrum needed to pull together, it is now. That applies not only to politicians; it applies equally to employers, employees and the community at large. We stand at a critical stage in our economic development. I believe that the next 9 to 12 months will determine whether the Australian economy, which is poised on a knife edge, goes forward on the basis of sustainable economic growth over the years ahead or whether between us all we make such a mess of things that the well-being of the nation and of each and every Australian citizen receives a major setback from which it will take many years to recover. I firmly believe that if we adopt a united approach to solving our problems then we will solve them, but if we are not united then those problems will loom ever so much greater and will be so much more difficult to overcome. For this reason I make a plea to the Opposition to work with the Government on economic issues, not to continue its policy of obstructionism and negativism, of painting gloom which is unreal, of sapping the confidence of the Australian people for cheap political motives and of dividing the Australian people. 
Let us look at just what are the facts in relation to the state of the economy at present. Opinions will and do differ on this, but if we look at the picture objectively there is no doubt in my mind that the economy overall is now trending in an upward direction, pursuing a moderate rate of expansion. The latest national accounts figures for the last December quarter put non-farm gross domestic product at 5.2 per cent above the level one year earlier. The increase in the 6 months to December 1976 was 3 per cent above the level in the 6 months to December 1975. Look at some of the other factors. For example, private investment in dwellings was up 20 per cent in the year ending December 1976, business investment in plant and equipment was up 18 per cent and exports were up 10 per cent. All are very important areas of growth. Present signs for our propects are distinctly encouraging in the area of private capital investment spending. For the current half-year businessmen's expectations are for growth of 8 per cent over the second half of 1976. The mining industry, in which capital spending has been in decline, shows a complete turnabout with an expected rise of 4 1 per cent. In manufacturing industry a rise of 18 per cent is expected. Looking further ahead, the minerals sector has made firm decisions to proceed with a number of significant projects. One only has to recall, for example- it is only one example- the decision by Conzinc Riotinto of Australia Ltd earlier this week to invest $600m in projects in this country in the near future. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  spoke about the problems in the construction industry. I do not deny that in some areas there are problems in the construction industry. 
-The picture of the situation that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition painted tonight was completely misleading and incorrect. As my friend, the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  reminds me, he conveniently neglected the fact that many of the problems in the construction industry over the past 18 months, and prior to that, have been due to policies of the previous Government, to which I will come back later. In the December quarter of 1976 both estimated real private investment in dwellings and private dwelling commencements were not less than 41 per cent above their low points about mid- 1975. In fact, real private dwelling investment in the latest December quarter was in total only 4 per cent short of its previous very high, abnormally high, unsustainably high peak in the September quarter of 1973. The position has been varied between the different States. New South Wales last year was experiencing perhaps greater difficulty in the construction industry than in some other States. In the December quarter total dwelling approvals in New South Wales were 29 per cent higher than a year earlier and total dwelling commencements were 26 per cent higher. These figures, in my opinion, give substantial lie to the approach that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition was making in his comments preceding mine. 
The outlook of course varies between different sectors of the economy. This is always the case. This is particularly so in the early stages of economic recovery which is the situation I believe we are in at the moment. We are witnessing at the moment to some extent part of the continuing process of adjustment which is always going on in any economy. We must ensure, first, that adjustment is in the direction that we as a community consider it to be desirable and, secondly, that the rate of adjustment is not so fast as to be excessively disruptive. That is a point which the Opposition, I think conveniently - 
If deliberately, as my colleague says, neglects. In my opinion, and in the opinion of a great many other commentators on the economic scene in Australia, it was the rate of change that occurred as a result of Labor Government policies in the 1973-75 period that really produced most of the major problems that this Government inherited when it took office. 
The gross domestic product figures I referred to earlier relate to growth of non-farm activity. The picture for the rural sector is less encouraging than for other sectors. Real output in the rural sector fell in the 6 months to December 1976 by 4.9 per cent. The problems of the rural sector, both short term and long term, are in many ways more difficult to grapple with, let alone solve, than the problems of other sectors. I believe we must recognise this and take account of it in policy formation. 
Inflation and unemployment remain major problems. However light is now showing at the end of the tunnel. The March quarter increase of 2.3 per cent in the consumer price index was encouraging even though the figure is still way above what most people regard as satisfactory. There is doubt as to how much of the inflationary impact of last year's devaluation is reflected in the March quarter figure. We may see a more significantly deflationary element in the June quarter figure. Nevertheless the 2.3 per cent figure is a favourable rather than an unfavourable indication of the way inflation is trending. 
We must also be careful not to take too much account of the consumer price index at the neglect of other price indices. The most accurate indicator of the underlying trend of inflation in the economy is the gross domestic product price deflator. In 1976 this index was well below the consumer price index. There is no reason to suggest that this is not still the case. There is no doubt at all that inflation must be further reduced. It is still astronomical by most of our historical standards. It is significantly higher than the rate in most other Western countries. It is for that reason that I unequivocally support the Government's overriding No. 1 policy objective of bringing inflation down to an acceptable figure. It is also for this reason that I reject the amendment that has been moved by the honourable member for Adelaide (  Mr Hurford  ). 
I believe that what the Opposition is proposing in its amendment will not assist the fight against inflation and will indeed exacerbate that fundamental problem. There are persons and organisations in the community which claim that the No. 1 immediate priority should be a reduction in the level of unemployment. No one accepts the present level of unemployment, however it is measured, as satisfactory. It is patently unsatisfactory. But what the advocates of tackling unemployment first neglect is that a major and sustainable reduction in the level of unemployment is simply not possible in the absence of a major reduction in the level of inflation. The experience of the Whitlam Government in 1974 and 1975 bears eloquent testimony to this fact and so does the experience of many other western countries. 
As I have said on previous occasions in the House, I think it is possible that in Australia, as is the case elsewhere, we are facing a medium to long term situation in which unemployment will continue at a higher level than we have regarded as acceptable and normal in the past. There are many reasons for this. They include the growth in technology and the extraordinary and unsustainably large wage increases in recent years. Those wage increases exceeded the rate of productivity growth in this country by 5 to 10 times. Another reason is the development of industry in low wage countries in the Asian region which is a very important matter that we will ignore at our own cost. However, I am not as pessimistic on this score as many others. But I do think that in this area we have a potentially real problem on our hands which we must put to the closest study. We must better align our education system with vocational possibilities than has been the case in recent years. We must continue the progressive manpower training policies which the present Government has introduced or modernised. On this point, I agree with the relevant part of the amendment moved by the honourable member for Adelaide. But it does no credit to the Opposition to ignore the major developments in this area which the Fraser Government has already set in train. They are developments which far outstrip in a period of 12 to 15 months anything that the Whitlam Government did during its period in office in this direction. 
Another essential ingredient in our economic recovery process is confidence. Confidence is returning to the Australian community and so it should, given the improvements in the economy which have taken place over the past 15 months. Again, it reflects no credit on the Opposition to continue with its Jeremiah approach to the present situation. 
I turn now to the question of how much the Government can do to restore Australia to economic health. Government can do much but it cannot do the whole job. lis prime responsibility must surely be to set the right environment under which growth can take place. It must provide stability and prudence in economic management. We must move away from the 'government should do it' attitude which has developed to frightening proportions in the community in recent years and which the Labor Government reinforced in a major way during its period in office. I believe that this is one of the greatest legacies this country has inherited from the Whitlam Government. It appears from the remarks of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition tonight that the Australian Labor Party has not learnt from that experience. We must learn again to ask ourselves first as individuals whether we can do it on our own. Only if we cannot should we then approach government. Government should be the last cab off the rank in many instances, not the first. Otherwise, government expenditure will continue to grow inexorably and unwisely at great cost to each and every taxpayer who already bears far too high a burden. 
The Opposition claims that the Government's economic strategy is wrong. But what are the options when we take into account the situation facing the Government when it took office in December 1975 and the length of time it takes to turn that disastrous situation around. The Opposition suggests that we should cut indirect taxes. But to have any significant effect either on prices or on the willingness of consumers to spend, the cost to revenue would be enormous. The Opposition says that the Government should increase expenditure on capital works but it does not say where, nor does it quantify the proposal. Experience during 1973-75 should have convinced us beyond all doubt that more and more government expenditure does not stimulate activity and reduce unemployment. In the period between 1974 and 1975, when government expenditure increased by 46 per cent, inflation increased fourfold and unemployment went up by 150 per cent. 
The Government already faces a major budget deficit problem. To act in the manner suggested by the honourable member for Adelaide in his amendment on behalf of the Opposition would greatly increase that deficit and the accompanying problems. It would, without any doubt, force up interest rates. It would, without any doubt, have a significant inflationary impact. Therefore I reject the amendment and urge the Government to hold firm on the overall policy course which it is pursuing. It is a course which has widespread acceptance throughout the community. It is a course which has already paid dividends in a lower rate of inflation and in a restoration of economic growth. If pursued with vigour, the benefits will grow. If abandoned now, the fruits of the past 12 months will be lost, and the prospects for the future will be bleak. 
The Government's present policy stance is very much in line with the attitude and policy stance adopted by most Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development countries in a similar situation. It is worth pointing out, because it does not seem to be recognised generally, that Australia's economic performance since the Fraser Government took office has generally been better than that of most OECD countries. Moreover, our policies are clearly in line with those being adopted by such countries, the main exception being the 3 largest OECD countries where some moderate action has been taken to stimulate economic activity. These latter countries succeeded previously in getting the rate of inflation down to a lower rate than Australia has. Therefore such action is not inappropriate in the circumstances. The fact that the 3 largest OECD countries are now in circumstances in which they feel they are able to take expansionary action highlights the fact that the 1974-75 recession left Australia generally in worse shape than most overseas countries, notably in terms of the key profit and savings ratio. Therefore we had and have further to go than most countries in making up lost ground. That is an indictment, if ever an indictment was needed, of the policies of the Labor Government. Of all the Western countries that should have suffered least from the dramatic inflationary heights due to the oil crisis of late 1973, Australia should have been in the vanguard of escaping that problem. Instead, in 1974 and 1975, we got ourselves into just about the worst economic situation of any of the OECD countries. 
I conclude where I started, by urging the Opposition to join the Government in tackling the nation's problems rather than in hindering, obstructing and attempting to confuse the community at every turn of the way. As a start, I urge the Opposition to join the Government in attempting to give the wage-price pause a chance to succeed. If the Opposition is really serious about helping the Government and the community at large to solve our economic problems, it has a great responsibility to assist. If it does not assist or attempt to assist, the community will judge it for the Party it is. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 20 April 1977: 
What was the percentage increase in (a) minimum weekly wages; (b) average weekly earnings; (c) consumer price index and (d) the gross domestic product deflator in each of the years 1970-71 to 1974-75, and in each quarter since 30 June 1975. 
-Is the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs aware that the firm M. B. John Ltd in Ballarat this week retrenched seventeen of its employees? Is he also aware that in a statement to the Press the company said that it had taken this action because of a depressed level of demand for its products, due in part to competition from imported valves from low wage countries? Is it a fact that the company applied to the Temporary Assistance Authority last year for temporary protection and that the Authority heard the application but that the details of the Authority's subsequent report have not been released? Can the Minister advise the House of what action may have been available to ensure the continued viable operation of this major Australian manufacturer of valves? 
Is the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs aware of an Australia-wide campaign being waged by various building unions to force builders of modular homes to employ their workers under an award which relates to on site builders rather than the awards applicable to employees in a factory situation as is the case with employees building modular homes? Is he aware that as part of this campaign the Electrical Trades Union is engaging in a secondary boycott through inducing its members employed by State electricity authorities not to connect power to newly constructed modular homes? Is the Minister aware also that in the City of Ballarat alone some 300 jobs are at stake as a result of these actions and that throughout Australia as a whole the number of jobs at risk runs into thousands, particularly in nonmetropolitan areas? Is this secondary boycott action the type which the recent changes made to the Trade Practices Act in this House are designed to cover? If so, would the Minister advise the modular home companies concerned to take the necessary legal action in the interests of the jobs of thousands of employees throughout Australia? 
-Is the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations aware of the dislocation being caused to many industries in Victoria as a result of industrial disputes and of the direct and indirect employment opportunities being lost as a result of these disputes? Can the Minister give the House any precise details as to the current level of these disputes? 
-As a member of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence I am very pleased to be able to say a few words tonight concerning the issues raised by that Committee's report. Like the previous  speaker,  I cannot claim any great credit for my contribution to the report as I was not a member of the sub-committee which did most of the work on it. But I should like to take this opportunity to congratulate the  Chairman  of the subcommittee, the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley),  and his colleagues on the work that they did. I think it is an excellent report and also a very important report. 
We in Australia often think of the Middle East as an area of the World that is not of great concern to us in any direct sense. I think many Australians have little knowledge of the Middle East. Many of us tend to regard the Middle East as an homogeneous group of countries and people. Of course, any one who has been to that part of the world knows that that is not so. There is a very great diversity of race, culture and religion in the areas and the peoples of the Middle East. One of the important things that I think this report has done has been to highlight this diversity, not only so far as the people are concerned, but also in the resources and the ways of life and thinking of the people. I think this report is important from our point of view because it does bring home to Australians information concerning the Middle East which is of relevance to Australia and which, perhaps, we often neglect to understand and to comprehend. 
I want tonight to talk more about the trade and economic issues associated with the report and their relevance to Australia. Other speakers have concentrated mainly on other issues. They have raised several points which I think are of critical importance to us as an important member of the international community and as a nation which is striving with other nations to produce a more just and more peaceful world. The report brings out that we must do more to assist in the work of moving towards a permanent and peaceful settlement in the region based on the recognition of Israel 's right to exist in security, on the encouragement of Arab initiatives to settle the displaced Palestinians and also on the efforts of President Carter and other world leaders at the present time. It is an immense problem but we will be abrogating our responsibility as an important member of the international community if we do not play our part. 
The Middle East in terms of resources is a very diversified area. We often think that because of the amount of oil produced there and the importance of oil in the international community the Middle East as a whole is a very wealthy area. Of course, that is not so. There is enormous wealth in certain countries of the region but there is also enormous poverty in other areas of the region, particularly those areas which have a scarcity of physical resources including oil. Many of the Middle East countries have major problems of development. Many of them lack adequate water. Anyone who has flown over or travelled through some of the desert areas in the region know just what an immense restraint the lack of water is placing on development. Even a wealthy country such as Saudi Arabia has faced and is still facing major problems in this area. The average rainfall in Saudi Arabia is something like two inches a year and the watertable is a non.replenishable watertable so there is a great deal of difficulty in development in an area like Saudi Arabia despite its oil resources and financial wealth if the water supply problem cannot be solved. There is a lack of skills in the work force in many countries in the region. Saudi Arabia is a good example. 
In these difficulties with development I believe lies a great deal of scope for mutual and beneficial trade and economic co-operation between Australia and the countries of the Middle East. There is great scope for increased trade with those countries. In recent years we have increased our trade with those countries on a two-way basis but the potential for trade in that area is still very great indeed, particularly in respect of our agricultural commodities. I would like publicly to pay a tribute to the work of the Australian Department of Foreign Affairs and the Australian Trade Commission in several of the countries in the Middle East. Officers there have done a great deal in the last half dozen years to increase our knowledge of trading opportunities with those countries and those initiatives are now starting to pay dividends. 
However, there is a long way further to go and a much greater opportunity exists for us to develop in the area not just in terms of trade but also in terms of technology. There is a lack of technology and skills in dry land farming techniques in many of these countries. We in Australia because of our geography and resource requirements have developed perhaps the most sophisticated knowledge of skills in dry land farming of any country and my understanding from a visit to this area some time ago was that there are great opportunities for us to export our technology and our skilled personnel to assist the development of dry land farming in the Middle 
East. There is a great wish among those countries that we do this, so there is considerable scope for co-operation. There is also great scope for increased investment in Australia from some of the countries in the region, particularly those which have the oil resources which have produced considerable amounts of financial wealth. 
Surprisingly there is not as much financial wealth as was predicted four or five years ago when the oil crisis arose late in 1973 as a result of the quadrupling of crude oil prices. Although at that time there was a prediction that the oil wealth would lead to a huge surplus of financial reserves that would be disruptive of the international monetary system and would provide great scope for investment of funds in Australia and in other countries around the world, that has not as yet happened. This is so for a variety of reasons but largely because of considerable cooperation between the international financial community and the International Monetary Fund to ensure that the sudden upsurge in wealth in the oil producing countries was distributed and disbursed throughout the world in a way that was not destructive of financial markets. That is one of the great achievements of the last three or four years in terms of international financial co-operation, but the scope does exist for long term productive investment of Middle East reserves in Australia and that is something that we need to encourage and to look at much more closely. The attitude of successive Australian governments over the last three or four years has perhaps not been fully conducive to the encouragement of foreign investment in Australia as I and some others would have liked and I hope that this is a problem which we will sort out in the not too distant future because there is no doubt that our nation will require large and continuing amounts of foreign investment for many years to come if we are to develop our potential for economic growth and if we are to meet the needs and aspirations of the people in our community. 
Middle East oil is of the most direct importance to us. It is important for two reasons. One reason which perhaps is more important than the other is the dependence of other Western countries on Middle East oil. Possibly Japan is the classic example but many other nations in the Western world are also very heavily dependent on Middle East oil. We saw as a result of the oil crisis in late 1 973 just what disruption such price increases as occurred then and subsequently and the rapidity of such increases can be caused to the economies of major Western countries. In many respects the Western world countries almost without exception are living through a period of considerable financial and economic difficulty with lower than optimum growth rates, higher than normal long term unemployment and the like and I think that much of that difficulty can be slated home to the dramatic effects on them of the Middle East oil crisis of 1973 and subsequently. That in turn has had a major effect on the Australian economy by slowing down the economies of our trading partners and it is inevitable that that has an effect on our rate of growth. 
The second reason that Middle East oil is of such critical importance to us is that, although we have been fortunate in recent years with our oil reserves providing us with 70 per cent or thereabouts self-sufficiency in oil, the pattern has been very patchy. Between 93 per cent and 95 per cent of our motor spirit requirements have been met from our own resources over the past two or three years but only 20 per cent of our fuel oil has come from this source. Those proportions are going to decline considerably between now and the mid 1980s unless we find a great deal more oil than is indicated at the moment in this country. That spells out two considerations. The first is to highlight the importance of last night's Budget decision to increase progressively the price of Australian crude over a number of years up to import parity because we must expand our oil exploration program and if possible find more oil. Perhaps the prospects are not highly encouraging but even if they are it is inevitable that for the next decade or more we will have a great and increasing reliance on the oil reserves of Middle East countries. It also highlights the need for us to put more effort into developing an energy budget and conserving our oil and other energy resources and to strive even more heavily than we have in the past for the development of alternative energy sources. For all these reasons, this report of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence dealing with the Middle East is a very important report. It is a timely report. I hope that it will be a widely read report. 
-This is the first time that I have spoken in this House on the subject of uranium. However, I had the pleasure of participating in a forum on this subject held at the Melbourne State College on 20 July. Of course, that was before the announcement of the Government's decisions in relation to the mining and export of Australia's uranium. I mention the Melbourne State College forum because it was simply one of a great many debates that have taken place on this subject over many years. It is simply not true to assert, as our political opponents and some others do, that consideration of the public discussion on uranium is new and that the subject has not been sufficiently talked out or examined to enable governments to be in a position to make responsible decisions in relation to the development of Australia's uranium reserves. 
Tonight 's debate is the third in this chamber in less than 12 months. It is interesting to note that on the second occasion we actually ran out of speakers on the Opposition side. The important thing to note is that these debates are taking place more than a generation after the first use of nuclear energy, regrettably a use which was for the purpose of war and killing. These debates are taking place also more than two decades after nuclear energy was first used commercially for the peaceful purpose of electricity generation and more than two decades after Australian uranium was first mined and exported. Over that lengthy period of time there has been a great and continuing debate throughout many countries about the issue of nuclear power. 
I repeat that it simply is not true to suggest that the debate is new and in its early stages, although the debate in Australia did get off to a somewhat later start than in most other countries. But it was well under way prior to 1974 and 1975. It is very interesting to note, however, that the debate was temporarily silenced in 1974 and 1975 when the Whitlam Government signed an apparently legally binding agreement with the Ranger partners to permit the mining and export of uranium. At the time the then Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  said: 
The Labor Government believes that the Ranger project will be a major export earner and it - 
He was referring to the Labor Government- will be working to bring this mining program to fruition. 
Let me state some of the other facts in relation to Labor's attitude towards this matter when in office. In October 1974 the late Labor Minister for Minerals and Energy,  Mr Connor,  said that the Australian Labor Party would: . . . ensure that our major trading partners, Japan, Italy and West Germany, obtain an equitable share of the uranium we have for export. 
In March 1975 the then  Deputy  Prime Minister, the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr Cairns),  issued a joint statement with Iran, in which it was stated: 
Iran would be given access to supplies of uranium from Australia under favourable conditions. 
In June 1975 the present Labor shadow Minister for Minerals and Energy, the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating),  said: 
Japan is interested in moving into nuclear power and enriched fuel. We are prepared to give the Japanese any amount of fuel that they need ... the only thing is that we would like to do the enriching. Instead of sending just yellowcake at bargain-basement prices, we want to get the profit that comes from enrichment. 
At the Australian Labor Party Conference in Terrigal in February 1975 the late  Mr Rex  Connor received unanimous approval to go ahead with uranium mining and also to build a uranium enrichment plant. The Conference totally rejected a motion to halt uranium development for 12 months while a full scale government inquiry into nuclear technology was conducted. In October 1975 the Labor Minister for Aboriginal Affairs stated: . . . international assurances have been provided by Ministers - 
He was referring to Labor Ministers- that Australia will meet the uranium requirements of our major trading partners which could amount to 100,000 tons of uranium. 
So much for the discussion and contribution we have heard from Opposition speakers in this and preceding debates on the morality of their attitude towards the subject. 
It is interesting to note also that the two leaders of the Labor Party,  Mr Whitlam  and  Mr 
Hawke, have both expressed views contrary to the recent resolution of the Labor Party Conference which after debating the issue in 45 minutes flat developed a policy, determined by the left wing of the Party, which is entirely the opposite of Labor's policy while in government less than two years ago. The recent Australian Council of Trade Unions executive decision on uranium also shows how hopelessly divided the Labor movement is over the issue. If it were not so serious, the sight of  Mr Hawke  and the Leader of the Opposition trying to straddle half a dozen horses which are all galloping in different directions at the one time would be hilarious. But it is not hilarious; it is extremely serious, because it shows just how much the leadership of the Labor movement is under the influence of the forces on the Left, and not just in relation to uranium. 
Over the past two decades there has been a dramatic development in nuclear technology. There also has been a major development in the thinking of governments around the world on two counts, the first of which is the need to develop the maximum possible safety and security measures and safeguards. The environmentalists and the conservationists have had a very important and, I believe, useful role to play in this regard. Secondly, more and more governments over the whole spectrum of political persuasions have come to the decision that the development of nuclear energy for peaceful purposesthat means essentially the generation of electricity- is essential if the world's energy requirements in the 1980s, the 1990s and beyond are to be met without hardship, deprivation and starvation to many millions of people irrespective of race, colour or creed. As a result, 34 countries now either already have or are about to have 500 nuclear power units, with a total electricity production capacity 20 times that of Australia's capacity. Many of these countries already rely significantly on nuclear power for their electricity generation- for example, Switzerland, 1 8 to 20 per cent; West Germany, 1 5 per cent; Sweden, 13 per cent; Britain 10 per cent; the United States, 9 per cent; and Japan, 8 per cent. 
Therefore, the nuclear powered electricity generation industry is already a well established industry in many countries. It is already an accomplished fact of life. There is no way in the world that this situation will change in our lifetime or beyond, regardless of the decisions Australia may have made in respect of the development of its uranium reserves. It is against this background, I believe, that the debate and decision-taking in Australia should proceed, because it would be unrealistic for the position to be otherwise. The decisions which the Government has taken are based in essence on the answers to the following questions: Firstly, is there a net overall benefit or loss to Australia and its people if we develop our uranium reserves? Secondly, do our decisions produce a net benefit or loss to the rest of the world? There is little doubt in my mind that the answer to both questions is that there is a net benefit. We should bear in mind that the decisions which the Government has taken relate simply to the mining and export of uranium. At the moment we are not talking about acquiring our own nuclear reactors and using nuclear power to generate our own electricity, although I believe that in time we may well need to give and should give careful consideration to these aspects. They are not at issue at present. 
I would like to look now at our own selfinterest. It is pretty well universally accepted now that the actual mining of uranium, particularly by the open cut method, as much of ours will be, does not pose any real health hazard to the miners. Fully adequate safety measures have been devised and adopted. The same applies to milling. It is also generally accepted that waste disposal at the mining / milling stage presents no threat and is a smaller problem than that involved in the disposal of many other waste products. Similarly, the physical act of exporting yellowcake does not impose any unusual health hazards. It is accepted that the mining and milling of uranium, particularly given the location of the main known deposits, pose major issues to be resolved in relation to the physical environment and in relation to the Aborigines in the areas concerned. The Ranger and Koongarra deposits, for example, lie close to the foot of the Mount Brockman escarpment- a particularly beautiful area and an area of extreme significance to many of the Aboriginal local descent groups in the region. Development of these deposits therefore must be handled with extreme care and sensitivity, not only in relation to the physical environment but, more importantly, in relation to the social and cultural wellbeing of the up to 800 Aborigines who are involved. On both these counts I believe that the Government has acted with a high degree of responsibility in the decisions it has taken. 
There is no doubt in my mind that on the question of economics there will be very considerable benefit to Australia from the mining and export of uranium. The Fox report put the likely increase in Australia's gross domestic product at a maximum of 0.3 per cent. That in itself is not insignificant at the margin. However, other estimates by well respected economists are that the Commission understated the economic benefits. I share that view. Some opponents of uranium development have pointed to the so-called Gregory thesis to support their arguments. I believe this to be a fallacious use of  Dr Gregory's  line of argument; and so, I understand, does he. To put a brake on mineral development makes no more economic sense than trying to stop the development of the steam engine, the motor car, the aeroplane or television would have made. 
In the 1990s exports of Australian uranium will be likely to contribute one-half of the increase in Australia's total exports during this period. This will have a significant impact on our ability to sustain an acceptable level of economic growth necessary to cater for the multitude of demands from the Australian community for improved living standards, particularly for those most in need in our community. Uranium exports will make a useful contribution to our export income, I would hope, before the 1990s. The importance of the need for increased exports cannot be overstated. I will give only one reason. There are others. It has been estimated that between now and 1995 Australia's oil import requirement could increase fourfold. That alone would impose immense strain on our balance of payments if we did not do all in our power to increase our export income. The mining and treatment of uranium in the Northern Territory will give tremendous impetus to the economy of the Territory. It will reduce the Territory's financial dependence on the rest of Australia and will provide significant direct and indirect employment opportunities for the people of the Territory, including the Aborigines. 
There are many things that I could say and should say in a debate such as this, and there are many things that I will have to omit because of the limited time at my disposal. I think that in the end the issues of safeguards, waste disposal and proliferation are the most important ones. There is no disagreement at all, as I understand it, about the need for the most stringent safeguards possible. Australia has had and will continue to have detailed involvement in working towards the strengthening of existing safeguards, although if we were to refuse to export our uranium we very likely would be left out in the cold on these discussions and so would lose our ability to play a constructive role in this major area. Australia's safeguards policy is the most stringent yet adopted by any country, including Canada. It is more stringent than that suggested by the Fox Commission and far stronger than that proposed by the Leader of the Opposition earlier this year. That does not make the safeguards perfect or foolproof, but if Australia co-operates with other uranium producers and consumers there is every reason to believe that international safeguards will continue to strengthen even further. 
The risk of proliferation of nuclear weapons appears to be the major risk in the future development of nuclear power. The answer to this surely lies in the fostering of a peaceful international climate and in co-operation between all parties to limit proliferation. Adequate safeguards are of prime importance. Australia will do nothing to halt proliferation if it refuses to export its uranium. I would argue quite the contrary. I sincerely believe that we in Australia do not have the right to sit in judgment on the rest of the world. That is precisely what we would be doing if we were to deny the supply of uranium for peaceful purposes to customer countries which have expressed both a wish and a need for our uranium resources- resources which in energy content are of the same order as the presently known oil reserves of Saudi Arabiaand which received a major blow from the 1973 oil crises, a repetition of which they are understandably at very great pains to avoid. 
-Is the Prime Minister aware that the British Trades Union Congress recently adopted by a large majority a motion calling for a 12-month interval between pay increases? Can the Prime Minister inform the House whether the Government has consistently argued before the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission for a longer than three month period between national wage case hearings? Finally, does he have any grounds for expecting that the Australian Council of Trade Unions will adopt the same responsible attitude as has the British Trades Union Congress towards this matter in the interests of all Australians? 
-For most of us, the Budget Debate is the one time of the year when members can speak in this chamber about virtually anything they like related to government and Parliament. Such is the pervasiveness of the Budget that it touches almost all aspects of our daily lives. I find it a pity that more members do not use this opportunity to express to the nation their views on the totality of things pertaining to the nation. Rather, they concentrate on scoring points off each other, and on dealing with the smaller issues of detail contained in the Budget Papers. 
Perhaps that is politics. Equally, however, perhaps that is why, regrettably, politics and politicians are not held in the regard that I beeve they need to be held in if Australia is to continue to flourish as a Parliamentary democracy, if Australians are going to regain confidence in themselves, if we are going to restore the feeling of national pride that we used to have but which, to our great condemnation and to our ultimate disaster, we appear to have lost. I can only pray that we will turn the tide on these fundamental precepts before too long. We can do so, and we can do so very easily, all we need is the will- the recognition that either we stand together or we will fall together. 
That is why I regret that the Opposition during this Budget debate- indeed, during the life of this Parliament- has been negative and obstructionist. It has looked back in surly anger rather than forward and constructively. The contributions to this debate by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  and his two economic tutors- the honourable members for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  and for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  were the worst I have ever heard from any three top parliamentary leaders from any party in my whole experience. Not one of them showed any awareness of the real facts of our present economic situation and the background to it. Not one of them looked forward to the future. Not one of them offered any positive suggestion as to how we could move to a better Australia. Most sadly of all, not one of them showed any appreciation for the mood, and the aspirations, of the Australian people. 
The best they could do collectively was to suggest more and more government spendingmore and more of the same old medicine with which they bedevilled Australia between 1973 and 1975, medicine which led to a fourfold increase in inflation, to the loss of countless thousands of jobs in productive activity, to a 150 per cent increase in unemployment in 18 months alone, to a massive loss of consumer and investor confidence, to the near destruction of the manufacturing and rural sectors, to a legacy of other catastrophes which brought this nation and its people to their knees. Not once did these giants of the so called alternative government make a constructive suggestion. Not once did they acknowledge what the Fraser Government has achieved in the short space of 21 months of government. Not once did they make any recognition of the underlying strength of this Budget as a major cornerstone in the continuing recovery of the Australian economy- a recovery which is underway and which promises to make 1978 a better year for all Australians. 
What are the achievements of this Government? Let me  list just a few  of them, because today I want to look forward rather than backward. Some of the achievements are worth restating because unfortunately not enough people seem to be aware of them. The overriding achievement has been the reduction in inflation. The Fraser Government won office in 1975 for many reasons, but none more important than for its pledge to attach No. 1 priority to this issue. In the 2 1 months since this Government took office, the underlying rate of inflation in Australia has fallen by more than 40 per cent- from 16.7 per cent to approximately 10 per cent. Indicators published m the past few days indeed suggest that we are now back to single digit inflation. 
Inflation is still too high. But I assert without any fear of contradiction that had the Fraser Government not won office in December 1975 the present rate of inflation under a Whitlam government would now have been in excess of 20 per cent. Just think what that would have done to the economic and social fibre of this country. Not only would inflation have skyrocketed, so also would have unemployment. Unemployment has increased since the present Government came into office. The increase has been about 1 per cent of the work force- or, to put it in another way, there has been approximately a 25 per cent increase in the number of persons unemployed. In the last 1 8 months of the Whitlam Government unemployment increased by 150 per cent. 
-By 150 per cent. Had that Government stayed in office unemployment could by now have reached a level of some 8 per cent of the work force, compared with the present figure of some  5  per cent. In the 21 months since the Fraser Government won office, there has been positive growth in the economygrowth which is of fundamental importance if the living standards of Australians are to be improved in line with the aspirations of Australians. By contrast, in the last 18 months of the Labor Government real output in Australia fell by some 5 per cent. So by most tests the Government's comparative overall economic record has been good since it assumed office. 
Let us now have a brief look at what the Fraser Government has done for people. For the low income earner with a large family, the Government's family allowance system has provided the greatest boost for very many years. For the pensioner, the Government's decision to tie pension increases automatically to increases in the cost of living has provided security to pensioners for the first time in our history. 
For the unemployed, there has been a major increase in retraining and other schemes to better equip these persons for re-entry to the work force. Unemployment is a major problem. It is not a problem that will go away quickly or easily, even when the overall rate of economic recovery picks up. It must not be turned into a political football the way the Labor Party is attempting. It is much too serious for that. Human life and human dignity are at stake. The problem must be analysed logically yet compassionately, and logical yet compassionate solutions found. That requires co-operation and constructive effort on all sides- not the negative obstructionism and politicking in which the Opposition is engaging. 
We must follow the lead of the present Government and take a fresh look at labour market policies, giving much more emphasis than in the past to breaking down the underlying structural barriers that are such an important reason for much of our present unemployment, particularly amongst the unskilled and the young. We must make sure that young students are being adequately equipped with such basic tools as the ability to read and write and spell adequatelytools which many school leavers today appear to lack. We must ensure that different forms of education pay full regard to future vocational prospects and that we as a community obtain the best value we can for the money- our money as taxpayers- spent on education. 
What else has the Government done for people? For the aged, it has greatly increased the amount of accommodation being built. For handicapped children, it has made major improvements in the allowances paid to their parents or guardians. For the farmer, it has restored some of the necessary assistance that was taken away by the Whitlam Government- and taken away at a time when that Government was hellbent on destroying rural producers through its reckless approach to economic management and its complete disregard for the inflationary consequences of its actions. For the farmer also, the introduction of income equalisation deposits and the new tax averaging arrangements will prove of major benefit, in both the short and the longer terms. On top of that there have been the Government's actions in restructuring the Australian Meat Board, in introducing major changes designed to improve the situation in the dairy industry, in increasing the floor price for wool, in the impending establishment of a rural bank, and many more. 
For all income earning Australians, the introduction of tax indexation last year, and the taxation reforms announced in this Budget have already produced, so far as indexation is concerned, and will produce, so far as the new rate scales are concerned, major income tax relief. Every Australian personal income taxpayer received a cut in taxation on 1 July this year. Every Australian personal income taxpayer will receive another cut in taxation on 1 February next, a still further cut on 1 July 1978, and annual cuts, depending on the rate of inflation, every year thereafter. Despite some misunderstandings about the Government's initial presentation of these taxation reduction measures and despite what the Opposition may say, it is a fact that these measures represent major reductions in taxation. 'As a package, they represent the most far-reaching beneficial changes to our personal income tax system in our historybeneficial to each and every personal income taxpayer in Australia. 
Time does not permit me to catalogue further the impressive list of the Fraser Government's achievements. Many of them were introduced before the 1977 Budget. Some were introduced in the Budget. Others have been introduced since. A Budget, no matter how important it may be, is only one of a host of complex economic decisions that are taken in the course of a year. We must therefore be careful not to get the Budget out of perspective. That said, however, a Budget does tend to set the basic fiscal and monetary framework for the economy in the year ahead, at least in those areas of policy for which government has responsibility. The framework provided by the 1977 Budget is sound. It is responsible. It is forward looking and innovatory. 
The deficit for 1977-78 has been reduced to some $500m below last year's outturn. That will be anti-inflationary. Equally important, though, it should provide the scope for a downward movement in interest rates as the year progresses, and therefore an easing of the crippling interest and repayment burden facing thousands of individuals and companies, particularly small businesses. This in turn should have an expansionary effect on economic activity. But the Government will need to be extremely careful in its interest rate policy. Too large an interest rate reduction too quickly could have damaging effects on money markets. It also could have undesirable consequences for the exchange rate for the Australian dollar; and it could cause a resurgence of inflation. But, properly managed, I am firmly convinced that a sustainable reduction in interest rates during 1977-78 is not only possible but also highly desirable. 
The forecasts for growth of gross domestic product, and for unemployment, contained in the Budget documents are not particularly cheerful- a 2 per cent year-on-year growth in real GDP, and little or no change in unemployment. Their implications for productivity are also worrying. One cannot lightly dismiss sophisticated econometric forecasts. On the other hand, these forecasts do not take into account nonquantifiable factors such as consumer or investor psychology. The significance of these is, of course, as much a matter of subjective judgment as anything else. My own subjective judgment is that the forecasts may well turn out to be pessimistic, at least so far as real GDP growth is concerned. Other commentators, including W. D. Scott and Co. Pty Ltd, Philip Shrapnel and Co. Pty Ltd and the Commercial Bank of Australia, for example, appear to share this view. 
Above all else, the Government will need to be light on its feet in its economic management during 1977-78. This applies particularly to monetary policy. The growth in money supply may well need to exceed the 8 per cent to 10 per cent targeted for in the Budget Speech. The Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  has indicated clearly that he is very well aware of this. But although it will need to be light on its feet, there are several objectives that the Government will move away from only at great risk to its basic strategy. The main on is, of course, maintenance of the exchange rate at about its existing level. Any significant devaluation of the dollar would be a major blow to confidence and a major blow to the fight against inflation. 
In that context the recent remarks of the honourable member for Oxley, speculating about the future of the dollar, should be deplored by all thinking members on both sides of the House. Coming from the Opposition's main economic spokesman, I find them the height of irresponsibility. If we stay on the broad course now charted by the Government, we not only will see continuing improvement in the economy over 1977-78 but also will have continued to lay the foundations for steady and sustainable economic growth into the 1980s. 
It is to this latter issue that I want to turn in the time remaining to me. We in Australia, as in many other countries of the Western world, appear to be suffering some crisis of confidencenot only in our governments but also in ourselves as individuals. Why is there a crisis of confidence in government- not the Government, but the institution of government itself? The reasons obviously are many and varied. But the reason I place top of my list is that we as individuals over many years now have come to rely on government far too much, in a way which has made it quite impossible for any government to live up to community expectations. We have tended to say to ourselves that if we want something we will run along to government first, rather than consider what we might be able to do to help ourselves. There must be a limit to what we ask government to do for us. Government can do only so much. It has a basic responsibility to determine the parameters within which our economy and our community function. It has a basic responsibility to assist those in our community who are most in need. It also has a responsibility to give a lead to community thinking and community attitudes. It has a responsibility to reflect and to react to community attitudes, if in fact these can be determined. But at the end of the day it is our actions and our attitudes, as individuals, which will determine how Australia develops economically, socially and morally. 
We need a fresh attitude on mind in this country. We need to regenerate our confidence. We need to be less self seeking and to think more of others. We need to get away from confrontation and back to co-operation. But we can do this only if all sections of our community are genuinely prepared to co-operate. Without real sincerity in this regard, attempts at co-operation will lead only to appeasement and, to a victory for industrial or economic muscle over the less organised and weaker sections of the community. I believe that as a community we need to be prepared to see government play a smaller role in the total scheme of things. We need to encourage political parties to that end. The Australian Labor Party, however, is fundamentally opposed to this concept. It is unashamedly- this is publicly admitted and accepted- a party of big government. It believes that government knows better than the people what is best for those people. It believes that it can spend people's money more effectively and more wisely than the people themselves. Let us never forget this basic fact. There is a major difference between the political philosophies of the two major parties on this issue. 
The Fraser Government has taken a major lead in restoring incentive to Australians. It has reformed the taxation system so as to leave more income in the hands of people and to allow them to choose how they spend this income. It has tailored health and social welfare policies so that they cater for the needy rather than for those who can more easily provide for themselves. There is more that it needs to do. It must cut down on the regulations and restrictions on legitimate business activity which have grown up over the years. It must recognise more the differences between big business and small business, and take account of these in its policies, particularly in relation to the availability of finance for small businesses. 
It must encourage a wage fixing system which pays full regard to the need to reward productivity, effort and scarce skills- rather than a system m which wages are determined without regard for these factors, which is broadly the situation under wage indexation. It must encourage progressive reform of the trade union movement. Here I have in mind particularly the need for the development of industry unions rather than the fragmented union structure we now have. It must elevate decentralisation to the level of a major national objective. The Government has made a small, but highly significant, step in this direction in the Budget by allocating $6m for general decentralisation purposes. This is the first time to my knowledge that any Federal government has taken such a step. I hope it is a signal that the Government recognises the fundamental importance of greater decentralisation in our vast continent. The Government has moved courageously and responsibly in many of these areas. It has been the most reformist government in a generation. Many of my remarks today have been philosophical. Some might say they have been naive. Others might say that they have been overly idealistic. 
I make no apology for this, either to the House, to listeners around the nation or to readers of  Hansard. 
Or the honourable member for Hindmarsh. If we in this House lose sight of the need to see the wood, to set aside the trees from time to time and to look forward rather than backwards, we do not deserve to be the elected representatives of the people. I trust that we in this Parliament on whatever side of the political spectrum we may be will never justify such a judgment. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 18 August 1977: 
Does he recognise the need to proceed with speed in the establishment of a National Rural Bank. 
When will the details relating to the nature and structure of the Bank be announced. 
Will the Government take steps to ensure that the Bank is established as soon as practicable. 
Will it be practicable to establish the Bank within the next 6 months. 
Could I receive an answer to this question by 8 September 1977. 
I fully support the motion moved today by my colleague the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  and so ably seconded by my colleague the honourable member for Berowra  (Dr Edwards).  It is certainly a much more relevant and urgent motion than the matter of public importance that was originally proposed by the Opposition. Nowadays urgency debates in this House are not what they used to be. 
I rose to support the motion. In doing so I think that the honourable member for Denison and other speakers from this side of the House have shown today to the House and to listeners of this debate the hypocrisy of what the Labor Party in opposition has been trying to achieve in the two years since it lost the government benches. Over the last two years the Labor Party has thought that it can hoodwink the Australian people and con them against all logical reason into believing that the Fraser Government has not brought back responsible government to this nation after three years of catastrophic mismanagement under Labor. But the Australian people have not been conned. They know, just as the Opposition knows in its own heart, that this Government has got Australia back onto a sound footing and that the economy has already started on an upward path of renewed growth and on a return to prosperity that is essential if the needs and aspirations of all Australians are to be fulfilled. 
Certainly we still face problems. Certainly the way ahead will not be all plain sailing but there is now light at the end of the tunnel, a light which was virtually wiped out in November 1975 because of the economic holocaust of the Whitlam years, years which produced a four-fold increase m inflation, a three-fold increase in unemployment, a complete halt to economic growth and prosperity for all Australians, and a great fear throughout the land as to just where our nation was heading. It is undeniable that there is still some lack of confidence about the future felt by many Australians, but the fear of the Whitlam years is gone and confidence is returning- and for good reason. Inflation has been reduced by 40 per cent since the Fraser Government took office. Also, the staggering rates of increase in unemployment which occurred under Labor have been cut back dramatically. Interest rates have stabilised and, again through sound economic management, the scene has been set for a downward movement in rates over the course of the year ahead as the level of inflation continues to ease. 
All these facts-they are facts, despite the wild, unsubstantiated, scaremongering assertions of the Opposition spokesmen- support the view, which is reflected by most forecasters including the Reserve Bank of Australia, that 1978 will see a major improvement in the Australian economy, firmly rooted in the return to underlying economic stability, for which the Fraser Government deserves the highest praise. The Government's impressive economic achievements in less than two short years have already been well outlined by my colleagues, and I W1 not repeat them. I intend to concentrate my remarks today on the attitude that has been adopted in recent times by the Opposition's economic spokesmen. We have not heard much of the shadow Treasurer, the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford).  He has been remarkably quiet. The running seems to have been left to the shadow Minister for Defence who is also the socalled spokesman for economic matters, the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden).  It is sad to see the honourable member for Oxley performing, both inside and outside this Parliament, in the way in which he has will over the last year or more. 
The honourable member for Oxley was regarded by many as being not too bad a Treasurer, although he was Treasurer for only some five months. Of course, that is too short a time in which to judge. But he was thought to be a responsible member of the then Government. In the past year or more the honourable member for Oxley has lost all vestige of responsibility, all vestige of credibility. This is sad to see because apparently the honourable gentleman is the heir apparent to the leadership of the Parliamentary Labor Party- either earlier of later. It is about time the Parliamentary Labor Party had a responsible and credible leader. It does not have one in its present leader or in its putative leader, and that is not good for parliamentary democracy. I dismiss the remarks today by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam).  Even Blind Freddie knows that the honourable gentleman knows nothing about economics or economic management.  His  term of office as Prime Minister of this country between 1973 and 1975 bears very eloquent testimony to that. He proved it once again today. 
But the honourable member for Oxley should know better because he was the Treasurer, he has had training in economics and he claims to be an economic spokesman.  His  statements on the economy in the past year have been pathetic. He has talked nothing but gloom. He has attempted to talk the economy down. He attempted, with some success, in November last year to achieve a movement in the exchange rate which many people judged was not in the best interests of this country.  His  approach on economic matters has been the height of irresponsibility. He has deliberately fostered speculation against the Australian dollar, and he stands condemned for it. As the  Australian  newspaper commented in recent days: 

 Mr Bill Hayden seems to find it hard to learn the difference between valid political statements on the conduct of the Australian economy and the kind of misstated exaggeration which may be common currency in other areas of politics, but which is suicidal when applied to the economic area. It is the difference between fair comment and the scare tactic. 
It continues: 

 Mr Hayden may imagine that he can gain some political advantage from the gloom he expresses, but seems unaware that if he does so it is at the expense of the nation's economic health. 
In my opinion, Opposition spokesmen on economic matters have a responsibility to speak in a manner which is not deliberately damaging to the Australian economy. Just because honourable members opposite are not in office does not mean that they cannot act in a responsible manner in discussing and working towards a solution to the problems that face this nation. To their dying shame, nothing that honourable members opposite have done m the past 12 months goes anywhere at all towards supporting the view that ought to be held, namely that they have a sensible and responsible wish to see the economy improve. The honourable member for Oxley, the Opposition and the Australian people know that the Australian economy is improving. But the honourable member cannot afford to admit it, apparently.  His  reasons appear to be purely political. If economic spokesmen who claim to be responsible economic spokesmen cannot divorce politics from responsibility then they ought not to be economic spokesmen. 
The honourable member for Oxley knows full well that the Australian dollar is one of the soundest currencies in the world and that the Australian balance of payments is in a very sound position. The Opposition knows perfectly well that we are in Australia in what is traditionally a seasonally weak period from the point of view of balance of payments and that the balance of payments, on normal seasonal grounds, will continue to improve from towards the end of this year. For the Leader of the Opposition to criticise the Government's borrowing program, as he did today, and to attempt to compare it with what his Government attempted to do in 1975 is sheer hypocrisy. He knows as well as does anyone else in this country that the borrowing program that has  been  arranged by the Government in the last few days was arranged through responsible international financial channels, through international financial houses that have the highest repute in the world, with which we have had a traditional relationship for many years and from which we have been a trusted borrower. 
Let us contrast that with the situation in 1975 when the Government of the day attempted not only to fool and to mislead the Australian people as to the nature of the borrowings that were proposed at that time but also to obtain those borrowings through financial intermediaries who had no credibility, no responsibility and no authority in international matters. To compare that with the situation today is the height of idiocy, as I am sure that listeners to this debate realise. As I have said, the Government is achieving and in fact has already achieved a sound base for future economic growth in this country. I have no doubt at all that 1978 will be a year of sustained and sustainable economic growth. The Opposition cannot admit it. The honourable member for Oxley cannot admit it because he knows that he was a member of a government which brought this nation to its knees. He cannot bear to watch the present Government restore the situation. But he will have to watch. Whether an election is held early or whether an election is held late, it will be a long, long time before the present Opposition ever leaves the Opposition benches. 
-My friend the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King)  made some very telling points tonight about the problems associated with adequately representing large geographical areas. There is no doubt at all that these problems of representation are greater than the problems of representation in a smaller area. I was somewhat surprised, I must say, that the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam),  who claimed that the Opposition would treat all people in the community as being adequately and equally represented, did not quite appear to recognise this fact in his unwarranted attack, to my mind, on the recent remarks of the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony).  I hope the Government will have a good look at the suggestions made by the honourable member for Wimmera because I think they are deserving of close attention. 
Tonight I want to touch mainly on two or three matters concerning the Government's role in relation to the arts. Firstly I would Uke to compliment the Minister for Capital Territory  (Mr Staley)  who is also Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in the Arts for his handling of this area of Prime Ministerial responsibility. I am delighted to see him in the chamber tonight. I know from first hand experience that those who have had contact with him in this area have been impressed by his approachability and his sound, commonsense approach to the various issues involved. The Minister, I believe, has also played a very creative role in encouraging the development of the arts in Australia. In particular, I welcome the recent decision to establish a community arts board within the Australia Council. The purpose of this decision was to achieve a wider participation in the arts throughout the community at large. The new Board will aim to reach those in the community who are not involved in or do not have association with major and traditional arts organisations. The work of the Community Arts Board will extend to outlying country areas, a very important facet of its work, I hope. It will include special interest areas such as ethnic groups. Some new pilot projects are to be aimed specifically at young people. 
I also take the opportunity to compliment my colleague, the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer),  and his Government members' committee, for the work the committee has put into the examination of new initiatives such as the Community Arts Board. Such initiatives are of great importance. Art in the overall meaning of the word adds an important dimension to the lives of individuals. Those involved with the arts have over the years frequently been regarded as elitist and, I believe, with certain justification. Equally though I think this situation seems to be changing. That is good. Where taxpayers' funds are concerned, in particular, art should reach as wide a range of people, young and old, in the community as possible. 
There is another element here too. That is the extent to which taxpayers' funds ought to be involved in development of the arts. There is no doubt in my mind that the Government must be involved to some extent otherwise the development of many art forms would wither dramatically at some cost, perhaps large cost, to our overall standard of living. On the other hand, governments must be very careful indeed not to monopolise the funding situation so as to discourage private effort and involvement. The balance to be struck is a delicate one. I am not sure whether we have yet reached the right balance but we are certainly closer to it than we were a few years ago. I compliment the Government for that. 
The decision in the Budget to liberalise the conditions under which income tax deductions are allowable for gifts of works of art and comparable property to public art galleries, museums and libraries is a further valuable step in this direction. At present a person who donates a work of art or similar property to a public art gallery, museum or library may be eligible for an income tax deduction in respect of his gift only if he purchased the item within the 12 month period preceding the date of the gift. The amount allowable is restricted at the moment to the lesser of the purchase price or the market value at the time of making the gift. As a result of the provisions of this Budget however, from 1 January next the 12 month test will be abandoned for a trial period of three years. The valuation for taxation purposes will generally be market value. I hope this change in taxation treatment will provide a shot in the arm for the smaller public galleries throughout Australia. It is through these galleries that many Australians acquire their first association with works of art. Between them, these smaller galleries house some of Australia's great art treasures. 
In my own electorate, for example, we are fortunate in having the Ballarat Fine Arts Gallery. It is one of the finest regional galleries in Australia. It has a room specifically set aside for the works of the Lindsay family. It houses the largest collection of Lindsays in Australia. It also houses many other great works of Australian art. Regional galleries throughout Australia are suffering financial hardship. As a result, some of them are having to sell off their treasures. Others have abandoned restoration programs. Still others are having to stand by and see their works deteriorate. The report on museums in Australia, presented to Parliament in, I think, 1975, mentioned some of the difficulties and made various recommendations as to how they might be tackled. Few, if any, of these recommendations have as yet been acted on. Not all of them relate to the Federal Government. However, in my opinion, there is an urgent need for the Government to have another look at that report and to use it as a basis for discussing with both State and local governments, private donors and the galleries themselves, possible ways in which regional galleries can be helped to meet better the difficulties they are now facing. 
I shall now say a few words about the policy towards acquisitions by the Australian National Gallery. What I have to say is very similar in thrust to what was said by the honourable member for Isaacs. As I understand the present situation, all works of art proposed to be purchased by the Gallery, and for which the purchase price exceeds $100,000, must be approved by either the Prime Minister or Cabinet. I find this policy difficult to follow. With all due respect to Prime Ministers and other Cabinet Ministers of this or any other day and, in particular, to the present Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in the Arts, it would be rare for them to be experts in the area of assessing the real merits of important works of art. Yet that is the position in which they are placed by the present policy. It does not seem to me to be a valid justification of this policy to argue that it provides a control over costs. It is the function of Budget preparation, Budget formulation and the subsequent Parliamentary debate on the Budget to do this. 
The Gallery cannot exceed its budget allocation for acquisitions regardless of whether Cabinet is given the responsibility of taking decisions in respect of individual acquisition pro- posals. The Director of the National Gallery and is senior staff are surely the persons best able to judge the merits of particular acquisitions within a broad acquisitions framework which I fully accept should bear the stamp of Cabinet. But once the framework has been established I believe that we should leave its implementation to the experts. The Government already requires the Gallery to get two independent expert appraisals of each proposed acquisition, together with a list of prices paid for comparable works. Why the Government on top of that safeguard and the others I have mentioned has then to give the final approval or rejection for an individual acquisition escapes me. The present policy runs the real risk of making Gallery acquisitions a political football. We have already had some good demonstrations of this. There is already far too much Government involvement in far too many areas of human activity in Australia. Assessment of works of art should not be one such involvement. I hope that the Minister and through him the Government will have a careful look at this matter. There is little doubt in my own mind that the policy in respect of acquisitions by the Australian National Gallery is not a particularly sensible one. 
In the few moments left to me, I shall say a few words about Christmas Island. It seems to be almost an island forgotten in this Parliament. It is of considerable importance to Australia. In particular, it is a major producer of phosphate. It has much strategic significance given its geographic relationship to Indonesia. There has been unrest on Christmas Island at the attitudes of successive Federal governments towards the present problems and the future of the Island. It is a matter of some regret that that unrest is still apparent, I believe with good cause. I find it incredible that the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, as I understand it, has no application on the Island. I find it surprising and disturbing that leading figures on the Island have never been told, as I am advised, why the Government's new animal health quarantine station is to be located on Cocos Island instead of Christmas Island, despite some apparent clear advantages in favour of Christmas Island and the seemingly bleak economic future for Christmas Island once its phosphate deposits run out. I will not pursue the matter further here other than to urge the Government to pay more attention to the needs and problems of Christmas Island than it and its predecessors have done. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. If the present Government were to adopt the economic policies proposed by certain spokesmen which have recently attracted some Press publicity what would be the effect on unemployment in Australia? 
I am a newcomer to this House, having been a member of the House for only two years, but I do have - 
-I thank my honourable friend but I ask him to give me the opportunity to speak. I have had a rather longer association with Parliament House and with the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean).  I was in this building in the mid-1960s as a private secretary to a man whom I respected very much indeed- the late Harold Holt. In that capacity, 1 had the privilege and the opportunity to see at first hand the work done in this Parliament by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports. At that time- in the mid-1960s- the honourable member for Melbourne Ports was held in the highest regard, I think, by all members of this Parliament, regardless of their political persuasion, for his diligence, his common sense and, above all, his integrity. 
As an officer of the Federal Treasury later and during the period when the honourable member for Melbourne Ports was the Treasurer of this country, I had the honour- I did regard it as an honour- to serve him in an advisory capacity. Again, his diligence his common sense and, above all, his integrity were all too apparent and were a very great benefit, I believe, to the government of that day. Since becoming a member of this Parliament, I would like to say without any qualification, all other new members of this Parliament have received nothing but encouragement, help and very wise advice from the honourable member for Melbourne Ports. It is something that I know all of us have appreciated. It is something for which we will always remember him with great kindness and respect. In my view the honourable member for Melbourne Ports is an illustration to all of us on both sides of this House of what parliament and a true parliamentarian should be about. I know that in all his work the honourable member has been supported over many years by a very lovely, loyal and patient wife. I should like to wish the honourable member for Melbourne Ports and his wife a very long and happy retirement. I know it is a little way off but perhaps we will not have another opportunity to wish him well. I say this with all sincerity. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 17 August 1977: 
What sum has been spent on earthworks at Ballarat College of Advanced Education in each of the last 5 financial years. 
) How many of these jobs were tendered for, how many firms tendered for the jobs and which were the firms. 
How many of these contracts have been over-run in costs and by how much. 
On what dates were these contracts for earthworks advertised, and in which papers. 
If the earthworks were not tendered for, what method of allocating the contracts was used in these cases. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations and concerns the dispute over recruitment to the Commonwealth Employment Service in New South Wales and Victoria. Can the Minister inform the House of the current situation in relation to this dispute? 
-The matter I wish to raise tonight concerns a report in the  Sunday Observer  of 26 February 1978 entitled 'Banned drug here'. The report is described as a special probe and is by a person named Bill Johnston. The report deals with a drug called duogynon. Importation of this drug was banned by the Federal Government in February 1976 and in December 1976 the Australian Drug Evaluation Committee requested that all existing stocks be returned. That was done because of authoritative advice received by the Federal Department of Health that duogynon could have serious side effects if administered to pregnant women. 
The  Sunday Observer  report is full of inaccuracies. For example, it talks about the 'Adverse Drug Reaction Department in Canberra. There is no such department. Presumably the reporter means the Adverse Drug Reaction Advisory Committee, which is a sub-committee of the Australian Drug Evaluation Committee. The report names a  Mr Jack  Sandry as the Secretary of the non-existent department.  Mr Sandry  is in fact a press officer attached to the Department of . Health. The part of the report to which I take great exception is that which quotes a spokesman for the Melbourne company Schering Pty Ltd as saying that although the drug is banned 'there is still plenty of the stuff around and you can get plenty from the Ballarat Base Hospital'. That is totally untrue. The Medical Superintendent of the Ballarat Base Hospital has advised me that duogynon has not been used at the Hospital certainly for more than two years and probably nearer to four years and that the hospital has not had any stocks of duogynon since that time. 
I am told that Schering Pty Ltd has now denied that it made any reference whatsoever to the Ballarat Base Hospital when it was approached by the  Sunday Observer.  I am also told that the  Observer  reporter did not contact the hospital to check the facts before running the story. If that is an example of a  Sunday Observer  special probe, I dread to think what inaccuracies are contained in its less probing reporting. At the same time, however, I am concerned at reports that duogynon can still be obtained at some pharmacies in Melbourne and that some doctors are still prescribing the drug. I have expressed this concern to the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  and I trust that he will cause immediate investigations to be made into these allegations. 
It is incredible how many reasons honourable gentlemen opposite can find for being decimated at the last election. The honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  is now using spokesmen for the clothing, footwear and textile industries as a reason. It is high time the Opposition woke up to the fact that the Australian Labor Party lost in 1977, as it did in 1975, because of its incompetence, dubious honesty and dereliction of duty and the rampant socialism that marked its period of office between 1973 and 1975. When will it all end? When will the Labor Party wake up and put its own house in order? 
The Industries Assistance Commission Amendment Bill and the consequential Customs Tariff Amendment Bill are of considerable importance to all sections of the Australian economy. I shall confine my remarks tonight primarily to the main Bill, that is, the Industries Assistance Commission Amendment Bill. As the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  said in his second reading speech, this Bill was presented to the last Parliament but the dissolution of that Parliament prevented its being considered then. It has therefore been reintroduced. The Bill was subjected to intensive consideration by all members of the Government parties. I think it is fair to say that it has the widest support, despite the fact that within our parties, just as is the case within the Labor Party, there is a wide divergence of view between individual members in their general philosophy towards the whole question of protection in Australia. 
The main objective of the Bill is to permit the IAC and the Temporary Assistance Authority to respond fully to the Government's policy on industry and to ensure that efficient emergency procedures to safeguard industries exist. I believe that such an objective is entirely reasonable and necessary provided- it is a major proviso- that the independence of the IAC is fully maintained and in no way compromised. That proviso is met completely in this Bill. The IAC remains independent in its advisory role. It is important to stress that the IAC's role is advisory and advisory only. There seems to be an impression amongst some industries and industry spokesmen that the IAC is actually the body which makes decisions as to the level of assistance to be provided to local industry. That, of course, is not so, nor has it ever been the case. It is the government of the day and the government alone which makes the decisions. But it is of critical importance that the advice coming to government on these matters must be independent, impartial and objective. As I have said, the Bill ensures that this will continue to be the case. For that reason I cannot comprehend the second part of the amendment moved by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  which suggests that the Government's action in this Bill is threatening the basic independence of the Industries Assistance Commission. I cannot see that for one moment. I think it has been made clear by the Minister, by the content of the Bill and by the consideration that has been given to it that it is simply not the case. 
The Bill provides that the Industries Assistance Commission and the Temporary Assistance Authority shall in their work have regard to the Government's desire to achieve sustained growth through balanced development of industries with a view to providing increased opportunities for employment and investment. That too is a very important provision and I will turn to it later in my remarks. I cannot emphasise enough that it is a major commitment of the Government to have a sound and viable manufacturing sector in this country. From time to time we hear manufacturing industry spokesmen who do not seem to recognise this, but the Government has repeatedly made this clear and I believe that the whole thrust of the White Paper on the Manufacturing Industry was in this direction. 
The Bill also makes it clear that it is the Government's objective that any measures to achieve change in the structure of industry are taken only after due regard has been given to the capacity of the economy to sustain those changes and to absorb members of the work force displaced by those changes. In other words, the Government is concerned about the rate of change in the structure of industry. Change is inevitable. Change is inexorable. It is simply not possible deliberately to resist change if we are to have a prosperous economy and a high standard of living for all Australians. But change must occur at a rate which is manageable and at a rate which does not cause major dislocation to the economic and social structure of our society. Industries are constantly having to cope with and adjust to changes imposed on them for many reasons, probably the most important of which are changing demand and changing technology. But it makes little sense to force change at such a pace as to cause major dislocation. This is very important in the case of existing investment in particular industries. 
Potential new investment is highly volatile and highly mobile but frequently existing investment is not mobile other than over a period of time. Existing plant and equipment normally will have only limited alternative use. Particularly if the industry is in a non-metropolitan area, the displaced labour force will have difficulty in easily finding alternative employment in the area. If people are forced to leave the area at short notice to find new work, and especially if they have to go to a metropolitan area for employment, important and very considerable economic and just as important social costs will be incurred. Therefore, I am very strongly of the view that tariff changes should occur gradually. If the Government takes a decision that an industry is a too-high cost an industry and should not continue to be protected then the reduction in protection should be phased in over a period sufficiently long to permit the resources in the industry to move to other industries with the minimum of economic and social disruption. If such an approach is not followed, the costs resulting from the tariff reduction may very well outweigh the benefits. As with most things in life, economic and other things, the rate of change rather than change itself is the most critical factor influencing the ability of the individual or the institution to cope with and adjust to the change without too severe debilitating effects. 
The Bill also requires the Commission to report on the level of assistance required to ensure that activity and employment in an industry are sustained. Whilst the thought behind this provision is unexceptionable, I have some doubts as to how it can be applied in practice. Many factors determine the level of output and employment in any industry, even one which is highly protected. The overall level of economic activity in the community is probably the most important factor. For industries which export a proportion of their output, activity and competition in overseas markets can also be significant determinants. The rate of growth of wage and raw material cost are other considerations. So too in this world of floating exchange rates is the movement in the value of the Australian dollar relative to other currencies. All these factors can and do change over time, and often quite quickly. Therefore the IAC faces a Herculean task or perhaps a Houdini-like task in meeting this requirement of the Bill. I have no objection to the provision but I think it would be unfortunate if industry were left with the impression that either the Commission or the Government had the prescience to be able to pick a rate of tariff which ensured the maintenance of existing output and employment levels. It is more than likely that outside factors will make this impossible of achievement and that the result will be either higher or lower output and employment than that predicted. 
I am very pleased to see that the Bill will give the Government the same flexibility in dealing with recommendations of the TAA as applies in respect to recommendations by the Industries Assistance Commission. As I understand it, up until now the Government has not been permitted to decide on a higher rate of temporary assistance than that recommended by the Temporary Assistance Authority, whereas there was not the same restriction on the Government in relation to its decisions based on IAC recommendations. I could never see any logical reason for this distinction and I am glad that the Bill removes the apparent anomaly. There are other provisions which are also sensible; for example, the extension from the present 30 days to 45 days in the time limit put on the TAA in which to report on matters referred to it. Also sensible, I believe, is the provision that temporary assistance granted following a TAA report will not continue for a period of more than 12 months without review by either the TAA or the Commission, and that temporary assistance will not be provided beyond a second year unless a report on the industry concerned has been received from the IAC. 
There are two aspects of the question of time limits which are not contained in the Bill but which cause me some concern. The first is the fact that no time limit is placed on the IAC in which to report following receipt of a reference. I have had several experiences within my own electorate of companies with references before the IAC having to wait up to four years from the date of the reference before obtaining a final decision. I believe that this is a very bad state of affairs which should not be permitted to continue. This situation is less likely to occur nowadays because many references now have a time limit written into them. But there is no statutory provision. I have discussed this matter with the 
Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, who is at the table, and I think that he agrees with me. He has pointed out certain practical difficulties in writing a time limit into the Industries Assistance Commission Act, and I accept that. However, I would like to receive an assurance from the Minister, perhaps when he is summing up at the end of this debate, that time limits will be written into all future references to the IAC unless extraordinary circumstances in individual cases dictate that this would not be prudent. 
In my personal view, no IAC inquiry should be permitted to take more than 12 months from date of reference to date of receipt by government. In saying that, my main aim is to ensure that an industry knows, once it has a reference, how long it will take and how long the indusry must expect to wait before there is a report by the IAC on the reference. The second timing factorI accept also that this could not be covered in the Bill- relates to the time it takes the Government to reach and announce decisions following receipt of IAC or TAA reports. Again, several companies in my electorate have had unfortunate experiences in this respect. I recognise that there are various interdepartmental procedures which need to be followed and which take time, and that on occasions Cabinet may seek further information on reports and submissions referred to it, which again delays final decision taking. My only plea to the Government is that once reports are received from the IAC or the TAA it does all that is reasonably practicable to ensure that decisions are made and announced as soon as possible. Delays have very unsettling effects on business confidence and investment decisions. 
Perhaps the most important economic policy aspect of the Bill is the clear recognition by the Government of the interdependence of shortterm and long-term assistance issues. I commend the following statement made by the Minister in his second reading speech: 
Temporary assistance will not, therefore, be provided in such a way that it effectively removes the need for industries to adapt to changing circumstances; rather it will be provided so as to allow industries to take appropriate action to adapt to such changes. These amendments will ensure that an appropriate balance is struck between long-term and short-term assistance. 
The area of tariff policy is one of the most important areas with which any government has to deal. It is also one of the most difficult and politically sensitive areas. To my knowledge it is only in relatively recent years that this House has engaged in substantive debate of the subject. The fact that tariff policy has been elevated to the debate level owes much, I believe, to the persistence of the former honourable member for Wakefield,  Mr Bert  Kelly, and I take this opportunity to place on record the debt that this Parliament and the nation owes to Bert Kelly. I am pleased also to observe that for a variety of reasons, including, I hope, the increased attention being given in debate in this House to the question of tariffs, other outside organisations and bodies also are making an increasing contribution to the debate. I am very pleased, for example, to note the existence and the content of the Australian Development Assistance Agency study entitled 'Protection in Perspective'. Regardless of whether or not one agrees with that study in whole or in part I think it is a significant contribution to the debate on tariffs. I welcome its existence and I hope it receives wide coverage. I also welcome the contributions that have been made on an increasingly objective and analytical basis by rural and other organisations throughout the country. 
I represent an electorate which has an important manufacturing sector, an important rural sector and an important tertiary sector. I have watched with concern the growth of expression in Australia that what is good for the manufacturing sector is bad for the rural sector, and conversely. Such views ignore the inter-relationships between different sectors of the economy. They also ignore the simple economics of development and the fact that much of the community is not directly part either of the rural sector or the manufacturing sector. Further, and this is a point which seems rarely to be raised in the debate on tariffs, even by the manufacturing sector itself, a significant number of secondary industries either face no competition from imports or export their products as well as selling them on the home market. Equally, some rural industries sell the majority of their output on the domestic market whilst for others the export market is by far the more important market. 
Furthermore, there is the simple fact that if we as a nation are to develop our full potential and to generate the goods and services needed to accommodate the community's rising and diversified material and other aspirations, we must utilise our resources in the most efficient manner compatible with our other policy objectives. Efficient resource usage is quite fundamental to the achievement of our overall objectives. There is no doubt in my mind that this cannot be achieved without the healthy development of all sectors, primary, secondary and tertiary. It makes as little sense to say that we can do without a viable rural sector or healthy secondary industries as it would to say that we do not need schools or hospitals. That being said, however, it must be recognised also that at the end of the day all industries in all sectors compete with each other for resources. In many respects the most important competition for resources is between industries within the manufacturing sector. What we must ensure is that those industries which can use resources in the most economical way are not deprived of those resources because they are, for whatever reason, going into less economical usage industries. 
The question of the appropriate level of the tariff cannot, therefore, be simplified into arguing the case for the rural sector versus the manufacturing sector versus the mining sector and so on. Rather, the debate should be arguing the case for policies to achieve the greatest economy and efficiency within each sector, while recognising the problems that high tariffs pose for those areas of the economy that either require no protection at all or little protection. There is little or no dispute amongst economists, politicians or businessmen from whatever sector of productive activity they may come that tariffs increase the cost structure of the nation, nor is there any real dispute that tariffs tend to distort the market, particularly when, as in the case of Australia, there is a wide range in the level of tariffs applying to different industries. This fact is in itself an important argument for the proposition that the lower the level of tariffs less imperfect is.the market system and, therefore, the better economic use is made of available resources. 
There are many other things that one could say in a debate like this and many other issues that must be covered. There is the question of the relationship between tariffs and the exchange rate; the question of tariff compensation for rural, mining and manufacturing industries which now bear the burden of the costs imposed by tariffs; the relationship between tariff policy and wages policy, between tariffs and employment opportunities and the like. It is for this reason that I hope the House will have further opportunities to debate these subjects. In the meantime I reiterate my support for the two Bills and reject the amendment moved by the Opposition. So far as the first part of that amendment is concerned, it seems to me that it will do nothing other than to lead us down the road to socialism. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I commence my remarks today by asking you to convey to  Mr Speaker  and to our new  Chairman  of Committees my congratulations on their appointments. I also take this opportunity to thank the people of the Ballarat electorate for returning me to Parliament to serve them, and the nation, for a further three years. I particularly welcome the chance to serve the new areas of my electorate, the largest of which is the city of Maryborough. I regret however that I no longer represent the seat of Ballaarat spelled with a double 'A'. The historic spelling of the name was changed along with the redrawing of boundaries. That, I think, is a pity, and I trust that the change will be reversed at the next redistribution. 
I extend to the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  and the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  my congratulations on their election to their respective positions of Leader and  Deputy  Leader of the Parliamentary Labor Party. Both gentlemen have heavy tasks ahead of them if they are to remould the Labor Party into an effective opposition again after two disastrous election defeats. I think it is very important that they succeed in these tasks. At a time when democratic institutions around the world, and particularly what should be the most fundamental democratic institution of all, namely Parliament, are coming under increasing pressure, it is vital that we have a strong and effective parliamentary opposition. Other speakers, from both sides of the House, have dwelt on this general issue during our present debate. Several have made positive and thought-provoking suggestions. The contribution by my friend the honourable member for Perth  (Mr McLean)  in particular deserves careful consideration. 
Australia is one of fewer than 20 countries in the entire world which still have democratically elected governments. If we want to preserve our basic democratic freedoms, we are going to have to work for them. We cannot take them for granted, as a God given right. We as a Parliament need to use the next three years wisely, to ensure that we lay the framework for the future prosperous, and compassionate, development of our nation; to ensure that our basic institutions are properly structured to cope with the future requirements that will be asked of them; and to ensure that in coping with the short term problems that will confront us all, we do not lose sight of our longer term objectives. 
As members of this Thirty-first Parliament we in this chamber- on both sides of the Houseand our colleagues in another place, have a great responsibility to those who have elected us to office to justify their confidence in us, to convince them that we as parliamentarians are conscious of their needs and are earnest in our desires to meet those needs within the framework of the overall resources of our nation. We need to strengthen Parliament relative to government. Government must be permitted to govern but it must not do this in a way which ignores Parliament and parliamentary processes. 
There are many ways in which Parliament should be strengthened. The first, and most essential, is to increase the staff and backup faculties available to members of Parliament. It is quite impossible for members- certainly of this chamber- to carry out all the functions quite rightly expected of them by their constituents, and at the same time to play any worthwhile part in the legislative and policy formulation process, with their existing support staff. The staff increases necessary need not cost the taxpayer additional money, as I believe the problem could, and should, be met by transferring these resources away from Government Departments and towards Parliament. 
We need as well to re-think our practices in relation to the handling of legislation through the Parliament. Parliament needs to be involved, I believe, at an earlier stage than is the case now. A major revamping of the committee system is called for. This could be done in various ways. One that appeals to me as worthy of consideration is that followed in the West German Parliament, where legislation initially presented to the Bundestag is presented in draft form. Before further debate, this draft legislation is worked over in detail by small expert committees of members of the Bundestag. These committees can, I understand, co-opt outside advice. This approach strengthens the role of parliament. It brings greater and wider expertise to the legislative process and it is conducive, I believe, to a better spirit of co-operation and bipartisanship between the major parties than is the case in our essentially Westminster system. 
We in Australia need a greater bipartisan approach to many of the issues which confront us. No government is always right, and no opposition is always wrong. Other institutional arrangements also are of great importance. In particular, there are those relating to industrial relations and wage fixation. The arbitration and conciliation system which we have in Australia has served us long, and many would say well. But is it, in its present form, still relevant to our present day and age, and to the changes that face us in the future? Is it still desirable to have a body such as the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission so frequently interposed between management and labour as is now the case, or may it not be preferable to have more matters discussed, negotiated and resolved between the two parties directly? I do not know the answer. It obviously is a complex issue and requires careful examination. But at the very least we should be giving thought to the matter. 
Similarly, we should be paying more attention to the organisation of trade unions in Australia. At present we have some 300 trade unions. Nations like Germany and Japan, with work forces many times the size of ours, have 25 to 30 trade unions. Whether this has been responsible for the phenomenal economic performance of both these countries since World War II is not fully proven. However, it does seem highly probable, at least in part. I would like to see a strong move towards industry unions in Australia, and a major reduction in the number of unions. This would, I believe, lead to a significant increase in both the quality and the sense of responsibility of union leaders. 
I would also like to see legislation introduced to make compulsory a vote of union members before strike action is adopted. To quote West Germany again, not only must any strike there be approved by the union's executive council, but at least 75 per cent of the members of the union must previously have voted for industrial action in a secret ballot. In taking a decision, the union executive must take into account the business situation of the firm concerned, the general economic situation, and the public's  welfare.  A strike must be directed solely against the employer. Strikes in sympathy, or political strikes, are not allowed. Is it  Utopian  to think of such an institutional arrangement in Australia? Perhaps it is, but if the West Germans can do it, why cannot we? Would it lead to a massive revolt by the union movement in Australia? Perhaps it would, but the fact remains that in West Germany the system works well, and relationships between management and labour are much more cooperative and harmonious than they are in Australia. 
We also need a complete revision of our principles and methods of wage fixation. The present inquiry into this matter by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission will be of vital long term significance for our economic wellbeing, both collectively and individually. I am convinced that the principle of fixing wages primarily in accordance with changes in the cost of living is a bad principle. To give full flow-ons simply builds inflation into our system. The same applies, although to a lesser degree, with partial indexation and partial indexation has the additional fault that it in no way brings or buys industrial peace. If anything, it may do the opposite. Any system of wage fixation which has as its essential principle anything other than wage increases must be based primarily on productivity increases is, to my mind, an unsatisfactory system. It is argued by some that in order to preserve wages equity between different workers in different industries, wages in all industries must move up uniformly. This is a dangerous argument. It ignores the fact that some industries are more productive than others. These industries should therefore be in a position to attract workers and other resources through financial incentive but this will not happen if wages move uniformly throughout all industries, wage uniformity is a major factor inhibiting the most productive and efficient use of our resources and a major cause of inflation. 
Another institution which is also in great need of review and improvement is our structure of capital markets. For most of our history successive governments appear to have had a fear of permitting capital markets in Australia to operate on a market oriented basis. Perhaps in no other area is there such a plethora of official controls and intervention. Many of these have grown up piecemeal over the years. The result is a capital market structure which most financial observers would accept as being overly inhibited and inefficient. I fully support calls which have been made from various sources for a national inquiry into capital markets. Such an inquiry would need to review both internal and external considerations. Matters requiring consideration on the internal side include the effect of existing taxation policy, particularly section 26aaa and 26a of the Income Tax Act; the 30/20 rule for insurance companies, and the whole basis of taxation of insurance companies; the special capital market needs of small businesses; stamp duty; the inability to short securities on the Australian stock exchanges in a controlled fashion; and the general regulatory controls exercised by the Reserve Bank over the banking system. 
On the external side there is, for example, the inhibiting effect of regulations which exclude a forward market in foreign exchange transactions for capital items and a currency futures market, and the difficulties facing Australian companies in borrowing abroad in Australian dollars. A closely related issue is the method of determining the value of the Australian dollar against other currencies. Our present system of fixing the value of the dollar by administrative fiat on a daily basis using a trade-weighted basket seems to me to run the risk of giving us the worst of all possible worlds. If we are going to have a flexible exchange rate, as seems inevitable given the world in which we currently live, why not let the rate be determined by market forces but subject to Reserve Bank intervention in the market as may be required? This would simply conform with the practice which has long been followed by most other Western nations. Such an approach would, or course, necessitate the development of a proper foreign exchange market. This is something that is long overdue in Australia in any event. We should be moving towards this end now, regardless of the separate issue of exchange rate fixation. 
We need as well to be looking at other institutions which have been created in recent years. One that I have particularly in mind is the Prices Justification Tribunal. It is very difficult to find any firm evidence to suggest that the existence of the Tribunal has in any way led to lower prices throughout the community than would otherwise have been the case. On the contrary there are those who claim that its existence has led to higher prices in some areas including, in particular, motor vehicles. The Prices Justification Tribunal is an expensive addition to the bureaucracy of this country which is paid for by taxpayers' funds. As well, it imposes significant costs on firms appearing before it through the work involved in preparing submissions. 
Since its establishment both the previous Labor Government, which was responsible for setting up the Tribunal, and the present Government have reduced in various ways the powers of the Tribunal. There have been several reasons for this, not the least of which was its role in its earlier days in eroding business confidence and profitability and deterring investment, thereby aggravating the unemployment situation. The main reason advanced for retention of the Tribunal is that its very existence' is conducive to greater harmony in industrial relations. There may well be some substance in this argument, but against this must be weighed the considerable disadvantages to which I have just referred. My own judgment is that these disadvantages will outweigh the one possible advantage, and for this reason I urge the Government to take early action to abolish the Tribunal. 
We have seen in recent years a massive growth of government regulation of, and intervention in, the affairs of the private sector. Some of these have been necessary and desirable; others have much more dubious justification. If we are to have a healthy and enterprising private sectorthe sector which provides 75 per cent of all jobs in this nation and the overwhelming proportion of the goods and services we need- it must not be unduly hobbled by government intervention and regulation. It must be permitted to get on with the job of producing, making profits, investing those profits in further developments and providing employment and creating new jobs in a manner compatible with the private sector's overall responsibility to act responsibly in the interests of the community as a whole. The private sector cannot be totally absolved from all responsibility in this growth of government intervention. Too many industries seem to take the approach of saying 'hands off' to government when things are going well for them, but come running to government for assistance or intervention when things are not going well. I urge those industries which adopt this approach to rethink their attitude, otherwise it is quite inevitable that government involvement in their affairs will grow inexorably over time and that would be bad not only for the industries concerned but also for our nation as a whole. 
An issue about which we hear much today and which has a relationship to the point I have just been discussing is that of- to use the current jargonstructural adjustment'. This is not something new. Industries in Australia, as in all other countries, have been adjusting to change throughout our history. The best example would undoubtedly be our rural industries, which have been engaged in a continuous adaptation to changed consumer demand, new technology and changing markets. Our manufacturing industries have also undergone considerable changes over the years, for similar reasons. Change is inevitable. We cannot resist it indefinitely. Equally, government has a responsibility to ensure that change does not take place at an unmanageable rate, at a rate which places undue strain on the economy. 
This is particularly important in relation to tariff policy, about which I spoke in this House last week and which therefore I will not pursue in any detail today. What we must move towards over time is the situation where a larger proportion of our resources is going into those industries which are best able to compete in our domestic market and /or in world markets. We must encourage and, where necessary, provide incentives to these industries to expand their markets. For many manufacturing industries our home market is too small for optimal efficiency. These industries must therefore look for export markets and the Government must assist them in this regard. I therefore particularly welcome the Government's proposals for a new export incentive scheme based on providing incentives to firms which get out and seek markets abroad and which increase their exports to those markets. I hope the Government will announce the details of this scheme as soon as possible. 
Productivity and specialisation will be the key to our success or failure. In the next decade competition in both the domestic and export markets is likely to become even more intensive as the lower wage countries expand in world trade. If we are to survive this competition we must specialise and we must pull out all the stops on improving our productivity. This in turn, however, raises other issues. If we succeed in raising productivity, will overall demand for the output of our industries, both at home and abroad, be sufficient to absorb the labour that will be released from existing employment as well as to lower the present level of unemployment? I see no overriding reasons why Australia, with sound economic management and with appropriate job training and retraining schemes, cannot lift its rate of economic growth to a level over the years ahead which will permit a significant reduction in our level of unemployment. It will not be easy. It will require considerable initiative by the private sector, and trade unions and considerable support from government. 
The answer of course does not lie entirely in our own hands. To a larger extent than many people realise, our future economic prospects will depend increasingly on economic trends in the rest of the world. A protracted period of little growth in international trade could jeopardise the Government's strategies concerning maintenance of the exchange rate and a lowering of interest rates, and could short-circuit the recovery in the Australian economy which is now clearly emerging. 
I have deliberately concentrated today on some of the longer term issues that we need to tackle in the next three years. There are others, high on the list being the great need to reduce the cost of health care in this country. This can be done only by strengthening hospital management, by discouraging doctors from prescribing more and more specialist services and by discouraging people from unnecessarily utilising medical and hospital services. 
The health care industry is an industry, despite the special aura that tends to surround it. It should be subject to the same rigorous costbenefit tests that are applied to most other industries. The cost of health care in Australia has risen enormously in recent years. Its growth has been far ahead of the rate of inflation and population growth. Despite the enormous increase in cost, we do not seem to be noticeably any healthier, or to live any longer. We simply cannot afford a continuation of the rate of increase in health costs which we have been experiencing. 
I believe it is incumbent upon us all- the government, the Parliament, and the nation- to make sure that we use the next three years wisely. We are on the right track, but I believe much more can be done. As we move towards the 1980s and the latter two decades of this century, we will find a world of change, a world of much greater complexity than we have ever experienced before and a world in which we will need to use all our initiatives, all our thoughts and all our co-operative processes to get us through the period ahead. If we do so, I believe our future will be very bright. 
-I wish to raise a matter which I view with the greatest concern. On 22 February in this House the Opposition raised the subject of unemployment as a matter of public importance. In the debate the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  in attempting to pillory the Fraser Government for the present level of unemployment, said: 
A survey carried out by the Victorian Mental Health Association found that in Dandenong suicides were 12 times the area average amongst the unemployed, and seven times greater in Ballarat 
The clear implication of the remarks of the honourable member for Oxley was that this was a situation that had arisen during the period in office of the present Government and that this Government was responsible for the suicide rate. What the Leader of the Opposition omitted to say was that the survey to which he referred was carried out in 1 97 1 , more than six years ago. This was a time when employment in Ballarat was at a peak and unemployment was at a near record low. 
The gentleman also omitted to mention several other facts, including that the survey made specific mention that Ballarat contains a psychiatric and mental hospital with about 1,000 beds and that most of the attempted suicides in this institution would comprise people classified in the unemployed category, thereby, of course, heavily loading the incidence in this category. This is not the first time that the Labor Party has used this survey in a deliberately distorted and vicious manner. The Leader of the Opposition in the Victorian Parliament,  Mr Wilkes,  tried it on in September last year. He was promptly put straight by the Assistant Minister for Health,  Mr Jona,  and the State member for Ballarat North,  Mr Tom  Evans. 
The honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  made the same allegation in a debate in this House on 6 October last. Labor spokesmen know they are indeed playing lightly with the truth when they make these wild assertions. They know that the survey is six years old and they know that the figures must be heavily qualified. They know that they cannot be applied with any validity whatsoever to the present situation. They ought to know that surveys such as that in any case do not demonstrate any causal relationship. More importantly, they also ought to know that such untrue wild assertions do great hurt to those who are unemployed. They ought to know that such assertions arouse deep anger amongst fair and reasonable people. The economic and social problems facing unemployed persons are great. They must be faced realistically and compassionately. 
The Opposition does the unemployed a great disservice by attempting to make the unemployed political cannon fodder. That reflects on the integrity of the Opposition. It reflects particularly on the integrity of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden).  However, that integrity has been shot to ribbons in recent days. The honourable member for Oxley is having a bad time of it.  His  integrity is at present in great question.  His  parliamentary performance as Leader of the Opposition has been lamentable, and already there are whisperings in the Labor corridors about how long he is going to last as Leader of the Labor party. The people of Ballarat particularly the unemployed, will have no truck with the Leader of the Opposition playing with the truth, as he has done over the past two weeks.  His  assertion, to which I have referred tonight, has disgusted my electorate and I have no doubt that the electorate at large feels the same. 
-My question is directed to the Treasurer. Is it a fact that the value of the United States dollar has slumped substantially against most major currencies m recent days? If so, does this pose a significant threat to international monetary stability and international trade? Does it also pose a threat to the recovery of the Australian economy which at present is under way as a result of sound economic management by this Government? If so, what measures does the Treasurer intend to take to prevent these international currency difficulties from having repercussions on Australia? In particular, will the Treasurer take early steps to facilitate the development of provisions to enable forward cover to be taken on capital transactions? 
I am delighted that the Government has provided the House with an early opportunity to debate the Discussion Paper on Paying for Health Care and I congratulate the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  for providing adequate time for the paper to be discussed. More importantly, I congratulate the Government on arranging for the Hospitals and Health Services Commission to have the paper prepared in the first place and I congratulate  Dr Sax  on the quality of the document. Unlike the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden),  I happen to believe that this document is a very important and well researched one- a document that is going to have considerable long-term implications and consequences. The paper is extremely comprehensive in its coverage of the issues involved and the whole question of the financing of health services. It should be compulsory reading for all persons with an interest in the subject, which I think would include most Australians. The paper has the great virtue of being a discussion paper, and I am delighted that we have it. I think that in this Parliament we ought to have many more discussion papers than we do have. As the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  stressed when presenting it, the paper does not necessarily represent the views of the Government and the Government is therefore not locked in to any firm views at this stage. That is good because it gives the community at large the opportunity to present its view to the Government, to be taken into account when decisions come to be made. It also has the virtue, or it should have, of promoting a non-party political debate in this House about the issues involved. I was pleased to note that many speakers on the other side adopted a nonparty political approach, and I was very saddened indeed that some of the leading spokesmen for the Opposition did not see fit to follow that line. 
The problems facing us in Australia in the area of health care are enormous, at least so far as the cost of health care and its financing are concerned. Indeed, I believe that there are few more important issues to be resolved than this one, and I use the word 'resolved ' advisedly. It is patently obvious that there is a major problem and it will not go away of its own accord. The problem affects each and every member of the community and each and every taxpayer. The simple fact is that the cost of health care in Australia has escalated to a point where it is absorbing so much of our gross domestic product that it is imposing an onerous burden on each member of the community, either through private contributions or through taxes. It is pre-empting expenditure that might well be better spent in other areas and it is making the task of overall economic management by government increasingly difficult. The pointing out of these simple if unpalatable facts is one of the great strengths of  Dr Sax's  discussion paper.  His  proposals for possible solutions, of course, will be the centre of keen discussion, but no specific solutions can really be forthcoming until there is a general community awareness of the size and nature of the problem. 
The problem simply is that we cannot afford continuing increases of the magnitude of recent years, increases that brought the total health bill of this nation to $6,254m in 1976-77, with an even larger amount estimated for the current year. Indeed, for the nine years to 1975-76, total health expenditure in this country rose by 329 per cent, an increase that has far outstripped the rate of increase in wages, prices and population. Between 1971-72 and 1975-76, as the Discussion Paper Paying for Health Care points out, only 8 per cent of the increase in health expenditure was attributed to population changes. Fiftyeight per cent of the increase was due to the higher prices for medical and institutional services and 34 per cent of the increase- that is, more than one-third- was due to increased usage of services in terms of both volume and intensity. Of course, had the usage been less the amount of the increase in total costs due to the higher prices element would have been correspondingly less. 
The issues involved in all of these matters are very complex. They include changing medical needs, changing medical aspirations, changing influences and attitudes by the medical profession, changing technology, changing aspirations by potential patients and the methods of financing health costs. All of those changes require careful identification of the underlying factors and examination of the reasons behind them before conclusions for change can be reached confidently. The complexity suggests that any new arrangements to solve these problems- I agree completely with  Dr Sax  hererequire meticulous planning with long lead times and careful attention to public relations. 
I want to touch briefly on those particular areas which seem to me to be the most important. These are the attitude of doctors towards encouraging patients to utilise more and more sophisticated specialist services, the cost of running hospitals and capital costs, and the financial incentives or disincentives to potential users of health services. As the Discussion Paper states, the doctor is the key decision-maker. It is the doctor who allocates health services by recommending revisits, referrals to specialists, ordering laboratory and X-ray investigations, recommending hospital admissions, operations, length of stay in hospital and so on.  Dr Sax  uses an interesting term. He states that the doctor is and must be the 'gatekeeper' of the system. This is particularly important in the case of hospital costs. It is the doctor who in large measure determines the use of hospital services, the costs of which have grown more than any other element within the health care system. Doctors must be made more aware than many of them are at present of the cost of establishing new hospital facilities and of the cost of running and servicing those facilities. Rigid cost benefit analysis must be applied to the decision-making process to determine whether new facilities should be established. As the Discussion Paper states- again I agree very much with the contents of this paragraph- there must be a strict evaluation of the necessity for capital expenditures on new hospital construction and a rationalisation of specialised facilities between hospitals on an intra-regional and inter-regional basis. 
Hospital boards of management have an important role to play in this matter as well. Most boards are manned by highly worthy persons, many of them leaders in their local communities. At present, however, at least in Victoria, these boards do not have the positive incentives to be as cost conscious as they might. This is because of what I regard as the ridiculous system of forcing hospitals to return any savings at the end of each year to Consolidated Revenue. I particularly commend to the House paragraph 181 of the Discussion Paper which, amongst other things, states that there should be the development of a system of positive incentives to reward efficient public hospital managements instead of the negative incentives inherent in the current system which returns savings to State treasuries. 
-That is a possibility too. It would involve the use of a uniform accounts mechanism that is being developed. The paragraph goes on to state: 
Agreement would be reached on methods of making allowances for unexpected factors which could cause expenditure overruns, and then a scheme might be negotiated for the return to the hospital of a portion of any savings for specified purposes. Such a return from savings would constitute a positive incentive to achieve expenditure limitations. 
Of course, the Discussion Paper points out that there are potential difficulties in such a scheme including deliberate over-budgeting. It therefore suggests that pilot projects would be necessary to evaluate the approach in groups of different hospitals. I believe that this is one of the most important paragraphs of the review and I hope that both State and Federal Governments will look very closely at it. At the moment, there is no doubt that major disincentives exist to make hospitals not as efficient as they might be, given the present financial arrangements. I am also very attracted by the following paragraphs in the Paper, paragraph 182, which makes the following suggestion: 
Consideration could be given, in the context of revised Commonwealth-State cost-sharing arrangements, to the use of global budgets for all publicly organised health services in a region. Commonwealth contributions to the States might then be based on a formula which aggregates existing payments from several discrete cost-sharing programs. Such arrangements would provide incentives for closing down under-used services or unnecessary duplications of units, and for the use of cheaper alternatives to hospital care to compensate for closures . . . 
Improvements in these areas are long overdue. But they will not in themselves cure all the problems. Productivity is also very important. I have a major hospital in my electorate- I am sure I am not atypical in this respect- which has the same number of hospital beds as it had 7 years to 10 years ago. But over the same period the total staff at this hospital has doubled. This is because of changes in the nurse training system, greater job specialisation by non-specialist staff and perhaps for other reasons. These are matters which I believe require most urgent consideration. They do not appear to receive, on my reading of the Discussion Paper, much, if any, attention. But there is no doubt that they have been a major factor behind the increase in hospital costs in recent years for the simple reason that wages and salaries comprise 70 per cent to 80 per cent of the total costs of running hospitals. Decisions in these areas are important and will not attract full community acceptance. 
Even more difficult are the decisions that may need to be taken in respect of the proportion of medical bills to be met by the patient. Most of us would accept that it is desirable that patients should pay a certain proportion of their health bills themselves. The question at issue is: What proportion? I believe that the debate on this subject often tends to get out of proportion and to lose its perspective. The argument tends to ignore the real issue, important though that argument is. The real issue in the end is that the community must bear the full cost of health care. It must do so either through personal direct contributions or through taxation. The only solution in the end really lies in educating both potential patients and the medical profession as to the need not to over-use medical care. Both groups need educating. Perhaps the medical profession needs educating more than the patients. It is worth remembering that, despite the enormous increase in health costs over recent years, we are not noticeably more healthy nor do we live longer. 
Finally, I express the view-I think it is related to this fact- that we pay far too little attention in this country to preventative medicine as distinct from curative medicine. The Discussion Paper makes the point that the present health financing system provides little inducement to undertake greater effort in this area. I hope that the Government will take full note of this point in framing any future decisions on improving our health system. In this context I particularly have in mind the increasing problem in our community of alcoholism and drug dependence. These growing diseases in our community are causing increasing social, health and economic problems. I believe that unless we as a nation tackle those problems we will see them become increasingly more difficult and more tragic for many people. No one in this Parliament would deny that it is axiomatic that all Australians must have access to essential health services without financial hardship preventing them from obtaining this. But as the Discussion Paper points out, there seems no doubt whatsoever that this can be achieved at less cost than is now involved. 
I commend the paper as a frank exposure of the issues involved. I believe it forms a vital basis for community discussion on the vital issues involved and for government consideration in formulating the ongoing future decisions that obviously are required if we are to obtain the best value for our health dollar and a reduction over time in the proportion of our resources going into health. If we do not achieve this we will not stay healthy. We will simply strangle ourselves to death economically. 
My question is directed to the Treasurer and relates to the statement by his predecessor in the latter months of last year on the needs of small businesses. Is it a fact that that statement said, amongst other things, that the Reserve Bank would direct the trading banks to ensure that no small business was adversely affected simply because of a shortage of bank finance? Was this directive issued by the Reserve Bank and, if so, are the trading banks abiding by its terms? 
-The three Bills which we are debating- the Environment Protection (Alligator Rivers Region) Bill 1978, the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Amendment Bill 1978 and the Environment Protection (Nuclear Codes) Bill 1978- form a package of Bills now before the House. The debate on the other Bills commenced yesterday. The package of Bills forms an integrated whole and each has implications for the others. But, taken together, they deal with the need to make an early start on the mining and development of our uranium resources, whilst at the same time ensuring adequate protection of the environment of the Alligator Rivers Region, protection of the rights and legitimate interests of the Aborigines in the region, protection of the safety of persons engaged in the uranium industry, and the development of adequate safeguards to prevent proliferation of the nuclear armament industry. 
Before I turn to the detail of the Bills before the House, I wish to make a few remarks about the need to develop our uranium resources. The essence of the Bills, I believe, is related to that issue. These resources are of enormous potential importance for the future economic development of our nation. Their development can earn Australia some $20 billion between now and the end of this century. These earnings, which would essentially be in the form of foreign currency. would go a long way towards removing the constraints on our development, which balance of payments difficulties may otherwise impose. 
The term 'economic development' seems to have become something of a dirty term in certain circles in recent years. The argument in these quarters has been that we should concentrate instead on improving the so-called quality of life, and that economic development is inimical to that. 
What this argument ignores is that no country can improve the quality of life and standard of living of its citizens without continuing economic development. It is only through economic development that we as a community can improve the lot of the disadvantaged persons among usthose who through no fault of their own live in poverty, those who are ill and those who are aged. It is only through economic development that we can generate the national income that is necessary to improve housing and education, develop and maintain national parks and assist those other nations in the world less fortunate than ourselves. Economic development is a sine qua non for the improvement in the quality of life of our people. It is a necessary precondition. The two are not incompatible; they are complementary. 
Our uranium resources are of enormous potential economic importance. They have no actual importance unless they are developed. If we do not develop them our standard of living and our quality of life will suffer. It will be not only our standard of living that will suffer; it will also be the standard of living of many other nations of the world, the citizens of many of which live in poverty and deprivation. We live in an energyscarce world. The oil crisis of 1973 had a major destructive effect upon most developed Western nations. This in turn led those nations to take economic policy decisions which had a highly damaging effect on many, indeed most, developing nations, thereby setting back even further their legitimate hopes and aspirations on behalf of the economic well-being of thousands of millions of people. 
If we want to see the world progress we must develop alternative sources of energy. We cannot continue to rely upon oil to the extent that we have in the past. We must learn to conserve our energy resources, particularly oil. Among other things, this means using much less oil for power generation than we have in the past. We must further develop our coal deposits. We must spend more money on solar energy research and so on. None of these things will fully meet our overall energy needs during the next 30 or so years if the world is to achieve the rate of overall economic growth necessary to improve living standards to the extent to which the overwhelming majority of the inhabitants of the globe very reasonably aspire. The only energy source which can enable us to do this over the next several decades is uranium. The world needs uranium to generate electric power. Electric power is essential for development. Nowhere is this more so than in the developing nations. 
The use of uranium for electricity generation is already an established fact of life. As the Deputy Prime Minister said recently in this chamber, there are now 194 nuclear power units with a capacity of more than 95,000 megawatts operating in 21 countries. There are 213 nuclear power units under construction in 27 countries. An additional 100 units are on firm order in 17 countries. This means that nuclear power units with a total generating capacity of 388,000 megawatts are either in operation, under construction or on firm order in 34 countries throughout the world. What amazes me about the debate in this country in relation to uranium is that those people who oppose uranium mining and the development of resources seem to be taking the view that it is a new industry. It is not a new industry. It has been in existence for more than 20 years. That is not to say that our uranium should or would be sold primarily to developing nations. Many of them would not have the infrastructure or other facilities to utilise uranium in this way. Nor would they all have the necessary sophistication or perhaps willingness to abide by the stringent safeguard provisions which the Australian Government has so rightly laid down as an essential condition of the sale of our uranium- safeguards which are more stringent than those applied by any other uranium supplier in the world. 
It is not necessarily the developing nations to which we should sell uranium; rather it is the more developed nations. If those nations utilise increasing proportions of uranium as electricity generating fuel that will ease the pressure of their demand on oil and coal for this purpose, thereby enabling the developing nations to procure those energy sources more readily and at lower cost. As a result that will facilitate the economic growth prospects of those countries. We in this Parliament have a responsibility to Australia and the rest of the world to develop our uranium resources as speedily as possible, subject, of course, to essential safeguard provisions, reasonable environmental and safety considerations and the rights and interests of the Aboriginal and other inhabitants of the areas where the reserves are located. The Bills before the House deal with all these considerations. Their general thrust deserves the support of all Australians who have an interest in the well-being not only of ourselves but also of the thousands of millions of people who live in other nations throughout the world. 

 An incident having occurred in the gallery- 

I was asked a question from the gallery. I want to see my children grow up in a world where there is growth and improvement in the quality of life. Many of these people see Australia as having a vital role to play in the development of their countries through our position as a reasonable supplier of energy resources and other raw materials. I can say only that it is a matter of dismay to me that so many honourable gentlemen opposite seem completely oblivious to their responsibilities in this respect. I find it incredible that the shadow Minister with responsibilities in relation to this matter has not yet even been to the area of these uranium deposits. Obviously had he done so he would not have made the speech that he made here today. It can only make me wonder what is the real motivation behind the actions of certain honourable gentlemen opposite. I can conclude only that for many of them the motivation is a desire to prevent development in Australia and in the poorer nations. What motivates this desire is something I will leave to the House to judge. 
There are several detailed aspects of the Bills before the House on which I wish to comment. My consideration of these matters has been greatly assisted by discussions in Darwin with senior members of the Northern Territory Assembly just three weeks ago, discussions with executives of the Ranger and Pancontinental leases in the Alligator Rivers Region and by inspections of those leases and nearby areas. Unfortunately, I did not have the opportunity to discuss these matters with representatives of the Aboriginal community, and I accept that some of my considerations of the issues may have suffered as a result. 
On the basis of my discussions in the Territory, I should like to set straight several points made by the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen).  Firstly, the honourable member talked about seepage from the Ranger operations, and I presume he meant also the Jabiluka operations. The fact is that there will be no seepage at all from either development. The problem mainly discussed is the release of tailings wastage from the tailings ponds. The fact is that with the proposals both for the Ranger and Pancontinental schemes there will be no release from the tailings ponds, with the exception of the possible need for release in the very wet wet seasons, which on the average occur once every six years at most. The release would occur at a time when the Magela Creek system was in full flood and that means a waterway system of something likevarying from one part to another- up to five miles wide and up to 30 miles or more long. The release, which would be controlled in the case of the Ranger deposits, would go through retention tanks along the way and would be only a minimal release, at a time when the river is in full flood and flush. 
Another point which I think the honourable member for Robertson made was that there would be waste and loss from the milling operations. As I understand it, that is simply not correct. Another impression which the honourable member for Robertson gave was that the area of mining operations would be large in relation to the total area about which we are talking in the subject of these Bills. 
-That certainly was the impression I got. It is worth recording and making public the fact that the total area proposed for the Kakadu National Park is 12,500 square kilometres. As the Minister said in his second reading speech, as we all on both sides of the House agree and as the honourable member for Robertson said in his remarks today, the area of the Kakadu National Park is of unique value not only to Australia but also to the world and not only to present generations but to all future generations. There is no disagreement about that. The total area proposed for mining, milling and the tailings ponds and the like - 
-It does not affect the whole region. For example, the area associated with the Ranger development is of the order of five square kilometres. I might be a little bit out in that figure, but it is approximately that. 
-Yes. He obviously has not listened to what has been said; he has not read the Bills which this debate is all about, nor has he been to the region, nor does he know the frequency of releases and the timing during the year in which any releases would be made. As I said, at most they would be made about once every six years and only at a time when the Magela Creek system would be in full flood. But another fact which the honourable member for Robertson seems to have ignored is that these matters are of concern in the sense of needing control. That is precisely what the three Bills we are debating are about. 
I commend the Government for the content in particular of the Environment Protection (Alligator Rivers Region) Bill. There is a close relationship between this Bill and the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Amendment Bill, about which I shall have something to say a little later. As the Minister said when introducing the Environment Protection (Alligator Rivers Region) Bill, which is designed to establish an office of a supervising scientist, a co-ordinating committee and a research institute for the region, it is the co-ordinating committee which will be the focal point of the system proposed by the Government for the protection of the environment from the consequences of uranium mining operations in the region. Therefore, this Committee will have a vital role to play. 
I particularly welcome the Minister's observation that many varied and at times conflicting interests in the region have to be considered and reconciled. Again, I do not think that that is a statement which would draw any disagreement from either side of the House. Certainly I fully accept it. I only make the plea, however, that the committee in its work bear fully in mind what I said earlier today about the need to get on with the job of developing our resources, I make the same plea in relation to the provisions of the Bill which ensure close collaboration between the supervising scientist and the Director of National Parks and Wildlife, who is to be responsible for the proposed Kakadu National Park. 
Under the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Amendment Bill the Director of National Parks and Wildlife is given enormous power, not only in relation to national park management and environmental considerations but also in relation to the development of uranium mining and milling. It is understandable and, I think, highly desirable that the Director does have these co-ordinated responsibilities, particularly, as the House has agreed, in view of the importance of the ecosystem of the Kakadu National Park. However, I do believe that it is quite essential that the Director should take too a balanced view in his approach to his duties. I should be interested in any comments which the Minister may make later as to how this can be ensured. 
In my recent discussions with senior members of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly it was made quite clear to me that they are gravely worried about the powers being accorded the Director. In particular they feel very strongly that the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly has been deliberately excluded from any involvement in drawing up the plan of management for the Kakadu National Park or in its subsequent administration. They obviously fear for their position in relation to the development of any further national parks in the Territory. My reading of the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Amendment Bill makes me have some sympathy with this fear. It might be that there is something in the Bill which would allay this fear and I have missed it. I would appreciate any comments which the Minister might make on this point too at a later stage. 
I am pleased to see that the Bills permit the controlled exploration for uranium and other minerals in the Kakadu National Park. What is not clear to me, however, is what would happen if this exploration were to lead to the discovery of commercial deposits. Again, I would appreciate some comment on this from the Minister in due course. The Bills before the House also provide for considerable power to be given to the Northern Land Council. I can only express the hope and the confidence that the Council and all other interested parties will work together constructively and co-operatively to further the interests of all Australians through the early controlled development of our uranium resources and the necessary protection of this remarkable ecosystem. 
I must say that some of the remarks made to me about delays which are occurring or are said to be occurring in achieving satisfactory negotiations between the Northern Land Council and the Ranger interests over compensation for the use of Aboriginal land do cause me concern. I hope that either the remarks were exaggerated or that the present differences of view can be quickly resolved because I believe it is essential that developmental work in the Alligator Rivers region uranium deposits commences during the forthcoming dry season. Time in this respect is not on Australia's side. There are other major suppliers of uranium around the world and they are selling their uranium, not all of them on terms or subject to provisions which we would consider responsible. We are losing markets at the moment, particularly in terms of small spot sales around the world. Nations which we would regard as being less responsible in their selling practices are gaining these sales. Further delays are going to heighten this problem. Subject to the points of clarification I have raised today, I fully support the Bills before the House and commend the Government for their introduction. 
-The question of the retrospective application to 16 August 1977 of the bonus shares amendment to the Income Tax Assessment Act has attracted more publicity in the media, amongst lawyers, accountants and in this chamber than any other aspect of the Bill before the Committee. I believe that is unfortunate because the Bill as a whole is of considerable importance as an exercise in blocking tax avoidance loopholes, and no one on either side of the House or in this Committee has disputed the actual measures that have been taken. It is understandable that the retrospectivity aspect has attracted much attention because a very important principle is involved. Let me say that I have a great deal of sympathy with the views expressed this afternoon by the right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon),  the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  and the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Burr).  The views on this subject closest to mine were those expressed by the honourable member for Perth  (Mr McLean). 
It is quite clear that the right honourable member for Lowe, the honourable member for 
Denison and the honourable member for Wilmot approached this matter as one of high principle. So do I. In fact, this is the most difficult matter on which I have had to search my conscience in determining my attitude since becoming a member of this Parliament  Vh  years ago. I have agonised over it for three weeks now. I know that many honourable members on both sides of the chamber- certainly on this sidehave, not because I have any truck with those who have entered into Curran schemes since 16 August 1977, or before then for that matter, but because we have here a dilemma placed upon us in choosing between breaching one of two fundamental principles. 
The first is the basic principle or presumption of non-retrospectivity in legislation. The second is that our tax system must be fair and equitable. There can surely be no question that blocking the Curran loophole is fair and equitable. It should have been done as soon as the High Court delivered its judgment in the Curran case in late 1 974. That is no less than 3! years ago. That this was not done is quite inconceivable to me and in my view it is quite unconscionable. I do not know where the fault lies. I find it difficult to absolve the Taxation Office from a large part of the blame. I find it difficult also to accept that either the Whitlam Government or this Government is blameless. Because of what can be described as none other than bad administration on the part of both governments and their advisers, we are now put in the position of having to decide which of two basically sound principles we have to breach. The Government, for reasons that I fully understand, has opted to stick with the tax equity principle and breach the non-retrospectivity principle. 
Like the honourable member for Perth, who spoke before the sitting of the Committee was suspended, I have very serious reservations about this matter. I regard the Curran case schemes as morally repugnant and I applaud all those taxpayers, lawyers, accountants and others who have refused to have a bar of them. I appreciate their strong support for the application of retrospectivity on this occasion. I must say that the views of those persons, who have acted in my opinion with more moral rectitude than those who have been a party to Curran schemes, have influenced my views on this matter considerably. Nevertheless, I believe that the principle or presumption of non-retrospectivity is of such importance that it cannot be breached simply on the ground that what is being retrospectively legislated against is morally repugnant. Morality is a subjective concept. It is difficult to gauge the morality of a nation, even though nations and their citizens must have a moral conscience if they are to survive; but no democratic nation can be run merely on the basis of the moral judgment of the government or the parliament of the day. It can be run only on the basis of those moral or other judgments being translated into decisions in the form of legislation. In other words, democratic nations can operate only on the principle of the rule of law. 
By retrospective- there are several definitions of the term- I mean the definition laid down by Buckley L.J. in 1911, namely, that legislation is retrospective if it provides that at a past date the law is to be taken to have been what it was not at that date. Legal support- that is what we are really talking about now- can be found for the Government's decision to make this part of the Bill retrospective. The Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  in his speech, which I thought was excellent, concluding the second reading debate last week quoted Lord Greene in a 1942 case involving the United Kingdom Inland Revenue Commissioners. The honourable member for Bonython  (Dr Blewett)  quoted the same case in his well-chosen remarks earlier this evening. On the basis of this case, Halsbury's  Laws of England,  third edition, volume 36 has this to say at page 425: 
Fiscal legislation is subject in general to the presumption against retrospection. 
The honourable member for Denison quoted that sentence but omitted unfortunately to quote the next sentence, which says: 
It has however been suggested that retrospection is unobjectionable in the case or provisions directed against tax evasion and the significance of the presumption in that field may therefore have diminished. 
That sentence is in relation to and is based on the case quoted by Lord Greene. The legal case which has done most to persuade me, after very long and agonising deliberation, not to vote against the application of retrospectivity on this occasion is the reasoning of Adam J. in the case of Doro v. Victorian Railways Commissioners in 1960. That is quoted in B. C. Pearce's  Statutory Interpretation in Australia,  published by Butterworths of Melbourne in 1 974. It is a very important passage. His Honour said: 
The strength of the presumption against retrospectivity in any particular case, and accordingly the ease or difficulty with which it may be overcome, must, I would think, depend on the nature and degree of the injustice which would result from giving a statute a retrospective operation. Where a palpable injustice would result, the presumption should be given its fullest weight. In such a case it is but common sense to require the clearest indication of legislative intention that such an unjust result was intended. On the other hand, where to give retrospective operation to a statute might be considered to work some injustice to one party but is clearly required to rectify a manifest injustice to others, there would, on principle, seem little reason for giving much weight to the presumption. 
I believe that  His  Honour's reasoning on that occasion has much relevance to the present situation, but I must make it clear that I can avoid specifically opposing clause 3 (2), as drafted, only for extremely special reasons, and then only with the very greatest difficulty. Retrospective legislation is bad legislation. It undermines the rule of law and the confidence that individual citizens, in going about their normal daily affairs, can have in the law. I therefore place great stress on the Treasurer's pledge in this chamber last week that the decision to breach the basic principle of non-retrospectivity in this case in no way can be taken to imply any rejection of the Government's commitment to the principle of non-retrospectivity. Retrospectivity on this occasion must in no way be taken as a precedent. Again, I welcome what the Treasurer had to say on this point last week. 
The final point that I must make takes me back to what I said before about the delay in presenting this legislation subsequent to the finding in the Curran case. The Government should never have been placed in the situation in which it now finds itself, and we should never have been placed in the situation in which we find ourselves, of being obliged to take a decision of this nature. If one thing is clear it is that the Government must take every step available to it to ensure that such a sorry situation does not arise again. 
-I ask the Minister for Health: Is it a fact that the Government has received very many representations from members of the community expressing great concern at the cost of abortions being covered by medical benefit funds? Is it a fact that the Government has been giving careful consideration to these representations for several months? Has the Government yet reached a decision on this matter? If so, can the Minister inform the House as to the nature of the decision? If not, can he assure the House that a decision will be taken in the very near future? 

 -Mr Speaker, on behalf of the citizens of Ballarat I wish to join the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  and other speakers in expressing our sadness at the passing of  Sir Robert  Menzies and extending to Dame Pattie Menzies and her family our deep sympathy on their loss. The citizens of Ballarat held a memorial service for Robert Gordon Menzies last Sunday evening in the church in which he worshipped as a boy. It was a fitting service for several reasons, but particularly because much of Robert Menzies' formative years were closely linked with Ballarat and district, and throughout his entire life he continued a close association with and appreciation for the city. It is to this association that I would like to refer briefly today, because Robert Menzies' grandfather settled in Ballarat on his migration from Dumfries in Scotland in 1855, and it was in Ballarat that  Sir Robert's  father was born.  His  mother was also from the district.  Her  name was Kate Sampson. She was born in Creswick, a small town only 10 miles from Ballarat.  Robert  Menzies' family lived in Ballarat for many years, his father being a coach painter at that time. His three elder brothers and sister were born there. His parents did not in fact move from Ballarat until about two years before his birth in 1894. 
Several of Robert Menzies' early school years were spent in Ballarat. He attended Humphrey Street primary school, which still exists and which is only 200 yards from my electorate office. He then attended Grenville College before winning scholarships to Wesley College in Melbourne and from there to Melbourne University. While attending school in Ballarat he lived with his widowed grandmother in a small cottage in the centre of the city. Robert Menzies was in later years a very frequent visitor to Ballarat, a city of which he said 'I always come to with pleasure and leave with reluctance'- a city of which in his book  Afternoon Light  he said 'had many years ago developed a civic sense of beauty, the products of which are still notable '. 
I had the privilege of working within close range of  Sir Robert  Menzies during the final two years of his Prime Ministership, when I was private secretary at that time to his much-loved and loyal  deputy,  the late Harold Holt. Even though I was a young and very junior cog in the machine of government at that time, I shall always recall with great gratitude that  Sir Robert  Menzies still took the trouble to speak to me when he saw me. He was the same with all his own staff and with all those with whom he came into contact. In passing, on this occasion I would also like to extend my sympathy to Miss Hazel Craig who was a devoted secretary to  Sir Robert  Menzies over a very long period. 
Whilst mourning the passing of  Sir Robert,  I do not believe that this should be a time for grief; rather, I believe that this is a time for pride and for giving thanks. As a citizen of Ballarat, I take pride in the fact that Robert Menzies' life was so closely linked with my city. As a citizen of our nation, I give thanks that we were blessed with having in our midst a man of such ability, wisdom and dedication to improving the well being of all the citizens of Australia. He was a man to whom all Australians will say 'Thank you. We will not easily forget you because it is unlikely we will see a man of your stature in the fullest meaning of that term pass our way again for a very longtime'. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Health. I refer the Minister to my question to him several weeks ago about the real concern felt by many Australians regarding the funding of abortions through hospital and medical benefit funds. I ask: Does the Minister recall that in his reply at that time he stated that he hoped to be in a position to announce the Government's decision in the near future? Is it a fact that the Minister's announcement last week of changes to the health insurance system was designed inter alia to constitute the Government's decision on the question of abortion funding via the path of optional deductibles? If so, can he inform the House as to how effective he expects this might be in dealing with the genuine concern felt by so many people on this sensitive issue? 
-Before commenting on the substance of the Bill I want to take up a couple of the points raised by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  and in doing so I hope to give the lie to the implications behind the amendment that the Opposition has moved. The honourable member for Gellibrand spoke about the attitude of the International Monetary Fund and, in particular, of its Managing Director,  Mr Witteveen,  on various issues. I also have read most of the literature that the honourable member obviously has read but somewhat surprisingly I have arrived at different conclusions from his. For example, the honourable member for Gellibrand gives the impression that the IMF has abandoned the importance of inflation as a major issue affecting future growth in the world economy and in individual countries, and that it has switched from a policy of fighting inflation first to a policy of putting growth first. Certainly it is correct that the International Monetary Fund has called for concerted action to increase the level of world economic growth but it is also true that the Managing Director of the Fund,  Mr Witteveen,  in his address to the last Interim Committee, said: 
Rates of inflation are still much too high to be considered acceptable in the great majority of member countries. 

 Mr Witteveen has gone to great pains to point out that circumstances differ in different countries, so any implication that he or the IMF is saying that every country ought to abandon as its No. 1 priority the fight against inflation and switch to a growth-oriented policy is, quite frankly, sheer nonsense. 
The implication which came through to me from what the honourable member was saying was that we ought to abandon our economic strategy and switch to one which does not have the fight against inflation as its No. 1 priority. There is nothing at all in what the IMF has said in relation to a country such as Australia, or for that matter what the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, which has specifically endorsed our economic policy, has said, which in any way contradicts the basic economic policy thrust of this Government. What the honourable member for Gellibrand convenientiy seems to neglect is that there is a fundamental link between the rate of inflation in a country and the ability of that country to control and reduce unemployment and to stimulate economic growth. He knows as well as every other member of this House knows that the problems we have in generating economic growth at the moment and in reducing the level of unemployment stem inexorably from the policies of the Labor Government in 1974 and 1975 when our basic aggregates and economic aggregates got out of line through deliberately induced and stimulated unreal wage increases. We are still living with those increases. The Managing Director of the IMF,  Mr Witteveen,  made another very important point in his statement which again the honourable member for Gellibrand ignored.  Mr Witteveen  said: 
Particularly deserving of consideration as a means of stimulating economic activity is the possible utility of tax reductions for the purpose of influencing wage and price behaviour. 
He went on to say: 
The stimulus provided through tax reductions generally seems less likely to induce new price pressures than additional Government spending. 
If that is not an endorsement of the fiscal strategy that this Government has pursued consistently since it came to office I do not know what it is. For the first time in Australia's history this Government has taken deliberate measures to control the rate of increase in taxation to ensure that there are not the inflation induced rip-offs of taxation that have occurred throughout our history. In so doing $3 te billion in personal income tax alone has been saved in the last 2  Vi  years. It that is not a major stimulus to economic activity then it is difficult to find what greater stimulus one could provide. 
The Bill before the House has two main purposes. The first is to give parliamentary assent to the latest amendment to the articles of the IMF and the second is to enable Australia to increase its quota subscription to the Fund as proposed under the Fund 's sixth general review of quotas and, linked to that to increase our subscription to the capital stock of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. I noted with some interest the final paragraph of the second reading speech by the Minister for Special Trade Representations  (Mr Garland),  on behalf of the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  in which he commended the Bill to the House and drew our attention to the desirability of early approval of the Bill in order to enable the Treasurer to exercise the proposed increased voting rights for AustraUa at the next regular election of executive directors of the Fund and the Bank in September. With due respect to the Minister, I feel that that is being a little cheeky. The fact is, and here I agree with what the honourable member for Gellibrand said, that we are putting through this Parliament in the last week of this session an important Bill to which I would like to have seen more consideration given, not so much because of its content as for the opportunity it provides for a debate in this chamber on international economic and monetary issues. We have far too little scope for such debates and as a result we tend to ignore and neglect the fact that what happens in the world around us and in the international economic community is of fundamental importance to the health of the domestic economy. 
I find it surprising that the Bill has come to the House at this late stage, given that the Board of Governors' resolution relating to the amendment to the articles of the Fund was passed on 30 April 1976 and that the Board's resolution concerning the quota increase was passed on 22 March 1 976. It other words, the Government has had more than two years to get this Bill into the House. I think it is undesirable that it has been left for so long. I hope that that situation will not occur on future occasions, particularly in relation to further quota increases which will be coming up again in the not all that distant future. 
The major elements of the Bill are unexceptionable. The first element relates to the amendments to the articles of the IMF which, as I have said, is a fait accompli. I shall deal later with the content of these amendments. The second element- the quota increase for Australia in the Fund- is not the best deal that one would have liked for Australia, as was mentioned in the second reading speech of the Minister, but it would, of course, simply be cutting off our nose to spite our face if at this stage we were to reject such a quota increase. 
The importance of a quota in the International Monetary Fund is very considerable. It has two main features of significance. The first, of course, is that the size of our quota in the Fund determines how much we can borrow from the Fund when we have balance of payments problems of a temporary nature. The second and perhaps the more important for a country such as Australia is that it determines the number of voting rights that we have in the Fund. That, in turn, determines whether we have a seat on the Board of Executive Directors of the International Monetary Fund. 
It is often not realised that we do have a seat on the Board of the Fund, which consists of only 20 Executive Directors, by virtue of the size of our quota. We do not represent just Australia in the International Monetary Fund: We lead a constituency which comprises not only Australia but also New Zealand, Papua New Guinea, the Philippines and Western Samoa. That is a very interesting grouping. It is a very important grouping for a country in our region of the world. It enables us to put into the deliberations of the International Monetary Fund a more balanced view than perhaps would be the case if we were representing our interests alone. Therefore, I believe it is vitally important to have a seat on the Board of the Executive Directors of the Fund. I am very pleased that the quota increase that we have attained on this occasion, even though it is not as large as we may have wished, almost certainly appears to enable us to continue to sit on the Board and to have an executive director on the Board. 
The Executive Directors are, as their name implies, full-time directors who are responsible for guiding the Fund in its day-to-day operations and in its policy deliberations, subject, of course, to the overriding guidance of the governors of the Fund, who in most cases are finance ministers or Treasurers of their respective countries, and through them, the national parliaments that they represent. We need to maintain our quota. As I have said, we have slipped a bit on this occasion, but for good and valid reasons, I think, because the latest adjustments to the quota shares in the Fund have taken account of the increased role of the oil exporting countries in international trade. On this occasion their quota share was doubled. As a result, it was agreed that the quota share of the developing countries should be maintained. In fact the shares of the industrialised countries as a whole were reduced in this sixth quota review. The seventh quota review which comes up before too long is, I should hope, likely to be of a more equi-proportional nature than this review. I was pleased to note in the communique following the recent meeting of the interim committee that some members of the Fund- I hope that we were one of these- have asked that the criteria for quota increases be reconsidered, because from time to time countries such as Australia appear to run the risk of slipping in their quota allocation because of the criteria adopted. 
In passing, I should like to make brief mention of, and to compliment the Executive Directors that Australia has had on the International Monetary Fund over the years. There have been some very famous and illustrious names on the Board of the Fund. These people have contributed in a very significant way to the deliberations of what is perhaps the most important international financial and economic body in the world. I mention names such as  Sir Roland  Wilson and Leslie Bury, who were on the Board in the early days. In more recent times  Mr Pete  Garlan,  Mr John  Stone,  Mr Lindsay  Brand and presently  Mr R.  J. Whitelaw have represented Australia. As I have said, all of these gentiemen have made very important contributions in an international sense and also from the point of view of maintaining and furthering Australia's interest in the international economic and financial arena. 
The importance of the International Monetary Fund brings me back to the amended Articles. The amendments are many, but the most important relates to article IV. As is said in the Minister's second reading speech, the essence of amended Article IV, which deals with exchange rates, is to abandon requirements as to the exchange arrangements adopted by member countries and, instead, to define principles which members are committed to follow in their exchange rate policy. 
Amended Article IV sets out the general principles for the orderly operation of the international monetary system and for surveillance by the Fund of the Exchange rate and external policies of individual member countries. At the same time, the new Article IV recognises that stability in exchange markets is largely dependent upon the adoption of appropriate domestic economic policies by member countries. That, I think, is a terribly important point because over the last decade or so we have seen very considerable instability in international monetary markets and foreign exchange rate regimes. I believe that in large measure that has stemmed from the inability of countries to conduct their own domestic economic policies as efficiently as one would hope. It also stems from an inability of nations to co-operate as closely as they should in the concerted move towards international equilibrium. I believe it is impossible to overstate the importance of the relationship between sound domestic economic policies and international equilibrium and growth. 
The amendments to the Fund's Articles, to which the Parliament is now being asked to agree, are the culmination of years of debate within the Fund and elsewhere, for example, in the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, summit meetings of world leaders and the like. As I said, the amendments have been developed in a period of exchange rate instability unprecedented in the experience of most of us in this House. 
-Yes, due very largely to inflation on a world-wide scale, and differential rates at that, between different major countries. 
The 1970s have seen traumatic and fundamental changes in the international and economic monetary order. The starting point for the exchange rate stability can perhaps best be dated from 1971, but the root causes go back much earlier than that- in particular to the early 1960s and then on into the late 1960s when the US was running huge overall balance of payments deficits. Of course this was okay as long as the United States' trade position remained strong; but when this weakened, the world lost confidence in the dollar and in its value. It was largely for that reason that since 1971 when the US, for the first time in 40 years, abolished convertibility of the US dollar into gold we have seen remarkable changes in the whole structure of the international exchange rate regime. 
Time does not permit me to go into the situation of all countries so I shall refer to Australia 's situation between 1971 and the present time. Comparing those dates, the Australian dollar has devalued, or depreciated, against the US dollar by 5 per cent. Against the yen it has devalued by 32 per cent; against the deutsche mark by 39 per cent; and, by contrast, it has appreciated against sterling by 33 per cent. These are very major movements. The same can be said about exchange rate movements in most other countries vis a vis relative currencies of major countries throughout the world. 
What is intended in the amendment to the Articles of the Fund is to permit the greater flexibility in exchange rates which I think the world has inevitably come to accept. It is a flexibility which has very grave potential dangers unless members of the international community act responsibly and co-operatively in maintaining as much as possible exchange rate stability, lack of competitive devaluations and so on. The International Monetary Fund has a very important role to play in achieving this co-operation. Although the amendments to the Articles do not constitute a major international monetary reform, in the world in which we live today they are an important advance in international financial relationships. I therefore commend the Bill and support its contents. 
-I direct a question to the Acting Prime Minister. I refer to the recent welcome announcement by the Prime Minister of the establishment of the  Sir Robert  Menzies Memorial Trust to commemorate the memory of the greatest public figure in Australia's history. Is it a fact that the Prime Minister announced that the head of the national committee for the Trust is to be  Sir William  Vines? Is it also a fact that  Sir William  Vines was described in another place last week as a proven fraud and charlatan? Will the Acting Prime Minister take this opportunity publicly to refute this cowardly, untrue and vicious attack? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 2 June 1978: 
What is the average teacher/non-teacher staffing ratio in (a) universities, (b) colleges of advanced education and (c) technical &amp; further education colleges located in (i) metropolitan and (ii) non-metropolitan areas. 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. I refer to the Government's August loan, which closed yesterday. Is the Treasurer able to give the House details of the outcome of the loan and the implications it has for the Government's economic strategy, which is a strategy that is widely accepted by the great majority of the Australian community? 
-The Budget brought down by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  in the House last week was a courageous Budget, a responsible Budget and an economically sound Budget. It was a Budget which was designed to help deal with the problems which Australia is still facing- problems which will not be overcome in any sustainable way without a good deal of effort and some short term sacrifices by all Australians. The Treasurer said quite clearly in his Budget Speech that difficult and unpopular decisions had had to be taken in framing this year's Budget. He laid that clearly on the line. He also pointed out equally clearly that the Government itself had been severely disappointed at one or more of the decisions it had had to take; in particular, the decision to impose a temporaryone year- small surcharge on existing tax scales even though the increase in the tax payments resulting from this temporary measure will still be nowhere near as large as the tax reductions which have benefited all taxpayers this year as a result of the Government's restructuring of tax scales on 1 February this year and the latest tax indexation adjustments applying from last month. 
Despite the fact that some difficult, unpopular and disappointing decisions have been necessary on this occasion, the Australian community generally has accepted these decisions as necessary. The people of Australia are much more responsible than they are sometimes given credit for, particularly by honourable members opposite. The people know that one cannot get a quart out of a pint pot. They know that the road ahead is not an easy one. They know that the Government, if it is to act responsibly, cannot always act popularly. They want their government to act responsibly and they know that this Government has acted responsibly in this Budget, that it has acted equitably, that it has tried to share the burdens fairly. 
The demonstrations in Brisbane, Sydney and Melbourne this week have not been an accurate reflection of the attitude of the Australian people towards the Budget. The demonstrations were carefully contrived, organised and inspired by the Labor Party. To describe them, as the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  did, as a spontaneous feeling of disaffection within the community is sheer nonsense. No demonstrations as carefully organised, as politically motivated as this week's demonstrations could conceivably be regarded as spontaneous. The Labor Party is trying to take government in Australia onto the streets. It appears almost as if it is deliberately attempting to wreck our most cherished possessions- democratic government and the very institution of parliament. The Labor Party must not be allowed to succeed. But what have the protests been about? To hear the Leader of the Opposition speak one would have the impression that the Budget was brutally contractionary. The Leader of the Opposition ignores completely the fact that this year the Government will spend $2, 800m more than it will raise in taxes and charges. The Leader of the Opposition says that the Budget is inappropriate to the needs of Australia today; but he has, either consciously or unconsciously, taken an each-way bet in his alternative proposals. It is these proposals that I want mainly to deal with this evening. 
If the Opposition 's  arithmetic in the  costing of its proposals is not correct, the inflationary consequences of the proposals are horrifying. If, on the other hand, its arithmetic is correctwhich, as I hope to show later, it is not- the changes proposed do not in their totality add up to as major a change in the overall Budget strategy as the Opposition suggests, except that it would make it all the more difficult for the strategy to be achieved. There would be, however, one major change in direction. That is that Labor's proposals would viciously attack the business sector at the very time when that sector is in need of real encouragement if it is to generate income and to create jobs for all Australians. Let there be no doubt about it; the more closely one looks at Labor's alternative Budget proposals the more apparent it becomes that they are designed to return Australia to the big government, big spending, multinational bashing era of the Whitlam Government. 
Let me turn to some of the specific proposals put forward by the Leader of the Opposition on Tuesday evening. Labor has attempted to generate great rage about what it sees as the dismantling of Medibank standard. Yet the Leader of the Opposition said on Tuesday evening that his argument in relation to the changes is not on doctrine but merely on the practical mechanisms that might make the new arrangements work. Having accepted the changes in concept, he then called them a fraud. Having called them a fraud, he then announced that Labor would retain the changes. What nonsense is that? The simple fact is that the changes to the health fund arrangements will benefit every person in the community who has been paying contributions or the levy in recent years. The levy has been abolished. Private fund schedules will show major decreases in contribution rates when they are published next month. People now paying $ 10 or $ 1 1 a week are likely to see this figure fall by several dollars a week, in the same way that present levy payers will experience a reduction in the amount they pay. 
The Opposition would remove the temporary one-year surcharge on personal income tax and replace it with a permanent tax on resources and a permanent capital gains tax. The proposed resources tax would be totally confiscatory if it raised the revenue which the Leader of the Opposition claimed it would. The same situation applies to the Oppostition's proposal to tax the profits made by oil companies as a result of the changes made last year in oil pricing policy. There would be a total confiscation of these profits- profits which were designed to encourage further exploration for oil in Australia and thereby to reduce our increasing reliance on imported oil. Labor would completely wipe out this encouragement. Labor professes to be concerned about our energy problems. This particular proposal by Labor would greatly increase those problems. 
There is another aspect of the statement made by the Leader of the Opposition which I find very confusing in this respect. He spoke about a resources tax but he also spoke about an oil levy. If it is proposed by means of a levy to cream off or to collect- this is what his arithmetic would mean- all that the oil producers have gained from last year's pricing policy, the money cannot also be collected by means of a resources tax. So the Leader of the Opposition, in his arithmetic, has double counted. Significantly more than the $340m which is the gross gain to the companies would be collected in Commonwealth tax and in Commonwealth-State royalties without the imposition of a levy of the kind proposed by the Leader of the Opposition. 
Labor would not provide any of the Government's committed contribution to the Ranger uranium development. This is not a budgetary decision by the Opposition; it is a decision motivated entirely by its unwillingness to see any development of Australia's uranium deposits- a development which will greatly strengthen our balance of payments, which will provide energy for peaceful purposes to energy starved countries, and which will give us an opportunity to exercise our influence in those councils of the world grappling with the problems of nuclear proliferation and safeguards. The decision by Labor not to permit the development of Australia's uranium deposits is a blow against world peace and a blow against the living standards of those hundreds of millions of people in other countries less fortunate than our own- people living in poverty and in deprivation. 
Labor would make the task of economic management that much more difficult by abolishing the excise increases on spirits, beer and cigarettes. In its bleating about these increases it ignores the fact that these are the first such increases since the present Government came to office nearly three years ago. It also conveniently omits to mention that these charges went up enormously while it was in government. 
Labor claims that the measures proposed in the Budget will take $ 12 a week from the typical worker earning $200 a week. That simply is not true. Firstly, the estimate seems much too high if it is based on some of the items which have been increased. But what is even more important, and even more misleading, Labor completely ignores the savings to workers in the form of considerably lower health fund contributions and the availability of cheaper motor cars. Thirdly, it completely ignores the benefits that will accrue to all Australians in the course of the next 12 months as the rate of inflation falls further and as it is accompanied by a further fall in interest rates. 
Although Labor says that it would abolish the temporary income tax surcharge, it has said nothing at all about what it would do in relation to tax indexation. The House will recall that it was the present Government which introduced tax indexation for the first time in our history. Tax indexation protects all taxpayers from inflation-induced tax rip-offs. It is abundantly clear from the Labor Party's omission of any mention of tax indexation that this major beneficial feature would be in great jeopardy if it were ever to return to office. 
Another major initiative of the present Government was its introduction of a generous investment allowance. This allowance has had a significant effect in stimulating new investment activity since its introduction. Labor has said that it would immediately abolish the allowance because it claims that it is simply a handout to big business. The Opposition is wrong in that regard. The investment allowance has benefited business of all sizes- small, medium and large. Labor's proposal is merely another indication of its whole anti-business philosophy. It simply appears not to be able to stand the private sector. At every turn it seeks to frustrate the private sector but at the same time it laments the lack of additional job opportunities in the private sector. I submit that Labor cannot have it both ways, even though it may try to do so. 
The Leader of the Opposition was wrong on Tuesday evening not merely in relation to the investment allowance. There were many other inaccuracies in his speech. There were so many in fact that they must have been deliberate. One of the most blatant was his statement that the Budget aims to tax lump sum retirement payments. That is simply not true, as the Leader of the Opposition well knows. The Budget Speech stated quite unequivocally: 
There will be no change to the existing situation where superannuation and other retirement benefits are taxable as to only 5 per cent of the amount of the lump sum benefit. 
I want to emphasise this point because the Leader of the  Opposition's deliberately untrue  statement has caused a great deal of unnecessary concern to many thousands of working people. However, where the Leader of the Opposition was most seriously and dangerously wrong in his speech was in relation to the economic assessment of his proposals. The Leader of the Opposition asserted bluntly that the net effect of his revenue and expenditure proposals - 
-They are more than rubbery. He said that his proposal would increase the Government's Budget deficit this year by $840m. The deficit, on Labor's arithmetic, would be $3,650m. That is incorrect. In particular, the Leader of the Opposition said that he would raise additional revenue totalling $950m. Of that amount $150m would be raised by means of a resources tax, $300m by means of a capital gains tax, $100m by means of taxing family trusts, and $400m by means of the abolition of the investment allowance. The truth is that even if Labor introduced all these proposals overnight it would raise virtually not one dollar of additional revenue in this financial year. In other words, Labor's proposals would not increase the deficit by $840m in 1978-79; the increase would be $ 1,790m, making a total deficit for the year of $4,600m. The consequences of such a deficit would be horrendous for this nation. Of central importance to the future wellbeing of this nation is the Budget deficit, and the financial requirements in terms of financing that deficit. In that regard, I wish to read a short passage from the report of the Reserve Bank of Australia which was released last week. 
Yes,  Mr Hawke  is a member of the Board of the Reserve Bank, and that makes these comments all the more important. The report states: 
In present circumstances, achieving an appropriately restraining overall domestic policy environment without putting stress on the balance of payments, and on domestic interest rates, requires a balanced mix of policy in which the budget deficit is held under tight rein. 
The report also states: 
The situation calls for a continuation of the firm and steady approach to these matters - 
That approach has been evident in the past two or three years.  . . this is consistent with continuation of the adjustments which are necessary if the Australian economy is to move further along the path of sustainable recovery in 1978-79. 
I submit that the Budget as presented by the Treasurer last week is fully in accord with the aspirations and the requirements of the Australian economy. That could not be so under the Labor proposals. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Debate interrupted. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Has the Australian Ambassador to Indonesia,  Mr Critchley,  recently visited East Timor? If so, has he submitted a report on that visit to the Government? In view of reports of widespread malnutrition in East Timor, is the Government prepared to provide further humanitarian assistance to the people of East Timor? 
-Is the Treasurer aware of the fact that representatives of the building industry and in particular the Housing Industry Associations are claiming that the Government proposes to alter the tax position of sub-contractors for tax purposes as from 1 November 1978? Is he further aware that the latest newsletter of the Housing Industry Association in Victoria claims that this proposal will lead to the total collapse of the building industry as we know it today, and that to have pay-as-you-earn tax deducted for sub-contractors in the building industry would add vast sums to the cost of building and would destroy the independence and the existence of sub-contractors? Are the fears of the building industry justified? Are the new tax arrangements to apply as from 1 November 1978? Will the Treasurer confirm to the House the assurance that he has already given me personally that no changes in the tax arrangements applying to subcontractors in the building industry will be made without adequate prior discussion with the industry? 
-We have heard again today from the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  yet another negative tirade which was full of unsubstantiated smears, innuendoes and deliberate mistruths which have now, sadly I am afraid, become the trademark of the honourable gentleman. For example, he spoke about broken promises on tax cuts, a promise which he knows as well as I know has not been broken. The level of income tax since the last Federal election - 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, if you so wish, I withdraw. The tax cut point that the Leader of the Opposition made, however, is totally incorrect. So also is the point that he made about the Primary Industry Bank rates which are generally acknowledged now with very few exceptions as being concessional and meeting the promises that the Government gave to the rural sector when the legislation was introduced. I can refer to other examples of the speech of the Leader of the Opposition to support what I said about truth. Although it may not be his trademark, a lot of people are getting sick and tired of the deliberate distortions and misleading statements which are made on a regular basis by him. 
I was astonished that the Opposition has raised this subject today as one for serious debate given the Labor Party's performance on interest rates when it was in government. The very words of the matter of public importance show yet another misleading approach by the Opposition. The matter of public importance claims a failure by the Government to meet its promise to reduce interest rates by 2 per cent over 12 months. Firstly, despite what the honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr Kerin)  may say in trying, in a tortuous fashion, to equate predictions with promises- the most odd equation I have heard for a long time- what was said on interest rates was not a promise; it was a confident prediction based on the effects of the Government's economic policies. Secondly, I think that the statement of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  related to the end of 1978, and that period, of course, is not yet up. Once again the Leader of the Opposition and the Opposition generally are being misleading in the words used in this matter of public importance. 
Let us look at the actual record. The long term bond rate has come down by more than 1  Vi  per cent since August 1977. That is a good record. There has been a very worthwhile fall in government bond rates. With 2Vi months of 1978 still to go, the fall will not be far short of what the Prime Minister and the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  predicted late in 1977. The fall in official interest rates has led to an easing in private sector rates. The Treasurer in his remarks cited some of the falls which have occurred. I think that they bear repeating. The rates on longer term finance company debentures have fallen by up to 1.5 percentage points. Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd recently announced its debenture issue with a long term rate below 10 per cent, the first such corporate issue below 10 per cent since 1973. One could quote other examples from the Treasurer. 
It is interesting to compare the quite significant rate reductions since August 1977 with the movement which occurred while Labor was in office between 1972 and 1975. In that period government bond rates rose by approximately 75 per cent, interest rates on savings bank housing loans rose by about 50 per cent and the trading bank overdraft rates rose from 7% per cent to 1 1  Yi  per cent- again a rise of about 50 per cent. Why did these increases occur while Labor was in office? They occurred simply because the economic policies which Labor pursued had the inevitable effect of pushing inflation, and with it of course interest rates, to unprecedented levels in Australia. Our whole cost and price structure became incredibly distorted with the disastrous consequences we remember all too well. Unemployment in 1975 rose more than at any other time in our history. The economic engines of the nation were grinding to a halt; indeed, they were going into reverse. Let no one in this House forget- certainly no one outside this House should or will forget- that when Labor was in office interest rates in this country went right through the roof at a tragic cost to every Australian- the employer, small businessman, young married couples seeking to build or buy a home, the workers and the housewives. The Government's achievement in working towards a correction of this disastrous situation and a return to economic stability and sanity has been remarkable. 
What hypocrisy, what mealy-mouthing, for the Leader of the Opposition to come into this chamber and whinge and whine about whether the interest rate reduction in the past 12 months or so has been of the magnitude of 2 per cent or 1 per cent. He knows full well that had Labor still been in government this nation would now be flat broke as it nearly was in December 1975 after three years of Labor's economic vandalism. The Leader of the Opposition was the economic architect for the latter part of that period. The Opposition well knows- as do the people of Australia- that interest rates have fallen in the past year only as a result of sound, steady, responsible and courageous economic management by the Fraser Government. 
Of course, as the Treasurer acknowledged, not all that we would like to be achieved has been achieved. Unemployment remains a major problem. Inflation is still too high and so are interest rates. Economic growth is not moving ahead quite as fast as we would like either. But we on this side of the House do not hide these facts. We try to do something constructive about them, through investment allowances, export expansion grants, training and retraining schemes, and reductions in taxation, to name just a few measures. All of these positive stimulatory measures have been taken within the overall framework of reducing the Budget deficit. If the Budget deficit is not reduced there is no way in the world that further significant interest rate reductions will be possible. 
What did the Leader of the Opposition propose in his recent alternative budget? He proposed measures which would have increased the Government's Budget deficit this year by $ 1,750m to a figure of $4,600m. What would this have done to interest rates? It would have put them right back in the area of 'cloud cuckoo land' into which they soared while Labor was in government. Despite what the honourable member for Werriwa might say, all responsible economic commentators agree with this. Even  Mr Hawke  agrees with it. As a member of the Reserve Bank Board, he subscribed to the Bank's recent annual report which among other things said: 
In present circumstances, achieving an appropriately restraining overall domestic policy environment without putting stress on the balance of payments, and on domestic interest rates, requires a balanced mix of policy in which the Budget deficit is held under tight rein. 
I challenge the Leader of the Opposition to state just where he does stand in relation to interest rates. I doubt that he could give a consistent answer. Everything about his performance during his period as Leader of the Opposition, particularly his statements on economic matters, has been consistently ill-conceived. He has, I am afraid, become a destructive knocker. He has joined his other colleagues on the benches opposite in being completely negative in his approach to economic matters. We have not heard one responsible, constructive suggestion from the Opposition in the life of this Parliament. Today's performance by the Opposition and the hypocrisy with which this so-called matter of public importance was raised and argued is yet another example of the speciousness of the Opposition's overall economic performance. What we need is an Opposition which can assist the Government and the rest of the community in getting Australia back on the rails. Regrettably, we do not have such an Opposition. 
-Tonight I want to bring to the attention of the House a matter which has not attracted much publicity in the media up to date but which I believe is of vital importance to the future of education in Australia. I refer to the current High Court challenge by an organisation named Defence of Government Schools, or more commonly known as DOGS, against the Federal Government's right to fund independent schools in Australia. The matter has a long history but somewhat surprisingly appears to raise its head mainly during election campaigns. As the House may be aware, there is to be a very important State Government by-election in my electorate on 28 October. Whether this latest flurry on the matter is due, as the publication  News Weekly  claims in its 1 1 October 1978 issue, to the existence in the ranks of DOGS people such as Bill Hartley and John Halfpenny is something I am not competent to judge. 
The present situation goes back to 1973 when a group of Victorians obtained the Victorian Attorney-General's fiat to seek to invalidate in the High Court the validity of the Commonwealth Acts under which grants are provided for non-government schools. The action is being taken on the basis that section 1 16 of the Constitution prohibits such payment. The plaintiffthat is, DOGS- made no serious attempt to prosecute the action until early 1977. I understand that there were serious technical defects in legal documents originally lodged by DOGS and that no serious attempt to rectify this problem was made until early 1977. Since then, after the statement of claims was brought up-to-date, there have been a number of developments mainly directed towards the parties attempting to reach agreement on matters of fact preliminary to the issues of principle being considered by the court. 
It may be of interest to the House to have a brief account of the two major moves which DOGS has made towards establishing facts which it regards as relevant to the action. Firstly, DOGS requested in 1977 that the Commonwealth agree to discovery, production and inspection by the plaintiff of documents in the Commonwealth's possession relative to the case. The documents sought were principally those related to the administration of the Acts under challenge and which would demonstrate the means of transmission of funds to nongovernment schools; secondly, whether various characteristics of non-government schools could be established in a way to support DOGS claim. In May 1978 counsel for DOGS sought the defendant's agreement to a draft agreement of facts pursuant - 
-As the House will be aware, there is a by-election in Ballarat for the State Upper House in Victoria this Saturday. An extraordinary number of Australian Labor Party personalities have come to pay homage to our great city. Yesterday we had the pleasure of a visit from the Premier of New South Wales. He was a little late in getting to 
Ballarat because of the immense industrial problems that New South Wales has, I might note, under a Labor Government which claims to be able to co-operate with the trade union movement. However, he was late. As I understand  Sir Henry  Bolte said on a television broadcast in Victoria tonight, the Premier ran in and ran out. 'In fact', said  Sir Henry,  'the only thing he did not do was walk on water and that was only because he did not have the time '. 
We also have had frequent visits from the Leader of the Australian Labor Party in Victoria,  Mr Wilkes.  In his visit to Ballarat on Tuesday, he opened the annual conference of the Victorian branch of the Australian Textile Workers Union. Some of the statements that he made about unemployment in the textile industry and the causes for it were reported in the local newspaper in Ballarat. In my view they were a little short of libellous. Certainly, to say that he was deliberately misleading would be to put the most generous interpretation on his remarks.  Mr Wilkes  appears not to remember that it was the Labor Government which deliberately and knowingly caused massive unemployment in the clothing, textile and footwear industries as a result of its 25 per cent tariff cut in 1973. He also appears to have forgotten the massive disruption to production, and therefore employment, as a result of the wild wages splurge in 1973 and 1 974, deliberately encouraged by the then Labor Government. 
I also wonder whether  Mr Wilkes  has forgotten that during the Labor period in office the number of persons registered for employment in Ballarat increased about threefold and that in one year alone- 1975- unemployment in the city of Ballarat rose by 100 per cent.  Mr Wilkes  also seemed to have forgotten in his address that the present Liberal Government has imposed quite severe quota restrictions on imports of clothing, textiles and footwear in an attempt to stop the rot that was caused by the policies of the previous Labor Government and to provide employment in the industries concerned. 

 Mr Wilkes also made the assertion, which I found absolutely staggering, that trade unionists fare better under a Labor government than under Liberal governments and that relationships in the industrial relations area are more harmonious when Labor governments are in office.  Mr Wran's  problems in New South Wales this week and in recent weeks seem to give the lie to that assertion. Quite obviously,  Mr Wilkes  has also conveniently forgotten that industrial unrest in Australia was higher in 1 975 under a Labor Government than at any other time in our history. He also neglected to mention that in Ballarat in the past two years the Liberal Government has done more, I believe, to strengthen the rights of individual trade unionists than any other government in a generation. He preached consultation with the trade union movement. But the last Labor Government cut off almost all communication with trade unions other than those extreme left wing unions which have had and continue to have such a large influence on the operations of the Labor Government. 
-by leave-I would like, very briefly, to say how pleased I have been to be a member of the Select Committee on Tourism and to reiterate the statements of appreciation already made for the work and the chairmanship of the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Jull)  and before him, in the previous Parliament,  Mr Duke  Bonnett who was then member for Herbert. They have both been tremendous chairmen and I think that the Committee has benefited greatly from their leadership. I should also like to pay a tribute to the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Stewart)  who has been  Deputy Chairman  of the Committee throughout its deliberations. What I believe is an excellent report owes a great deal to the honourable member's experience and wisdom during the course of our deliberations. Like the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen),  I appreciated the completely bipartisan approach to the Committee's work displayed by all members of the Committee, regardless of their political allegiances. The end result we have produced as a Committee bears pretty full testament to that. 
I would also like to express my thanks to the Committee staff, as other honourable members have, for their untiring efforts and capable assistance. I would particularly like to thank  Mr Phil  Bergin, the Secretary of the Committee; Miss Virginia Greville;  Mrs Lyn  Coutman, and, in the early stages of the Committee,  Mr Allan  Kelly. The report is a large document which reflects the work of many months input by many expert witnesses. It contains a great deal of information on tourism which I believe has not previously been brought together in any comprehensive manner in Australia. That in itself makes the report an important document. It also contains many conclusions and recommendations and one obviously has not the time to go into all of these today. However, there are two or three that I would like to highlight because I believe these were the most important parts of the report. 
Firstly, I mention the conclusion that tourism in Australia is a major industry even though, as we fully recognised and discovered in our work, tourism is very difficult to define with precision. However, it is a major industry and has considerable economic significance, particularly, as the honourable member for Robertson pointed out, in non-metropolitan areas. In Australia I believe we have to create a much greater awareness of the value and the very great national signifiance of decentralisation. In my electorate of Ballarat, tourism has provided a great impetus to development. It has done so in many other areas of Australia. I would like to emphasise the importance of tourism- I believe it is highlighted in the report- in the development of employment opportunities and productive activity, particularly in non-metropolitan areas. I believe the conclusion that the wages structure in the industry, particularly the penalty rate system, is a major factor inhibiting the development of the industry in Australia both in terms of tourist facilities and employment is very significant. Virtually every witness who appeared before the Committee made this point. Like the honourable member for Robertson, I do not think this point was fully developed in the sense of bringing out a conclusive analysis. Therefore, I hope the Committee 's recommendation that a study be undertaken into this whole area by a tripartite working group is taken up as a matter of urgency and that the study, as the report recommends, be made available to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. 
I believe that the question of international air travel is also of great significance for the future development of the tourist industry in Australia. Without going into detail, 1 simply endorse strongly the comments the  Chairman  of the Committee made about giving charter nights a go in this country. I am not at all convinced that the arguments against opening up international air travel in Australia to some greater competition than we now experience have been explained in any conclusive way. I believe the recommendation that the Department of Industry and Commerce be renamed the Department of Industry, Commerce and Tourism is of importance. This may not seem to be a recommendation of great moment but such a change would have very real significance because it would have the effect of government giving specific recognition to the importance of the industry to Australia. 
I will not take up the time of the House any longer other than to say that I hope that the Committee's recommendations and the content of its report will increase government and community awareness of the significance and value of tourism to Australia. We have a great country and we have a responsibility to use it wisely and to enjoy it. We have a responsibility as a community and as a government to encourage that. I believe and firmly hope that this report will be a significant contribution in that direction. 
Sitting suspended from 1.2 to 2.15 p.m. 
I hope that people listening to the debate tonight will have listened carefully to Opposition spokesmen, particularly the honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr Kerin)  who has just concluded his remarks. If they have been listening they will have heard- I presume that the honourable member for Werriwa was expressing the view of his party- that there should not be a Primary Industry Bank of Australia and that there should not be a specialist bank which is designed specifically and exclusively to provide adequate, reasonable, long term finance to the rural sector at concessional rates of interest. If that is what the honourable member for Werriwa was saying then the rural sector of Australia now knows full well the general attitude of the Labor Party to the rural sector and rural producers, one of the life blood areas of our nation. 
The Bill before the House fulfils a commitment which was made in the Budget to provide income equalisation deposits to the Primary Industry Bank. It is essentially a machinery measure. Its purpose is to facilitate the use of the income equalisation deposit trust account for the purposes of making funds available to PIBA. Contrary to what has been said by Opposition spokesmen, the Primary Industry Bank of Australia fulfils one of the Government's important 1975 election promises, which was elaborated on in the 1977 election campaign by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  The 1975 election promise- that is when the promise was first made- was that the Liberal and National Country parties would provide medium and long term credit to rural producers through a specialist rural producers' bank. I emphasise that this is the first time in the history of this nation that the rural sector has had its own specialist nationwide bank. From the time of the Prime Minister's announcement during the election campaign of 1975 the bank has had a long history extending over 18 months or more of very detailed discussions and considerations between the Government, members of the Government parties and representatives of the rural sector, particularly the major rural organisations. I am glad to see the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde)  in the House tonight. He also played a very important part in the considerations that went on at that time. 
It is not dobbing him in. It is giving him the credit which is due to him. The people on our side of the House who engaged in those discussions over 18 months know, contrary to what the honourable member for Werriwa knows, what the people in the bush want. The people in the bush, virtually without exception over the 18 months when the proposal for a rural bank was being discussed, said that they wanted access to long term funds for farm development, restructuring, rural land acquisition and the like. It was the long-term availability of finance for rural producers that was the key request of every rural producer and rural organisation which spoke with Government members. That is precisely what the Primary Industry Bank of Australia provides. That is what it is all about. 
The Opposition is claiming that the interest rate for loans from the Primary Industry Bank will not be concessional. The loans are concessional and no-one can deny it. The Primary Industry Bank will provide long-term loans at short-term interest rates. It will provide loans of up to $100,000 with a maximum rate of interest of 10 per cent and a maximum rate of 12 per cent on loans in excess of $100,000. Those interest rates of 10 per cent and 12 per cent are bank overdraft rates. I assume that the Opposition realises that they are short-term rates. If anyone can tell me where any producer, investor, manufacturer, rural producer or borrower in Australia can get funds on terms of up to 30 years at an interest rate of 10 per cent or 12 per cent, I would like to know. I am sure that hundreds of thousands of potential borrowers in Australia would like to know. I lay to rest completely the fallacy that is being presented by the Opposition that the rates are not concessional. They are concessional. They are short-term interest rates applying to long-term loans. This has been made possible only through the Government's decision to make income equalisation deposits available to the Bank at the rate of 5 per cent which is the same rate that is paid to depositors of income equalisation deposits. 
The spokesmen for the Opposition have talked about high interest rates. Of course, we on this side of the House would like the rates of interest applying to loans to rural producers to be lower than 10 per cent or 12 per cent. What the Opposition seems to ignore is the fact that one cannot move interest rates for any one sector of the community in isolation from the total interest rate structure applying throughout the community. One cannot move interest rates generally in the absence of appropriate movements in the rate of inflation and costs. I remind the House of the fact that when Labor left office at the end of 1 975 the rate of inflation, which determined very importantly the rates of interest applying in this country, was twice what it is now. In other words, in the last three years, through responsible, courageous economic management, this Government has halved the rate of inflation and has put the economy in a position where it can bear lower interest rates. As the rate of inflation continues to come down through the continuation of responsible economic policies, interest rates will fall as well. 
For the Opposition to claim that the interest rates that will be paid on loans through the Primary Industry Bank will be too high, in my view, is completely hypocritical when one views it in the context of the situation in which it left the present Government when it took office. Had this Government not come into office in 1975, 1 hate to think what rural producers would be paying in interest rates for borrowed funds now. There is no surer fact, though, that instead of paying 10 to 12 per cent they would be paying a minimum of 15 to 20 percent. 
I have already alluded to the fact that the Opposition has castigated the Bank and in so doing, in effect has castigated the Government for setting up a primary industry bank at all. As I said, the Opposition has ignored the fact that rural producers required, requested and needed the availability of long-term finance and an assurance that that long-term finance was available. That is precisely what the Primary Industry Bank of Australia is all about. Let no one be in doubt about the fact that the Bank has the overwhelming support of the great majority of rural producers. They realise the immediate benefits that will accrue to them from the Bank and they realise also the longer term potential benefits which the Bank will provide as it becomes established over time. What seems to be another crass misunderstanding on the part of the Opposition is the fact that the Bank is to be a refinancing institution. It is not to be a direct primary lender. 
It is precisely what was promised. If the honourable member reads the 1977 general election statement by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  he will find that the Prime Minister spoke about a refinancing institution. It was realised and recognised, almost from day one- from the discussions which took place leading up to the establishment of this Bank- that it would be a refinancing institution. I am staggered to find that honourable members opposite do not even seem to realise the nature of the Bank. It will not be a direct prime lender; it will be a refinancing institution. 
-Because of the structure of the Bank, rural producers are represented on the board of the Bank. If the honourable member for Fremantle is saying that the board of the Bank ought to comprise solely representatives of the rural sector, I think he would find that the more responsible members of the rural sector, as is the case with most other rural matters, would disagree with what he is saying. Most of the major rural organisations have come out publicly in support of the Bank. They have congratulated the Government on the proposed establishment of the Bank. They have accepted and have congratulated the Government on so arranging the finances for the Bank that the concessional rates of interest will apply. 
To hear Labor spokesmen speak, one would gain the impression that the Bank is being foisted on to the rural sector against its wishes. That is obvious nonsense, but it is a fairly typical example of the knowledge and the extent of the knowledge that the Opposition has about the feelings of rural producers towards what they want to see in Federal Government policies. For the first time rural producers will have certainty in their borrowing for development, for the refinancing of their existing short-term debts and for rural land acquisition purposes of a developmental nature. 
The proposed establishment of the bank clearly demonstrates the difference in attitude towards the rural sector between the present Government and the Opposition. The Australian Labor Party has never recognised the real needs of rural producers. The Labor Party has never recognised that the rural sector needs cost stability and needs reliable access to long-term funds. The Opposition dislikes the proposed Primary Industry Bank; indeed, it says that it would not have a primary industry bank. That is simply because the Opposition dislikes the rural sector. It does not want to see the rural sector adequately serviced. Its policies when in government almost destroyed the rural sector, basically through the inflation of costs which it unleashed on the sector- inflation which in one year alone in the rural sector caused costs to increase by 30 per cent. As a result of that in 1974, 1975 and 1976 rural producers were faced with, and are only now recovering from, the greatest pressures of cost and real income reduction that they have seen in a generation. 
The Government has done a great deal to help the rural sector to try to get back on its feet after the avalanche launched on it during the years of the Labor Government. As I said earlier, the rate of inflation has been halved. That is the most important benefit that one could possibly give to rural producers whose prices for their products are very largely determined on world markets. Therefore, producers are not in control of their prices and they suffer very greatly indeedprobably more than any other sector of the community- when their costs increase at the savage rate at which they increased under Labor policies. We have also helped the rural sector with aggressive policies to improve access to overseas markets. 
We have restored some of the benefits that accrued to the rural sector before they were abolished by the Labor Government. The rural sector has benefited very considerably also from the investment allowance which this Government introduced- an investment allowance which the Opposition wants abolished. Not only rural producers but also thousands and thousands of people throughout the community, particularly small businessmen- rural or otherwisehave benefited through the abolition of estate duty. Again, this was a policy measure of the present Government which the Opposition opposed bitterly. In the past three years the rural sector has benefited also through improvements in tax averaging procedures, through the introduction of income equalisation deposits and through the restructuring of the taxation scales, again a measure opposed by the Opposition. Rural industry also has benefited from the reintroduction of a fuel price equalisation scheme which, again, was a scheme opposed by the Opposition. In fact, the previous scheme was abolished by the Labor Government. Rural industry also benefited from the assistance given last year to beef producers, improved dairy marketing arrangements, and the increase in the reserve price for wool in line with market conditions. As far as I know, it was an increase which was not opposed by the Opposition but that attitude contrasted very strongly with the attitude it took when in office and its government in 1975 wanted to decrease the reserve price for wool. 
-It is true. If the honourable member looks at the record, he will see that what I say is correct. There have been many other beneficial policies introduced by this Government, one of the most important of which is the establishment of the Primary Industry Bank of Australia, a bank for rural producers. It is a bank which for the first time will provide rural producers with a specialised source of finance to meet their needs, a bank which for the first time in the memory of most rural producers will provide them with long term loans at rates of interest which on present day general interest rate structures are concessional rates of interest. It is a bank which is going to have great- not only immediate but also long term- and lasting benefits for the rural sector. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Riverina) (10.2)-The Opposition does not intend to hold up the passage of this Bill. Our amendment seeks to point out to the House and to the nation that the 1977 election promise of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  was to provide through the Primary Industry Bank of Australia long term credit at concessional interest rates. The main thrust of our argument is that the Bill before the House does not provide these concessional rates. 
The honourable member for Ballarat  (Mr Short)  began his speech by falsely accusing the honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr Kerin)  of saying that the Australian Labor Party was not in favour of a rural bank. That is quite incorrect. The Labor Party is saying that it is not in favour of a rural bank that does not provide concessional rates of interest. We have produced evidence to prove that many primary producers are very dissatisfied and hostile because this rural bank legislation has not provided for these concessional rates of interest. Because the honourable member for Ballarat has claimed that what he put forward was the Labor Party's view, I will have to state the Opposition's attitude once again. 
I remind the House that, when introducing the Bill, in his second reading speech the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  pointed out that the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  and he intended to assist the Primary Industry Bank by making $30m available from the Income Equalisation Deposits Trust Account at an initial rate of 5 per cent. He went on to say: 
This Bill, which is largely machinery in nature, will facilitate the use of the IED Trust Account for that purpose. 
In my electorate, primary producers who have income equalisation deposits do not look upon the Government's legislation as a simple machinery measure. They have told me that in their opinion it represents first class robbery and they have asked me to protest loudly on their behalf. They want to know why they are paid only 5 per cent on their income equalisation deposits when those deposits are able to earn 10 per cent and 1 2 per cent when they are lent to their fellow primary producers. Surely, the legislation before us is not the fruition of the great promise that the Liberal and National Country Parties made to solve the liquidity problems of primary producers, the great promise that was shouted from the hilltops by the Liberal and National Country Parties during the last two election campaigns. For too long our primary producers have had to be content with middle men who have doubled the price of their product between the farm gate and the consumer. We have heard in this House groans from the National Country Party benches about this very fact. But what does the National Country Party do when it is its turn to assist primary producers? It creates a bigger rip off in the provision of credit than the most vicious sharks in the money market. 
The Bill before the House is much more than a broken election promise of the Fraser Government. It shows the Government's disrespect for the intelligence of the primary producer. As far back as 1975 in his policy speech the Prime Minister promised to establish a primary industry bank providing low interest long term finance. In the two years after he became Prime Minister, he had done nothing in that direction. The primary producers throughout this country expressed their hostility and disappointment, so much so that in the dying stages of" the last Parliament before facing the electors the Government hastily passed the Australian Rural Bank Bill. That initial legislation, passed a year ago, made no mention of important details such as interest rates, the amount and source of the funds for lending and the directorship of the Bank. 
Looking at the Bill before the House tonight, one can well understand why the initial Bill did not contain this information. If it had there would have been a cry from rural areas right throughout the nation and, of course, the Government would have lost an untold number of rural seats. Even the 1977 Bill raised the suspicion of many primary producers because it explicitly forbade the Bank from dealing directly with customers. Denying the Primary Industry Bank a prime lending role naturally raised the suspicion of primary producers that the trading banks would use the Primary Industry Bank simply as a receptacle for bad debts. It must be admitted that the  Chairman  of the Primary Industry Bank denied this on 25 July when he said: 
An impending borrower will go to his own bank and if that bank decides that his proposition is viable, then that bank will go to the Primary Industry Bank and ask for funds. But the prime lender takes the risk. 
That is, the trading bank takes the risk. So it should be quite obvious that here we have a Primary Industry Bank, or what is called a farmers' bank, that does not lend money to farmers. What sort of a primary industry bank is that? The trading bank assesses the commercial proposition and carries the risk of default. Money is lent at or slightly above overdraft and Commonwealth Development Bank rates of interest although, as the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr John Brown)  said, there is no guarantee that this will continue once the income equalisation deposits fund is exhausted. It is clear from all this, as many honourable members have pointed out, that there is no valid reason for the existence of the Primary Industry Bank in its present form and as provided for in this Bill because it only adds to the cost of finance by interposing an extra tier of bureaucracy between the  borrower and the money. If we turn to page 89 of the Rural Information Papers we can see what money is available to primary producers. It is under the heading 'Rural Finance'. It tells us what money is available from the trading banks, namely, trading bank finance and finally from the Commonwealth Development Bank, the Reserve Bank, other credit sources and the Primary Industry Bank of Australia. Anyone can see that there is a considerable amount of overlapping in the credit that is available, so much so that one could really understand why we find such news articles as the one that was published in the  Stock Journal  of 17 March 1977. It states, under the heading 'Rural Credit Needs Overhaul, but why a rural bank?': 
A National Rural Bank, a major plank of the National Country Party platform for many years, although still alive and well has not yet awoken from a deep sleep. Indeed, it was one of the National Country Party's major election promises of 1975. Although it had some hope of becoming a reality, it would appear the Government has no intention of treating it with any real urgency . . . There is no suggestion the Government is getting cold feet on a rural bank; rather it might, on investigation, be facing up to the fact that there may not be such a gaping credit gap and that this is already filled by the existing lending institutions such as the Commonwealth Bank, other trading banks and pastoral houses who provide the bulk of the loans to the rural sector. It might also be asking itself: 'Is there any real need to set up a costly separate institution?' It is widely acknowledged that the main deficiency in rural credit is long term lending. 
This is what the Opposition has pointed out. This has come from notable rural authorities. It is not just the opinion of the Opposition at all. An even better example of primary producers' opinions can be found in the  Cattleman  of 2 1 September 1978. It is under the heading 'Bulldust and Beer'. It is written by  Mr Rick  Farley. I ask to have the whole article incorporated in  Hansard  because I am running out of time. 
However, the latest whisper indicates the interest rate could fall below the rumoured level of 1 1 per cent to current trading bank rates; i.e. 1014 per cent or slightly less. In this context it is interesting to note the Government's changed position.  Mr Sinclair  now is saying it was never the Government's intention to provide concessional finance to primary producers through the Primary Industry Bank. Rather, the Government wished to provide longer term finance than previously available. 
Further on it states: 
Their long-heralded Primary Industry Bank is an unqualified flop in farmers' eyes, and will do nothing to halt consistent producer criticism of the NCP's performance within the coalition. The true inadequacies of the Primary Industry Bank are highlighted when placed in perspective with the Canadian model. 
The article goes on to say how much better the assistance given to primary producers in Canada is. 

 The article read as follows- 

The controversy surrounding the Primary Industry Bank continues unabated. 
Interest rates will have not been announced, although Primary Industry Minister,  Mr Sinclair,  met with Treasurer Howard last week to discuss the issue. It is uncertain whether a decision actually was made, but as membership of the bank's board already has been public for six weeks, further delays in determination of interest rates can only make the Government look more inept. 
However, the latest whisper indicates the interest rate could fall below the rumoured level of 1 1 per cent to current trading bank rates i.e., 1014 per cent, or slightly less. 
In this context, it is interesting to note the Government 's changed position.  Mr Sinclair  now is saying it was never the Government's intention to provide concessional finance to primary producers through the PI Bank. Rather, the Government wished to provide longer-term finance than previously available. 
ABOUT FACE 
This conflicts dramatically with statements by coalition members during the last Federal election. 
At that time, the then Rural Bank was lauded up hill and down dale on country hustings as an institution capable of providing both concessional and long-term finance to farmers. 
The contrast between promise and reality has not gone unnoticed.  Mr Rod  Black, former AWMPF  president  and now a producer representative on the PI Bank Board, has said he may resign if interest rates are not below commercial rates. 
Australian Farmers Federation president, Don Eckersley, also has warned his members may boycott the bank, and a resolution to the Cattlemen's Union convention this week recommends similar action. 
In fact, the only producer support for the bank has come from AWGC  president, Sir Samuel  Burston, a close personal friend of the Prime Minister. 
This of course creates a highly embarrassing situation for  Mr Sinclair  and the National Country Party. 
Their long-heralded PI Bank is an unqualified flop in farmers ' eyes, and will do nothing to halt consistent producer criticism of the NCP's performance within the coalition. 
The true inadequacies of the PI Bank are highlighted when placed in perspective with the Canadian model. 
The Farm Credit Corporation of Canada, backed by Government finance, loans funds direct to farmers at an interest rate 1 per cent below the current bank rate. Government funds are lent to the corporation at 8 per cent and producers are charged 9V4 per cent. 
Loans are available for up to 29 years for any farm improvements, including building a home. 
Most importantly, emphasis is placed on farm development. Established producers are directed to traditional lenders. 
In this context, the failure of the Australian Government, and especially the NCP, to produce a more acceptable PI Bank is puzzling and distressing. 
Everywhere we see primary producers crying out for credit. We now have to face the problem of the high cost decision to stop acrosstheborder wheat trading, and these people are crying out for credit. Here we have another account from the  Weekly Times  of 1 November 1978, which says: 

 Sir Leslie Price,  chairman  of the Australian Wheat Board, has called on the Federal Government to allow the Board freedom to borrow on the best terms available. 
Every primary producer organisation is crying out for credit. In my electorate many more primary producers are facing disaster with the introduction of the Wheat Board's regulations following the court decision. I make it clear that I am in favour of orderly marketing, but I do say that something has to be done for these people, the small farmers who have been trading across the border. They are facing bankruptcy if they cannot get liquidity. So are the small traders and the carriers. The Government has a chance now to prove that there is something in this Primary Industry Bank. If these people can be saved we can say that the whole exercise was worth while. But I am afraid that it was only an election promise. I think it is up to the Government to try to prove that that is not so. 
-The first thing that must be said about the text of the matter of public importance raised by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  today is that rarely, if ever, could such a cynical proposal have been put to this House. The Leader of the Opposition has in recent months become known throughout Australia as a master of double think; the man who has done more to talk this nation down and screw its neck than any other person; the man who has become known as the Jeremiah of Australian politics; the man who, for his own political ends, has been prepared to abdicate any respect for his economic expertise or even his economic comprehension; the man who, in recent days, appears to have done an about face on his views about the economy simply because his image makers have advised him that his carping, negative approach to anything designed to improve the Australian economy is losing him credibility in the electorate. How right they are. 
Today the Leader of the Opposition accused the Government of failing to outline and implement a consistent economic policy. Yet for three years he has been proclaiming that the Government's policy is too consistent and that it needs greater flexibility and change. The Leader of the Opposition cannot have it both ways. 
Which way does he want it? I will come back to that point later. To its great credit, the Government has pursued a wholly consistent program for economic recovery. It has also implemented that program. We are now reaping the fruits of that consistent and responsible approach in the form of a definite recovery in the Australian economy although, as the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  has so rightly pointed out, it would be unwise to be too euphoric just yet. 
The Government's economic policy has had one fundamental premise, that is, that economic growth cannot be restored and growing employment opportunities cannot be created unless inflation is controlled. The Government's first priority has therefore been and must continue to be to reduce the level of inflation from the annual rate of 15 per cent or higher which was the norm under the Whitlam Labor Government in which the present Leader of the Opposition was Treasurer. The fight against inflation- I emphasise this- is part of the fight against unemployment. It is part of the fight to create jobs and to restore economic growth. Every economically successful country in the Western world has pursued essentially the same basic policy. When they have strayed from that policy they have witnessed a resurgence of inflation and of lost job opportunities. The United States is the latest and most spectacular example of this. Every major international organisation concerned with economic issues has tendered the same advice- the International Monetary Fund, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, the Bank for International Settlements and others. 
The honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  mentioned Japan and Germany. He referred to their stimulus to economic activity through government spending. What he did not say, however, was that the reason that those countries could undertake such action was that they had had a successful fight against inflation. They were able to increase government expenditure because their inflation rate was about 3 per cent. That is a vastly different situation from the one that faces us. The theme of responsibility along the lines that the Government is approaching in its economic policy has been central to the strategy ever since it took office. The implementation of that strategy has also been consistent. It has involved several basic elements including restraint in the growth of government expenditure to get it back into Une with the basic capacity of the economy to grow and thereby to provide the necessary real resources; an attempt to restrain the rate of growth of real wages to bring them back into Une with the capacity of the economy to pay; and careful control of the rate of growth of the money supply so that excess liquidity does not continue to fuel the fires of inflation as it did throughout Labor's period in office. In other words, the economic policy pursued by the Government has been entirely consistent throughout its period of office. This has enabled it to implement other policies consistent with its basic objectives. 
Without its responsible approach to macroeconomic policies, the Government would not have been able to introduce the wide range of policies which have already been so conducive to economic recovery and which for many years in the future will have beneficial effects on the economy and on all Australians. To name but a few the Government has introduced tax indexation, export incentives, family allowances, automatic indexation of pensions, abolition of estate and gift duties, lowering of Division 7 taxation on private companies, a major improvement in the facilities for migrants and improved social welfare services. Let us look at the economic results of the implementation of this consistent and responsible approach to economic management. Inflation has been cut virtually in half. The reduction of inflation is the Government's prime objective. It must continue to be pursued because inflation is still too high. Interest rates have fallen, not as much as many would have hoped but they are down on average across the board by between 1 per cent and '2 per cent compared with two years ago. 
Consumer confidence appears to be returning fairly rapidly. Retail sales figures are highly encouraging. The registration of new motor vehicles has been strengthening. Business investment in new plant and equipment has surged.  Major new  investment projects are at last starting to move. The mining and minerals industry is showing real signs of renewed growth. Mineral exploration, particularly oil exploration, which is so vital to this country, is growing strongly after having been brought almost to a complete halt through the deliberate policies of the previous Labor Government. Company profitability is again starting to increase, thereby providing the basis for further investment, expansion and creation of job opportunities. The rural sector is growing strongly, thanks not only to a good season- important though that is- but also to an easing of the cost pressures which have, plagued the sector for years. 
Unemployment of course is still a major problem, not only an economic problem but, as has been pointed out by other speakers, also a very serious social problem. But we should not let this make us lose sight of the fact that for the first time in several years employment in the private sector is growing once again. Most pleasing of all, this growth is taking place in the manufacturing sector, among others. In the final three months of 1978 employment in manufacturing industry in Australia grew for the first time since 1973. Apart from unemployment there are some other important problem areas. In particular, the balance of payments is a matter of real concern and places important constraints on the Government in some of what would otherwise be policy options. However, even in this difficult area there are signs to indicate some improvement in the months ahead. One of the most significant recent developments is that manufacturers are now looking again at export markets, something they have not been able to do for years because of the inflation induced havoc wrought when Labor was in office. 
So much for the carping of the Leader of the Opposition. He is only now grudgingly and for public image reasons beginning to acknowledge that the economy is recovering, that the Jeremiah of the past three years was wrong. What he cannot yet bring himself to admit publicly is that the improvement in the economy and the signs of growing improvement are the direct result of a firm, responsible and consistent approach to economic management by this Government. Indeed, all the Leader of the Opposition can propose as an alternative to the present economic  policies is an advocacy of more and more government spending- a discredited approach which has already proved disastrous in Australia as well as in other Western nations. The Leader of the Opposition accused the Government of inconsistency. Let us look for a moment at what the published Press reports of the statements of the Leader of the Opposition indicate about his consistency. On 26 November 1978 in an address to the nation the Leader of the Opposition said: 
The decade of the 1980s can be a period of fulfilment, a period of great achievement- but only if we achieve this change in the direction of our economic management immediately. 
On 22 January, only a month ago, he made this statement: 
The Government can no longer avoid a change in its approach to economic management. There must be an immediate start on a carefully controlled program for economic recovery. 
Yet on 17 February 1979 in the  New Idea  he said: 
I am very optimistic for Australia in the 1980s  . . There has been too much despair and depression recently. 
So we have seen a major switch by the Leader of the Opposition. He is now saying the Government is not consistent. He is now optimistic, or at least he was until today. We do not know where he stands. It is not surprising. He leads a party which is so faction ridden on economic policy as well as other matters that it is impossible for that party to maintain a consistent line. I have no doubt that this situation is not lost on the Australian people. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! The discussion is now concluded. 
I do not wish to speak about the Victorian campaign tonight, other than to say that I would agree with the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones)  that the Australian Labor Party in Victoria has its best chance for quite a few years of winning an election for no other reason than that it is no longer burdened by the present honourable member for Lalor, a former Victorian State member, and more importantly by the present honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding),  who is also a former State member. It is in relation to the honourable member for Melbourne Ports that I wish to speak tonight because in the adjournment debate on Tuesday of last week the honourable member claimed that job seekers were being discriminated against because of alleged changes in the method of notifying job seekers of vacancies registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service. The honourable member claimed that the Service is no longer permitted to send telegrams to unemployed people to notify them of job vacancies. This allegation is untrue. It is correct that the CES has been asked to exercise restraint in the use of telegrams. However I am advised that the manager and the assistant manager at CES offices have the authority to send telegrams and they do send telegrams where necessary. 
The honourable member for Melbourne Ports claimed that job seekers who do not have telephones are discriminated against. This allegation is also untrue. There has been no major change at all in this area. Telephone contact with persons registered for employment is still the number one method of contact, as it always has been. However, if the job seeker is not on the telephone he is advised of a job vacancy either by the Australian Post courier service or, as in the past, by telegram. On some occasions, but only when the advice is not urgent and only in a very small proportion of cases, the job seeker is contacted by letter through the normal Australia Post channels. The increasing use of the courier service- it is certainly a fact that it is being increasingly used- has streamlined the previous procedures and has improved the service provided by the CES. If there is no one at home when the telegram is delivered then the CES simply does not know whether the person has been contacted or not. On the other hand, by using the Australia Post courier service, if the person is not home the courier service reports back to the CES. 
This has been a major improvement in the service which benefits not only the CES but also job seekers themselves. It also has considerably reduced the cost of notifying job seekers of vacancies. It therefore has increased the efficient use of taxpayers' money. For example, in my area the average cost of sending a telegram to a job seeker notifying him of a vacancy is $3 to $4. Over recent months the average cost of notification- the figures are taken out weekly at my local CES Office- has been running at between $1.10 and $1.35 per notification. It could well be that, given some of the statements by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports, he does not object to the profligacy of spending taxpayers' money willy-nilly without any consideration for cost efficiency. All I can say is that there are many taxpayers and job seekers who do. 
The statement by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports also ignored the fact that the introduction of self-service into CES offices has much improved the circulation of vacancies between officers and has therefore reduced the need for telegrams. It is to be deplored that the honourable member did not check his facts before making his statement. He referred to a report in the Melbourne  Age  of 19 February which referred to the CES statement. I am advised that both spokesmen who were quoted claim that they have been misrepresented. More importantly, it is to be deplored that the honourable member used the cowardly cloak of parliamentary privilege to call an officer of the CES a liar. It is an insult to the hard-working officers of the CES. It is also an abuse of reasonable and proper parliamentary procedure. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! It being 1 1 p.m., the debate is interrupted. 

 -Mr Speaker, I claim to have been misrepresented. 
It is a pity that this debate is not being broadcast so that the people of Australia can hear yet once again how the Opposition is using the forms of the House to continue its personal smear tactics against members of this Government and members and officials of the Victorian Government. The immediate aim of the exercise is to attempt to affect the outcome of the Victorian State election on 5 May. The present campaign will not achieve anything other than the alienation of decent people still further from the Labor cause. If any of the honourable members opposite had been moving around rural areas in recent days- I am sure that they have not- they would have found out what the events of recent days have done to their fortunes. It is to this Parliament's shame and regret that we have on the Opposition benches at present several of the greatest purveyors of political muck-raking that the Federal Parliament has had the misfortune to experience in its history. Foremost amongst those are the two speakers from the Opposition who have participated in today's debate, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding)  and the honourable member for Batman  (Mr Howe). 
The Opposition today concentrated its remarks on the loans paid to the Beggs family by the Victorian Rural Finance Commission. Not one whit of evidence was produced to support the allegations, which once again were typical of the gutter tactics of the present Opposition. 
-The fact of the matter is that the size of loans from the Rural Finance Commission for bushfire relief- essentially that is the type of loan that we are discussing todaydepends on the loss incurred and on the computation of the Rural Finance commissioner's judgment of loss. 
The computation is done by commissioners who are autonomous people. I will come back to that later. Is the honourable member for Batman  (Mr Howe)  suggesting that the commissioners lack integrity and honesty? In Monday's Melbourne  Age  a letter appeared from  Mr P.  F. Cashin. 
-I listened to the honourable member in silence. He should listen to me.  Mr P.  F. Cashin was the Chief Superintendent of the Glenelg Police District at the time of the 1977 bushfires, which almost wiped out the Beggs' property and which resulted in its entirely proper application for loan funds to help in some small way to repair the damage that was incurred. In his letter  Mr Cashin  says, amongst other things: 
It is a sad day when politicians attempt to make capital out of the grief and despair of people involved in a tragedy such as the Woodhouse fire. 
As Chief Superintendent of the Glenelg police district at the time, I personally witnessed the tragic aftermath of the fire at the Begg 's property. 
The damage to the Beggs ' property was severe. 
It is a slur on all people who asked for assistanceassistance needed urgently. I hope that someone takes some action to rectify the unfortunate allegations cast not only on the Beggs family but all the people involved in the fires. 
He concludes by saying: 
I strongly question whether any of the families involved will come out any better off financially. In fact, I think they will all suffer a loss that will take many years to rectify. 
This letter is written by the highly respected Chief Superintendent of Police who witnessed this fire. I seek leave to have the full text of the letter incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The letter read as follows- 

I return now to the wording of the matter of public importance we are discussing. One thing that could be said in its favour, other than the fact that the whole thing is obviously synthetic and patent, is that at face value it is refreshing that the Labor Party has raised an issue related to the rural sector. Never did a political party not only abysmally ignore but, worse still, deliberately create havoc and hardship in the rural sector as did the Labor Party when in government from 1972 to 1975. This is not only my view; it is the view of the Labor Party's committee of inquiry which was established to investigate why the Australian Labor Party won only three of the 48 predominantly rural seats in the Federal Parliament in 1977. The report of the inquiry reads: 
There is a body of opinion within the Party . . . which believes that following the last ALP government, the country voter is forever alienated from the ALP . . . and therefore it is futile to expect the ALP to significantly increase its basis of support in the country in the foreseeable future. 
I am sure that the events of the last few days will strongly reinforce that view. So much for Labor's transparently synthetic concern for the rural sector. 
-I had not intended to participate in this debate but since there has been only one  speaker  on the Government side I would like to do so briefly before the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Mr Adermann)  sums up. I am sure that everyone in the House has listened very carefully to, and is in agreement with, the sentiments expressed by my friend the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  and others about the concern of honourable members on both sides of this House for the welfare and well-being of ex-servicemen. They are, as the honourable member for Wills and others have said, a group in our community that deserves our special thanks and gratitude for everything that they have done. As a community we have an obligation to look after, wherever it can be done and needs to be done, the welfare of exservicemen and of their families. I must say that the new arrangements proposed in the Bill seem sensible and appropriate. 
As a member of the Returned Services League I have mixed as much as I could with RSL members and with ex-servicemen generally and have not been aware that any great concern has been expressed about the suggested changes. Indeed, most of the expressions of interest that I have heard have tended to be favourably disposed towards the amendments. Having said that, I am sure that I speak on behalf of honourable members from all parties when I say that we share the hope of the honourable member for Wills that the new arrangements will not be such as will disadvantage ex-servicemen. I am sureand I am confident that the Minister in summing up will allude to the point- that the Government in common with all honourable members, would wish that the new arrangements would be carefully monitored to ensure that if unforeseen problems arose they would be fully examined by way of the monitoring system and, as necessary, adjusted in time. I did not want to let this opportunity pass without expressing a bipartisan view, on behalf of both sides of the House, as to the importance with which I know that all honourable members regard the whole question of benefits and arrangements relating to ex-servicemen and their families. 
-My purpose in speaking this evening is to seek the support of all members of this House, the media and the community at large not only to have 26 January designated as Australia Day, our national day, but also to have 26 January and only 26 January as the public holiday for Australia Day in the same manner as has always applied to the observance of Anzac Day. At present 26 January is a nothing day for almost all Australians. If it falls on a Tuesday to a Friday there is no public holiday, no serious recognition or celebration of the day. If it falls on a Saturday or Sunday again there is no real recognition. If it falls on a Monday the situation is perhaps even worse. We have a public holiday all right but not for the purpose of celebrating Australia Day, rather simply for the purpose of having a day at the beach, at the races, in the garden or the like. 
I believe that Australians are at risk of losing their national pride and sense of purpose. We live in a beautiful country. Our resources are immense. We have been almost entirely free of war on our home soil. We are a potential force for good in the world second to none, despite our limited population. Yet most of us do not seem to have any real sense of appreciation that we are amongst the luckiest people on earth; nor do we seem to have any real appreciation of our individual responsibilities to our fellow Australians or to other people in the world less fortunate than we are. We lack the tolerance that we used to have. We lack the positive spirit of purpose which more than any other factor has developed our nation to the high standard of living it enjoys today. 
We are losing our identity. How do we recapture it? I know that the answers to that are manifold but one of them, and one we can do something about quickly and easily, is to celebrate our national day on the day on which it falls dueand that day is 26 January. I should like to see 
Australians celebrate our national day on 26 January in the same way that Americans celebrate theirs on Independence Day or the French on Bastille Day or the Indians on their national day, which happens to coincide with ours. 
Both Federal and State governments should arrange specific celebrations on Australia Day. So should local councils and shires. I am pleased that in my electorate the city of Ballarat holds a flag raising ceremony on 26 January, but because we do not really celebrate Australia Day few people turn up to join in. In Maryborough, also in my electorate, the city council this year publicised the fact that it would celebrate Australia Day on 26 January with a flag raising ceremony followed by an Australian folk concert. It was the first time the city had had such a combined celebration. A good crowd came along. The people had an enjoyable time. Most importantly, they went away in the knowledge that they had actually joined in celebrating and acknowledging the most important non-religious date in our calendar. 
The Maryborough city council handed out small Australian flags- free- to all the people present. The council bought them from the Australia Day Council in Melbourne. Do honourable members know where those flags had been made? They had been made in Japan. Quite a few members of this House are now wearing the Austraiian flag as a lapel badge- a most encouraging sign. But do honourable members know where those badges are made? They are made in one of the communist countries of Eastern Europe. This is incredible. I think it is wrong. If we in this nation cannot or will not make our own national flag or our own national flag lapel badges heaven help us in the longer term, indeed in the shorter term as well. 
If we as a nation are to fulfil our potential- not just economic but social and humanitarian as well- and if we are to justify the good fortune which has been bestowed upon us through simply living in this great land, we must restore our national identity and our national pride. As a step along that road I urge the Government to gazette only 26 January as the Australia Day holiday and to initiate action with State and local governments and other interested organisations, such as the Austrafia Day Council and the Australian Natives Association, to organise specific Australia Day celebrations and to encourage publicly all Australians to participate fully. 
-In many ways I, and I am sure many other honourable members, regret the so-called Lusher motion which has been moved because, despite the enormous amount of publicity and lobbying which has preceded this debate, I wonder how representative of the views of the community at large are any of the views put to all members of this House. I wonder how representative are the views of members of this all-male House. It therefore leaves us with the almost awesome task of thinking our way through what is obviously a very complex web of values, some of which are mutually incompatible. 
In strict terms, what we are considering is simply the question of who should pay for the overwhelming majority of abortions in Australia which are not medically necessary: The taxpayer at large or the person who has the abortion? Although technically that is the issue which we are debating, it is quite impossible to form a view on the matter without that view being importantly influenced by one's general view on the whole issue of abortion. The facets which lead one to a view on this general issue will differprobably in their range; certainly in the weight given to the individual components- from one individual to another. 
Before turning to these major issues I would like to comment briefly on the subject of medical necessity because I cannot fully accept the arguments advanced by the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher)  and the honourable member for Perth  (Mr McLean)  in support of their motion. I have three problems with their arguments on this score. Firstly, I rather feel that the net effect of the adoption of this motion would be actually to increase the amount of the taxpayers revenue going to meet the cost of abortions, mainly because of greater usage of the free facilities of public hospitals. Secondly, there are many other items in the medical benefits schedule which could not be regarded as medically necessary. To be consistent this motion should perhaps be also calling for a test of extreme medical necessity to be applied to these items as well. Thirdly, in my opinion, there are certain of these other non-medically necessary items which should remain in the schedule. So I have difficulty in supporting the test of medical necessity advanced by the mover and seconder of the motion. 
However, I do support the general intent of the Lusher motion, but on other grounds. I know that there are many people in our community who take a very fundamentalist view on the issue of abortion one way or the other. Whether we like it or not, the issue of abortion is really what this debate is all about. These people see the matter in stark black or white. For them their particular decision is simple. In some ways I envy them for that. To me the matter is more complicated. Parliament cannot be the determinant or the arbiter of a community's morality. Only the community itself can do this. In the pluralist society in which we live the range of views on social and moral issues will be as broad as the number of individuals in that society. But Parliament can and I believe should discuss social and moral issues even though it cannot dictate on these issues. 
We must also remember that the Federal Parliament has no power or responsibility to legislate on, or otherwise determine, the legality or illegality of abortion, other than in the Australian Capital Territory. Whether particular forms of abortion are or are not legal is a matter, as has been said over and over again, for each State to determine. The present laws on this matter differ considerably from one State to another. Even more, they differ greatly in their administration, and this is perhaps one of the major reasons why the Lusher motion is before this House. One important question for consideration is whether Federal Government arrangements for the funding of abortions should necessarily be in complete accord with the range of laws on abortion prevailing through the States. The honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Simon),  and those who may propose to support this amendment, presumably accept this proposition, but I cannot. On the contrary, I most strongly oppose it because if one did accept the honourable member for McMillan's proposition it would mean that the Federal Parliament would be forced to support what it might regard as ' bad ' State laws on a whole range of issues. Conversely, it would be locked in to the lowest common denominator of State laws. This would give the Federal Parliament no right or scope to form its own judgment or express its own opinion not only on social issues but also on a host of other matters. 
The real motivation underlying the Lusher motion would appear, inevitably, to be a belief in the sanctity of human life- a belief that the unborn child has as much right to life as has any other human being. I know that there are those who would argue that human life does not date from the moment of conception, but the overwhelming weight of medical and other opinion would not support this view. It is the principle that the sanctity of human life must be upheld at all times where to do so does not endanger the lives of other people which leads me to support the motion before the House. I believe that if we move away from that principle there will be no end to a progressive weakening of community values and attitudes towards the rights of human beings to choose for themselves their very existence. 
I appreciate that critics of this viewpoint will argue that, whilst the very existence of life may be a matter of great principle, so too is the quality of that life and that to permit a child to be born into a family or to an individual who does not want it or who feels she cannot cope is a greater misfortune than to abort the life of that child. Such critics would also argue that it is the lower income families which will suffer from the introduction of the funding arrangements proposed in the motion. These arguments, of course, cannot be lightly dismissed. But they all appear to suffer from the basic weakness that at no stage do they take into account the fact that a human being's life is at stake- an unborn human being, but a human being nevertheless. Nor do they appear to give cognisance to other positive alternatives- for example, adoption. 
The same weakness appears to lie in the assertion by certain women's groups that it is, in their words, the basic right of every woman to control her own body. I certainly do not dispute that assertion in itself. But I ask the question: Does every pregnant woman have the basic right to determine whether her unborn child shall be permitted to live or to die regardless of circumstances? Should she have the basic right to say that her unborn child be not permitted to live simply because she does not want the child or because it may cause financial or other strain which she would prefer not to have to cope with? To me it is far from clear that she has such a basic right. At the end of the day these arguments of the quality of life for both parents and children and the rights of women have to be weighed on the scales against the principle of the right of human beings to be born, provided the safety of the mother's life is not at issue. That is a principle which I find very difficult to overturn. 
The honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Macphee),  in his speech yesterday, quoted with approval an extract from the Royal Commission on Human Relationships that the life of the unborn child is different in quality from the life of a human being after birth, the clear implication being that the life of the unborn child is somehow inferior. I find such a proposition extraordinary. How can one differentiate between the intrinsic quality of one human being compared with another? Does this also mean that a so-called normal person is of higher quality than a Down's syndrome or a spastic or a cerebral palsy? What right and what criteria can possibly justify such assertions? 
If the Government implemented the motion being debated today, or the amendments of the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde)  or the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman),  and if the medical profession acted in accordance with the motion, it is not certain that the number of terminations would actually be reduced. It could well be more of a discouragement to on-demand abortions if the Government were simply to delete item 6469 from the medical benefits schedule. Depending on what procedures the House follows later today when we come to the vote on the motion and/or the amendments before the Chair, I ask the Government not to lose sight of this proposition as one of the alternative options to be considered. 
It has been argued in this debate and elsewhere that implementation of the intent of the Lusher motion could place an intolerable burden on the resources of public hospitals. I do not believe that any firm judgment can be made about this argument. South Australia, for example, where terminations must be performed in a hospital, has not, to my knowledge, experienced particular difficulties on this account. If the argument did prove to be correct, appropriate remedies would obviously have to be found. But, to me, to use a hypothetical possibility as an argument is not in itself a sufficient reason to vote against the motion. 
The spectre of the re-emergence of the backyard abortionist has also been raised. No one could have failed to be deeply impressed by the moving speech we heard yesterday from the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins).  It goes without saying that all members of this House would be totally opposed to such a repugnant development. But there appears again to be little evidence to indicate that such a development would be likely. Blessedly, we have been virtually free of the back yard abortionist for well over a decade and I have seen nothing to suggest that this has occurred simply because of changes in the medical benefits schedule. The main item which appears to have been associated with the increase in abortions in recent years is item 6469. 
This item was introduced into the schedule, without any debate might I add, only in 1973, which was years after the back yard abortionists had been effectively eliminated from our midst. 
The question of abortion cannot be looked at as a social issue in isolation. If we as a community believe that our society would be a better and more humane society with fewer abortions, and regardless of how we as individuals vote on the motion before us today, we must as a community take increased steps to lessen the number of situations arising where abortions are contemplated by the women concerned. Financial discouragement, which is essentially what the Lusher motion proposes, is only one possible part of the solution. The real solution involves many potential elements- improved systems of family support, not only financial but also educative, counselling and moral; improved sex education in our schools; improved understanding of human relationships; better family planning facilities, and many other elements. None of these, however, is in any way incompatible with the general intent of the Lusher motion or of the amendments moved by the honourable members for Moore and Mitchell. 
Like other members, I am in a quandary as to how to vote on the amendments which will be put this evening before the substantive motion is put, because it appears quite possible that the Lusher motion itself will not be put to the vote. If it is, I will vote for it. I will not support the Simon amendment for reasons I have already stated. I could support the Hyde amendment. I can also see much merit in the Cadman amendment, particularly with its coverage of pregnancy arising from rape or incest. How I vote on these latter two amendments will have to depend on how I assess the likelihood of the Lusher motion succeeding if it comes to a vote. Above all else, my vote will be cast on the basis of the fundamental importance that I attach to the life of a human being, whether he be born or as yet unborn, and to the laws of our society, not just the laws of our parliaments, relating to life and death generally. Surely the sanctity of human life must be the fundamental linchpin of any just, humane and compassionate society. 
I preface my question to the Treasurer by referring to the issue at par, as from 1 November 1978, of Series 13 Australian Savings Bonds and ask: Is it a fact that these bonds carry an interest rate of 8.73 per cent if not redeemed prior to 1 June 1979? If so, does this mean that an investor who subscribes now to the bonds would not be subject to a reduction in that rate of interest if he or she held them until after 1 June 1979? If so, does this mean that Australian Savings Bonds Series 13 are now an extremely attractive form of short term gilt-edged security? 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I claim to have been misrepresented by the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes).  The honourable member for Corio said that I misrepresented what he said. Nothing that he has now said would in any way make me feel that what I said was a misrepresentation, because what he has now said is that Queen's Counsel or other members of the legal world who accept appointments from a government to head commissions or other investigatory bodies are then paid off in some way. That is a major reflection on the people concerned. 
-I ask the Minister for Industrial Relations whether he is aware of reports that storemen and packers employed by Woolworths Limited in Victoria have returned to work following acceptance of an offer by Woolworths of a $10 a week wage increase. Is the Government concerned about the effects of such a decision on the consumer price index? Does the Minister share my concern about wage increases of this nature being granted outside the regular system of national wage case hearings? 
I wish to take up a couple of comments made by the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  earlier in this debate. In my view, the honourable member for Corio made very serious reflections in this House on the judiciary. He reflected on those members of the judiciary who have conducted inquiries sponsored by the Victorian Government. I refer to men such as  Mr Beach,  who is now a Supreme Court Judge, Judge Frederico and  Mr Justice  Gowans. I believe that his remarks were a disgraceful reflection on the judiciary. 
Anyone reading the headlines in the daily Press on Monday of this week perhaps could be forgiven for being beguiled into thinking that the Victorian Australian Labor Party had undergone a major ideological change at its State conference in Melbourne last weekend, and that it had thrown off its extreme left wing bias to become a party of moderation. Of course, the basic aim of the Victorian Parliamentary Labor Leader,  Mr Wilkes,  was to create this impression. I must give him full marks for trying because, after all, he will fight a State election on 5 May and he knows that his only possible hope of success must lie in his being able to fool the electorate into thinking that he is no longer controlled by the extreme left wing of the Labor movement as he has been ever since he became State leader of his party and as were his predecessors. 

 Mr Wilkes has been trying to fool the electorate for months now. He has been trying to promote the slogan that Wilkes provides a fresh approach. Some freshness! I wonder how many people know, for example, that  Mr Wilkes  has been a member of the Victorian Parliament for 22 years. Until recently no one even knew his name. Yet he has been in the Parliament for a year longer than  Mr Hamer.  He has been a member of parliament for almost as long as  Sir Henry  Bolte was a member. Yet he is still virtually unknown. But perhaps that does not matter too much because he is leader of the Victorian Labor Party in name only. The real forces and influences on the Australian Labor Party in Victoria are to be found elsewhere. They lie with men such as the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding),  who now sits opposite in this chamber. He was the leader of the Labor Party in Victoria for 10 years and is still the State  President  of the Victorian ALP. That honourable gentleman obtained his safe seat in this House in a deal with the socialist Left in Victoria, which gave the socialist Left an additional seat in the Victorian Parliament- the former seat of Richmond of the honourable member for Melbourne Ports. He is an honourable gentleman whose legal firm of Holding, Ryan and Redlich some months ago obtained the brief to handle workers' compensation cases for the communist-controlled Amalgamated Metal Workers and Shipwrights Union in exchange, it is said, for his support for two of the leaders of the extreme left wing of the Labor Party, the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  and  Senator Gietzelt,  in the Labor Party Caucus. 
-From the contribution that we have had from the Opposition today, it is quite clear that underlying this matter of public importance is, regrettably, the concept that somehow or other overseas investment in Australia, whether it be equity investment or debt investment is bad. The honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  talked about overseas investment in terms of the proportion of overseas ownership and control and the like without, as the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  has pointed out, mentioning in any way at all the tremendous contribution to Australia's development that both foreign equity and debt capital have made over the whole history of this nation, and particularly in the post war period. 
I also regret that the contribution of the honourable member for Gellibrand- I will ignore the second contribution from the Opposition- indicated to me a rather alarming lack of basic economic knowledge on the part of the person who is the shadow Treasurer. As a fellow co-student in economics of the honourable  member for Gellibrand several years ago, I can only regret that his economic expertise seems to have gone to seed in recent years. 
Amongst other things, the honourable member's contribution gave no recognition to the fact that capital does not come in specific little compartments. He talked about none of the overseas borrowings having been put directly into development projects. That, I suggest, is a complete misunderstanding of the way in which capital markets work and of the way in which capital is used to develop the resources, and potential resources, of a nation. I am sure that privately the honourable member for Gellibrand must agree with that suggestion. 
Behind the bringing foward of this matter of public importance there seemed to be four implications. The first is that the Government's borrowing of $4 billion is a sudden development. The second is that it seems to have been imposed on an unsuspecting public. The third is that the borrowings had somehow been bad for the nation. The fourth is, quite extraordinarily, that there is no difference between these borrowings and those which were contemplated by the Whitlam Government late in 1974- borrowing proposals which I am sure, as we all well know, did more than anything else to bring the Whitlam Government into disrepute, both nationally and internationally, and which were a key element leading to its eventual overwhelming defeat at the polls in December 1975. 
Not one of the four implications behind the bringing forward of this matter of public importance has any foundation at all. I would like to examine each in turn. The first two implications- that the borrowing program was a sudden development and that it was imposed on an unsuspecting public- are simply not borne out by the facts. Between July 1976 and April 1979- a period of almost 3 years- the Government has borrowed, in gross terms, the equivalent of $3,782m, or $3.7 billion, in overseas currency. It is true that it was only in 1977-78 and 1978-79 that the borrowing program was stepped up, but the Government, long before it ever undertook the new borrowing program, gave clear and public notice that it intended to pursue this policy. It did that in August 1 977, when the then Treasurer said that the Government would resume long-term official borrowings overseas to reinforce the capital account. 
On 25 August 1977, the then Treasurer announced the first of the loans in the new borrowing program. In his announcement he said,  amongst other things, that the Government would not hesitate to make further use of Australia's high international credit rating as a triple-A borrower if it considered it necessary to do so. In other words, the clearest possible indication was given of the Government's policy intentions. 
The third implication- that the borrowings have somehow been bad for the nation- really requires some examination. The borrowings have been made for two purposes: Firstly, to reinforce the capital account and, secondly, to help finance the Government's Budget deficit. The borrowings have formed part of the Commonwealth's total borrowing program; that is, a program of borrowings from both domestic and overseas sources to help finance the Government's general works and services outlays. Is it bad to borrow in order to reinforce the capital account? It can be if the borrowing is done recklessly, without regard to our capacity to repay the debt, its effect on our international credit rating or our future balance of payments outlook. But on none of these criteria can the Government's borrowing program be regarded as bad or imprudent. It has not been undertaken recklessly, it has been undertaken through the top banking and financial channels of the world, in conformity with the guidelines laid down by the Government on 17 December 1975, immediately upon its taking office. 
The House will recall that those guidelines were established to prevent a recurrence of the borrowing mayhem that so marred the performance and the integrity of the previous Labor Government when it attempted to use tenth-rate, unknown financiers such as  Mr Khemlani  to organise mythical borrowings at extortionate commissions. 
-Yes, but we have done it through responsible and long-established channels. 
I can assure the honourable member that they are not costing as much as they would have through  Mr Khemlani.  The borrowings are not outside our capacity to repay. As the Treasurer has stressed, outstanding borrowings, as a proportion of gross domestic product- that is the real test of capacity to repay- now stand at about 6 per cent. It is true that that figure is the highest that it has been during the 1970s, but it is still much lower than the percentage which applied in any year during the 1950s and 1960s. I repeat that it is not an imprudently high figure. The Opposition deserves no credit for engaging in the alarmist scare talk, which has been so evident in today's debate and on recent occasions, about the effects of our overseas borrowing. The borrowing has certainly not damaged our international credit rating in any way. Australia is still a triple A borrower. It has the highest credit rating that can be given to any borrower. It is a rating which has been carefully built up by Liberal-National Country Party governments over very many years. The borrowings have not been undertaken without regard to our future balance of payments prospects. Indeed, to the contrary, our balance of payments prospects, as the Treasurer pointed out, are strengthening, due to a variety of factors. The Government cannot claim credit for all of those factors, such as the wonderful seasonal conditions prevailing at the moment, but it can claim credit for the most important of them- that is, the restoration of greater international competitiveness by Australia as a result of sound and responsible economic policy and economic management. 
The other purpose of the overseas borrowings has been to help finance the Budget deficit. That is not bad or imprudent in itself. It does, of course, support the argument for a lower Budget deficit, the development of which most members on this side of the House would fully endorse, a development which, I mention in passing, seems to be anathema to the Opposition. But that is a different subject and I will not pursue it on this occasion. A given Budget deficit can be financed in either of two ways- by borrowing at home or by borrowing abroad. The Government has done both in a balanced and responsible manner, with an eye to the balance of payments position, the money supply and interest rates. The simple fact is that if the Government were to have borrowed less overseas and had sought to borrow more on the domestic market, it would have increased the money supply, fuelled inflation and raised interest rates. That may be the policy that the Opposition wishes to apply but it is not the policy of this Government. 
The fourth implication, and the one emphasised most by the honourable member for Gellibrand, was that the present Government's borrowing program is not different from that proposed by the former Labor Government. That, of course, is patently absurd. I have already referred to the difference in guidelines followed by this Government and the Whitlam Government. Under the Whitlam Government the Treasurer of the day had lost his traditional responsibility and authority for borrowing, and the $4,000m borrowing was left in the hands of the then Minister for Minerals and Energy. There was little or no control over the intermediaries negotiating, loans on the Government's behalf, and there were no balance of payments reasons for the Whitlam Government to borrow. But, perhaps worst of all, the Whitlam Government tried deliberately to deceive the Australian people. It tried to borrow $4,000m on terms of up to 20 years and called this 'borrowing for temporary purposes'. Does 20 years constitute a temporary borrowing? Very few people would say so.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I noticed from your words at the beginning of this debate that the matter submitted for discussion by the honourable member for Gellibrand was the only one received by  Mr Speaker  today, so that meant he had to accept it. That surely is the only conceivable reason why such a fatuous and nonsensical matter is before the House today and taking up almost an hour of our valuable time. 
-My remarks in this debate will be brief. I make it clear at the outset that I support the Government's decision in relation to the bounty to be granted for the production of the products that are the subject of the Bounty (Rotary Cultivators) Bill and that I reject the amendment moved by the Opposition. The contributions made in the debate by Opposition spokesmen concerning the Opposition's amendment and the Government's failure to give adequate explanation seem to me to ignore completely the Press statement that was put out by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  and the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch)  in February of this year when the Government's decision on the matter was first announced. I believe also that the amendment is misleading because, in essence, the Government has not rejected the Industries Assistance Commission's recommendations, particularly insofar as it has continued the upper annual limit of bounty of $60,000, which amount was recommended by the IAC. 
Far from opposing the proposition in this Bill that a bounty be accorded, I welcome it because I believe in a general sense that if we are to have in Australia, as we have to have, for manufacturing and other industries a reasonable level of protection to the extent that that is done through the public purse by way of bounty rather than in the more hidden way of tariffs or other assistance which is paid by the direct consumer of the products concerned rather than by the community as a whole, then 1 think that the bounty route is by far the more preferable to follow. If we as a nation take a decision that certain industries shall be maintained with adequate levels of assistance, it ought to be brought into the public light that that assistance is being accorded. Given that those decisions are generally taken in the national interest, the nation, broadly based through the taxpaying community, should bear the cost of that assistance rather than the consumer of the particular products. 
In recent months we have seen several bounty Bills go through the House. I believe that that is a very desirable practice and I hope that it will be continued. It does, however, make the Government's overall task of balancing its books, because of the very important concern it has for deficits, much more difficult. However, in the end I believe it is a more honest route to follow and one which, in terms of overall resource allocation throughout the community as a whole, is desirable. The Bill before the House is based on the recommendations of an IAC report. As has been said in the debate, a two-pronged reference was sent to the IAC and the Temporary Assistance Authority in October of last year. Each body was asked to produce a report on certain engines not exceeding 7.46 kilowatts, rotary cultivators, and tractors having a power of less than 15 kilowatts. 
The short term report was required to be completed within 60 days of the date of reference, which was early in October, and the full IAC report was to be completed within 12 months. So, that final report will be coming up in October of this year. As we now know, the IAC recommended bounty assistance for certain rotary cultivators, hoes and tillers. Short term assistance for the other goods under reference was not recommended by the IAC. The main 'other goods under reference' were small, stationary, horizontal shaft engines of a type manufactured by Norton Villiers Australia Pty Ltd, a company located in the city of Ballarat in my electorate. Norton Villiers is the only remaining manufacturer of small stationary horizontal shaft engines in Australia. 
I am very interested in some of the remarks made yesterday in this debate by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  and those just concluded by the honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr Kerin).  Both honourable members expressed their concern for the industry as a whole, although their concern and their remarks were directed mainly at Howard Rotavator Pty Ltd, the beneficiary of the bounty enshrined in this Bill. Certain remarks struck me as very odd and very disturbing. For example, I was astounded to hear the chief spokesman for the Opposition on the Bill, the honourable member for Adelaide, refer to this small engine firm in Ballarat as Norman Villiers. Apparently he did not know its name. However, I note that the name appears correctly in today's  Hansard.  That gives some indication of how much work he put into this matter. 
More particularly, I think the comments made by the honourable member for Werriwa are very disturbing. For example, I am astounded that the honourable member for Werriwa, who obviously had put a lot of work into his draft for today, did not know whether a Howard factory, which had been operating in Moss Vale, close to his present electorate and within the electorate he formerly represented, was still operating. That is another fair example to me of the real concern that the Opposition has about this matter. 
The implication that I do want to lay at rest- it was mentioned specifically by the honourable member for Werriwa today and the honourable member for Adelaide last evening- is the implication that this matter was referred to the IAC and the ensuing decisions made by the Government with a view to giving special treatment to Norton Villiers in Ballarat. It is true that the matter was referred to the IAC and the TAA in October 1978, several weeks before the Ballarat by-election for the Victorian State Parliament, but it is entirely wrong to say that this was occasioned by virtue of that by-election. 
If anyone had taken the care or trouble to investigate this matter he would have known that Norton Villiers has been in considerable difficulty in the production of its engines for several years. He would also have known that since I became the member for Ballarat, at the end of 1975, 1 have worked very hard indeed to inform the Government of the problems associated with that firm. As a result, successive Ministers for Industry and Commerce, the former Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, the permanent head of the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs and the  Chairman  of the IAC have been to Ballarat at my request to look at Norton Villiers, to discuss its problems and to take a real interest in it. As a result of those activities it was decided, in October 1978, that this reference was worthwhile and necessary. The fact that the Government has now taken a decision which does not provide additional short term assistance to Norton Villiers to my mind completely gives the lie to the false and mischievous imputations and references made by speakers on the other side of the House. 
Norton Villiers has a very long history. It has been established in Ballarat for approximately a quarter of a century. It was 100 per cent British owned by the Villiers Corporation of the United Kingdom until the beginning of 1978. Then the British interest was bought out by Australian interests. The honourable member for Adelaide claimed last night that special treatment had been accorded to Villiers Norton in the reference of the IAC because it was rumoured that the Australian owners were members of the Liberal Party in Ballarat. Let me assure the honourable member for Adelaide- it is very regrettable that these statements are made without research being done- that that rumour, to my knowledge, is not true. 
As I have said, the IAC recommended no short term assistance for Norton Villiers engine production, mainly because it concluded that in the short term it seemed unlikely that activity and employment would not be lower than if the requested assistance of quotas plus bounties were granted. Other criticisms were made by the IAC on the basis of evidence given about the design and user acceptability of the engines. A great deal of emphasis seemed to be placed on the weight of the Norton Villiers engines, which are cast iron engines, compared with imported engines, many of which are made from alloys. It is a fact- this was not countermanded in the report- that Norton Villiers claims that there is little difference in weight in all makes of engines up to 7.5 kilowatts. The IAC also took the view that in the event that Norton Villiers ceased operations, the loss of employment could be offset by additional employment in user industries if engines were subsequently admitted free of duty. However, the Commission was unable to say how long such action would take or give the locations involved, other than to say that the locations would be in areas other than Ballarat. 
In logic and in the overall national interest I cannot oppose the Government's decision in relation to the engines manufactured by Norton Villiers if the evidence and the analysis on which that decision was based is sound. I would have to say, without unduly criticising the IAC or the content of the IAC report, that I believe, on a close reading of the report, that it has certain potential deficiencies. I regret that the IAC did not see fit to recommend some assistance for the company in the same way that Howards is being assisted, until such time as the full and final IAC report comes out in October of this year. As I have already said, it could be that a decision along these lines would not have provided Norton Villiers with the real assistance and market acceptability that it required. Certainly, the result in the present case is that Norton Villiers is now in a very critical position. It is possible that that would have been the case in any event. But it is a fact that three weeks ago 40 employees were retrenched from the company, bringing its work force down to, I think, fewer than 100 employees. The future of the company may be determined finally one way or the other within the next few months. 
I and others in my electorate have been working very hard to save the company and to get it additional work in areas other than engine manufacture because the facilities of Norton Villiers in Ballarat include, amongst other things, the best machine room and machining facilities of any engineering operation of its size in Australia. What we would like to see and what may well prove the salvation of the company is firms with machining requirements looking at the facilities that Norton Villiers has to offer with a view to determining whether, on a no favours and full price and quality comparative basis, there is work that that company could do which it has not been doing in the past and which would assist companies in other areas. 
I think that the IAC report and the Government's decision highlight the problems of many manufacturing industries in non-metropolitan areas. I believe that everyone should accept that no government can or should insulate all companies or industries from changing market circumstances, changing technology and the like. It is up to the companies themselves to do so. But governments do have a responsibility in changing circumstances and where the decisions that they take as to the level of assistance or other measures relate directly to the activities of a particular company, to ensure that those changes or decisions are implemented in such a way that the economic and social dislocative effects, particularly in country areas, of rapid changes facing industries and companies, especially those in the manufacturing area, can be minimised without insulating for all time the companies from change. This is undesirable from everyone's point of view. 
I believe that many of the points that I have raised are matters for debate and comment within the bounds of the Crawford committee of inquiry. I am sure that the Government will give that report the very careful consideration that it deserves so that we can continue the process that was started when this government came to office three or four years ago of getting Australian industry back on its feet in a fully competitive and viable manner. 
-My remarks tonight are, I hope, the first in a series of some 10 adjournment debate speeches which members on this side of the House hope to make over the next couple of weeks on various aspects of the economic situation facing the Government and the policy options open to the Government in tackling these situations. I will attempt to couch my remarks in non-technical language because I believe that one of the problems the Government has in its communications with the Australian public is some lack of explaining its policies in simple terms. Tonight I want to talk about the effects of Budget deficits. 
The deficit is simply the gap between the amount a government spends and the amount it raises in taxes and other charges such as excise on petrol, cigarettes and the like. This gap has to be financed by borrowing. Like any other organisation, such as a company, the Government's books must, in simple accounting terms, balance. With a Budget deficit the gap is filled by borrowing. The Government can borrow in one of three ways: It can borrow from overseas; it can borrow internally from the non-banking public; or it can borrow internally from the banking system, including the Reserve Bank of Australia. 
A Budget deficit has two effects: A fiscal effect and a monetary effect. Although both can be considered separately they are in fact closely interwoven. It used to be assumed in the Keynesian economic literature that a Budget deficit was automatically expansionary in a fiscal policy sense. Therefore, in an economy where there was a lack of sufficient overall demand to employ people in the work force and to keep industry working at a high level of capacity, the theory ran that government should add to overall aggregate demand by running a Budget deficit. Conversely the theory said that at a time of excessive demand, the Government should reduce its net call on resources by running a Budget surplus. 
This theory assumed a world in which we no longer live. In particular, it assumed that the prices of the factors of production, including labour, would move upwards or downwards in real terms depending on the demand for them. This is no longer so- if it ever was. For one thing, the strength of the trade union movement in protecting real income ensures that. The theory also suffered from the major weakness of largely ignoring monetary effects of a Budget deficit. These monetary effects appear to have assumed increasing importance and significance in recent times. 
Nowadays, the rate of growth of the money supply is generally regarded as being of great importance- although not necessarily of sole importance- in influencing the level of inflation. It is also, nowadays, generally accepted that a high level of inflation leads to increased unemployment and a reduced level of economic growth. A reduced level of economic growth in turn makes it more difficult for the community as a whole, generally working through the Government, to provide those welfare, education, health, and other services that modern communities seem increasingly to demand. The larger the Government deficit the larger the rate of increase in the rate of growth of the money supply, other things being equal. To maintain an increase in the money supply sufficient to provide for economic growth without at the same time being inflationary, if the Government's contribution- via its Budget deficit- to the money supply increases, the less must be the contribution by the non-government, or private sector. 
If the honourable member were to listen, he would learn something. For example, if the desired increase in the money supply in a particular year is say 10 per cent and the Government is contributing say 6 per cent of this 10 per cent, then that only leaves 4 per cent increase for the private sector. On the other hand, if the Government's Budget deficit contributed only 4 per cent of the 10 per cent increase, then this would leave 6 per cent for the private sector- in other words, 50 per cent more for the private sector than in my first example. 
Therefore, if the Government pre-empts a large amount of the increase in the money supply to itself, this tends to starve the private sector of funds unless highly inflationary conditions are created. The result is a squeeze on the private sector and an increase in the rates of interest to be paid for money by the private sector. This in turn has serious adverse effects on private sector activity and, therefore, on employment. It must never be forgotten that it is the private sector in Australia which provides 75 per cent of all jobs. 
The simple fact is that over the past five years successive Federal governments in Australia have been running very large deficits which have had major detrimental effects on the private sector. It may be thought, and, indeed, this may be so, that a policy of returning to a situation of healthy and economic private sector growth in this country through severe restraint on government spending, through increases in taxation or a combination of both, may have short-term difficulties, but the long-term difficulties are much more significant. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I preface my question, which is directed to the Minister for National Development, by referring to the Government's highly commendable policies designed to encourage the conservation of oil and, within this context, the encouragement of motorists to switch from petrol to liquefied petroleum gas. I ask the Minister: Is it a fact that this policy is encountering two practical difficulties at this stage- firstly, a shortage of LPG outlets, particularly in nonmetropolitan areas, and, secondly, a shortage of LPG conversion kits? If these practical difficulties exist, will the Minister inform the House of the steps that the Government and industry are taking to alleviate them? 
I would like tonight to raise an issue, and to support the remarks made last night by the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes),  concerning the problem that has arisen for the Apex organisations in Australia through the failure of Australia Post to agree to the issuing of a commemorative stamp in 1981 to mark the 50th anniversary of Apex. I must say that I find this decision extraordinary. I think that as a Parliament we ought to exercise our voice in the matter and do all that we can on a collective basis to encourage Australia Post to change the decision. As I understand it, Australia Post rejected the application essentially on the grounds that Apex is not regarded as a sufficiently widely significant national organisation. That is really extraordinary. Apex, for example, is the only major service organisation operating in Australia that originated in Australia. It is now actively represented throughout the whole of the nation and it has spread to ten other countries. 
Yes. Geelong is rightly proud of it and we in Ballarat have very strong Apex representation, as I am sure most electorates do. There are currently nearly 800 Apex clubs and over 1 8,000 current members. Because Apexians have to retire at the age of forty years, the total number of Australians who have had active involvement in Apex is far higher than this figure. Over the past 48 years of service Apex has made a very significant achievement in service to the Australian community. For example, it helped to set up the Flying Doctor Service; it established the Association of Civilian Widows; and it substantially aided Foundation 41. It raised well over $lm for the Children's Leukemia and Cancer Foundation. It was responsible for helping to set up the now successful tuberculosis eradication campaign and it has substantially aided many other projects and organisations including the Bush Nursing Scheme, Aid to Autism, baby health centres, Aid to Spastics and Aid to Multiple Sclerosis. The recognition arising from a stamp issue would aid Apex in its endeavour of service to the community in Australia. In view of the state of the nation today, anything that can be done to encourage greater community service must surely be applauded and encouraged wherever possible. 
A stamp issue would heighten community awareness of and respect for Apex and serve as a public relations boost that would assist Apex in its fund-raising operations on behalf of very worthwhile organisations throughout the land. As well it would give public recognition to the many young men who are currently serving or have served their community through Apex. It would also be of international interest to the many Apex clubs which have been formed throughout South East Asia to know that the Government of the founding country of Apex is prepared to give recognition to the organisation. 
Many organisations have been granted stamp issues to mark anniversaries. They include Lions, Rotary and the Young Women's Christian Association. I find the rejection of Apex as an organisation worthy of recognition at a time when Australia Post has just completed a series of stamps in recognition of Australia's great race horses, and I am interested in racing, to be very inconsistent and difficult to follow. I hope that Australia Post will reconsider this matter. I hope that we as individual members of this Parliament and the Parliament itself will use whatever influence we can to bring about a change in what I regard as a very unfortunate decision. 
-First of all I express my disappointment that the instigator of this so-called matter of public importance, the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  has obviously felt that it was not worth while to stay in the House to listen to the remainder of this debate. Not only has he not listened to the debate at all, but also he has not given the second  speaker  from his side the courtesy of listening to him. In other words he insulted his own party, the Parliament and, I believe, the nation. Perhaps the reason for the rapid disappearance from the chamber of the Leader of the Opposition is that from what he said today, which was very much the same as what he said in his speech last night, it seems to be patently clear that either the Leader of the Opposition has not read the Budget or if he has read the Budget he has either deliberately or mistakenly misread it. Perhaps mistakenly I cherish would be the more appropriate term. 
I think the editorial in today's  Australian Financial Review  sums up his speech as a cynical, calculated political approach to the real economic problems of this nation. It states: 

 Mr Hayden 's approach is disingenuous and calculatingly so. He is playing to the basest emotions of the community at a time when a more responsible leader would be acknowledging the great difficulties facing the economy. 
I will now refer to a few facts because we have not heard one from the other side of the House. Despite the working of the matter of public importance today, it is a fact that disposable income has risen each year since 1975. It is a fact that total revenue from personal income taxes has been more than $3,000m less since December 1975 than it would have been under the 1975 Budget introduced by the then Treasurer and now Leader of the Opposition. That reduction has arisen as a result of the responsible, positive and innovative measures of the present Government. As to this year's Budget, it is a fact that from 1 December 1979 every income taxpayer in Australia will pay less tax than he now pays. The rate of taxation will fall by 2.57 per cent. As a proportion of the total income tax that he pays that figure is closer, I believe, to a fall of 7 per cent or more depending on his income. It is a fact that as from 1 December this year a person on average weekly earnings will be paying $16 a week less tax than a person on average weekly earnings would have been paying had the 1 975 Hayden tax scales still been in operation. Not only that, but also, half a million taxpayers who would have paid tax under the previous scales will be now not paying tax. 
Let us look at what has happened in other areas as a result of the Budget. Six-monthly indexation of all pensions has been restored; extra income limits have been raised for pensioners entitled to pensioner health benefits; new benefits have been introduced for repatriation pensioners. In the private sector there has been a much needed relief for small businesses through an easing of Division seven. Income and employment generating incentives have been offered to the private sector. Why does not the Opposition mention some of those matters? Why does not the Opposition mention some of the other Budget announcements which in one way or another benefit millions of Australians? For example, there will be an additional 1 1 per cent spent on community health this year, an additional 16 per cent on the education program for unemployed youth, an easing of the means test for student assistance schemes, a 45 per cent increase in national drug education and a 29 per cent increase in additional funds for school dental schemes. They are just a few examples of what this Budget contains for the people of Australia. 
We do have problems in this country and it would be stupid to deny that. They are problems which if not tackled will erode the living standards of all Australians. We too are concerned about that. The prime objective of this Government is to prevent an erosion of living standards. The question that ought to be asked is: What alternative policies would serve Australia's interest better than those which this Government has persued? There are some very strong advocates for the Government's present policy. The annual report of the Reserve Bank, which came out last week, very strongly endorsed the general thrust of the Government's policy line. It pointed out that it could not think of any better alternatives either. I remind the House that a distinguished member of the Reserve Bank of Australia is the leader of the Australian Council of Trade Unions,  Mr Hawke. 
Let us look at what Labor is proposing now and what it did when it was last in office. Firstly, let us look at what it did when last in office. We know what the end results were, but let us look at some of the details. Let us look at personal income tax collections in real terms payasyouearn tax collections, when Labor was in office, discounting for inflation. This year regrettably we are to have a 4.5 per cent rise in total payasyouearn tax collections. That means a rise of about $300m in 1974-75 tax dollars despite the fact that from 1 December every taxpayer will be paying less tax than he otherwise would pay. It is a rise which is perhaps unfortunate but obviously necessary. Have a look at what happened when Labor was in office. PA YE taxes, that is basically the taxes of the average worker in Australia, rose in real terms by 14.5 per cent in one of the years that Labor was in office. The facts are that in 
1973- 74 - 
-In real terms. Net real PA YE tax collections in 1974-75 rose by $1.1 billion. Members of the Opposition have expressed concern about rising health costs. We too expressed concern about the rising health costs. But let us look at the facts. The facts are that the spiral in health costs started while Labor was in office. The increase in health costs while Labor was in office was 126 per cent in a period of three years. During the last three years health costs have been still too high and have risen too quickly, but the rate of increase has been cut to 26 per cent. Labor has attempted to make much capital out of the question of tax avoidance schemes. Let me remind the House that when Labor was in office it introduced not one measure to block any tax loophole. The amount of work and dedicated effort that the present Treasurer and the present Government have put into the effort of blocking tax loopholes in the last three years is something to be commended by the whole of our nation. 
What is Labor proposing now? It is proposing even higher oil levies. It is proposing retrospective taxation. It is proposing a capital gains tax. It is proposing a resources tax. It is also proposing more and more spending on government programs of the type which became, by bitter experience, so discredited when Labor was last in office. Worst of all it has produced not one costing to support its spending proposals. In other words, the deficit will blow out higher and higher. With Labor in office we would be back completely to the situation in which we were in 1974- 75, a situation which ruined this country, which produced record inflation, record increases in unemployment, record interest rates and record decreases in production in this country. The Labor Party may not be prepared to face facts, to be realistic, to take the Australian people into its confidence. The speech of the Leader of the Opposition today shows conclusively that Labor is not prepared to do these things. But let me assure him and the Australian people,  Mr and Mrs Australia  about whom he speaks, while in the same breath mouthing policies that will do great damage to them and their families, that this Government will not refuse to face the facts. This Government will not abrogate its responsibilities. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. The discussion is concluded. 
-I ask the Minister for National Development: Is it a fact that under the Government's decentralisation program the firm of McCain Australia Pty Ltd in my electorate has received a loan of $370,000 to help finance a major expansion of its operations, and that this decision has been welcomed throughout my electorate? Is it also a fact that this expansion has already led to the creation of jobs during the construction stage and will lead to the creation of new and permanent jobs when production commences in the next week or so, and that the potato growing industry throughout the central highlands region of Victoria will benefit significantly? Finally, I ask whether the abolition of this program, as advocated by some leading members of the Opposition, would lead to the destruction of jobs in areas about which the Australian Labor Party professes to express concern. 
-In the adjournment debate on the night of Tuesday, 25 September the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  raised the question of telephone charges between parts of his electorate and Melbourne and he referred in particular to the town of Woodend. He made some very misleading remarks in his statement that night. I would like to set the record straight tonight. I do so because although Woodend is in the electorate of the honourable member for Burke it was until the last redistribution in my electorate. I understand from talking with the people of Woodend- as I continue to do- that the honourable member for Burke still needs a road map to find the place and that he rarely attends that part of his electorate, as is the case with most other rural parts of his electorate. 
The honourable member for Burke suggested in his remarks the other night that it was the Government that had taken a decision which had the effect of depriving Woodend from being in the nearest telephone zone to Melbourne. That is totally incorrect. I am sure that the honourable member would know that earlier this year Telecom Australia completed a comprehensive review of the telephone zoning and charging practices throughout Australia. In that review Telecom took account of the fact that many areas on the urban fringe have business and social links with capital cities. However, as has been pointed out repeatedly by Telecom and subsequently by the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley),  the extension of full local call facilities to areas around metropolitan centres would be very costly and would raise questions of relevant equity with other telephone customers. 
You could do with one. As a compromise the concept of a community call extending subscriber access at a charging rate of 9c for each three minutes to the nearest service town with reasonable facilities was proposed and adopted Australia-wide. As a result of that most rural areas in Australia have benefited significantly by a reduction in telephone charges in their areas. 
In the case of Romsey, which was the other town that the honourable member for Burke mentioned, the charging zone adjoins the outer metropolitan area, and that zone area was included therefore in the Community Access 80 Scheme. However, the zone which includes Woodend does not adjoin the outer metropolitan zone and will not have community call access to Melbourne at this stage. I repeat that this was a decision as a result of a review by Telecom, not by the Government. If community call facilities were extended to Woodend anomalies would be created which would result in a breach of one of the major principles of the Community Access 80 Scheme, that is, that no call charges should be increased. Day rates for shorter distance subscriber trunk dialling calls were reduced significantly in November 1978 and Telecom is, as I understand it, constantly seeking further to reduce call charges as economic conditions permit. That is something for which I know many honourable members, including me, have been pressing for a long time. The solution of this problem of telephone charges in rural areas will be solved in the end by a progressive widening of the zones. 
Despite the concern that the honourable member for Burke purported in his comments to have, it appears from his comments that he has not made representations on this matter to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. I might say that I have because I know that since 1977 the people of Woodend have not received the service that they deserve from their local member. I hope that these comments will set the record straight a little in terms of the very misleading remarks that the honourable member for Burke made the other night. 
-Does the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs recall visiting the city of Ballarat last week to launch officially a new Careers Information Centre and a new task force on transition from school to work? Is he aware that this task force has been formed as the result of the combined initiative of educationists, employers, trade unions, youth organisations and other relevant bodies in the Ballarat region? Is this transition task force the first of its kind in Australia? Is it an example of the type of total community involvement which the Minister has had in mind in his recent statements about the need to develop new policy initiatives to enable young people to make a successful transition from school into the work force? 
-by leave-As a member of the delegation that visited France, the European Parliament and the Commission of the European Communities, I would like briefly to endorse your remarks,  Mr Speaker,  in tabling the report of the delegation and also the remarks of the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes). Mr Speaker,  I wish to thank you very much, from my own point of view and I know from the point of view of other members of the delegation, for the tremendous leadership you gave to that delegation. It was an important delegation. I thought that the way in which you led it was extremely admirable and that that went a long way towards making the visit as successful at it was. I would also like to thank my other colleagues on the delegation from both sides of this House and the other place for making the trip as interesting and worthwhile as it was. I join you,  Mr Speaker,  in thanking the officers who accompanied us, particularly the secretary of the delegation,  Mr Phillip  Bush, and the officers of the Department of Foreign Affairs who helped us so much in the various centres that we visited. I also express my thanks to those members of the French National Assembly who took great care in arranging our itinerary in France and whose assistance to us while we were there, I think, went well beyond the call of duty. 
I really do believe that the visit was important in helping further to forge closer links between Australia and France and with the other countries of Europe. As the honourable member for Corio has said, western Europe is still of enormous importance on the world scene. That certainly applies no less to Australia than it does to other nations. I think it is of great importance that we get closer to Europe by increasing our contacts with European countries. We already have many contacts, particularly at the ministerial level, the official level and in the private enterprise or business world, but there certainly has not been sufficient contact between parliamentarians. Our visit has helped at least in some small way to fill this breach. I hope it is the forerunner of further closer links being forged in the future- There is no doubt at all that European parliamentarians want closer contact with their Australian counterparts. It was very interesting to learn, for instance, that within the French Parliament the Australia-France Parliamentary Friendship Committee is the largest of all such committees. 
I do not want to take up too much of the time of the House, but there are just two matters that I would like to refer to briefly. The first is the strength of the impression that certainly I obtained from the visit as to the importance of the further development of the nuclear generation of electricity for the future standard of living in Europe. Time and time again the energy crisis was raised with us and time and time again those who raised this matter with us stressed the need for Europe to proceed with its nuclear development program. Europe is doing just that. For example, 25 per cent of France's electricity output is already provided from nuclear sources. Within five years this will rise to 50 per cent. Forty per cent of Belgium's electricity is already nuclear generated and within five years this will rise to 60 per cent. The same pattern is emerging in many other European countries. I think the point that should not be lost on us in Australia is that these developments will occur. No attitude of ours to oppose the mining and exporting of Australian uranium will change this. All that would happen would be that we in Australia would lose out on markets to the rest of the world, to the detriment of the living standards not only of the world but also of all Australians. 
The other matter I want to mention briefly relates to the new Mirage 2000 tactical fighter, which is one of the four remaining contenders as a replacement for Australia's existing Mirage tactical fighter force. The description of the delegation 's visit to the Mirage test flight centre at Istres in the south of France is contained in the report. I commend a very careful reading of it to honourable members. I would like to place on record how impressed I was with what I saw at Istres and with the discussions we had with senior executives of the Dassault organisation, the manufacturer of the Mirage. I am not a technical expert in the area of military aviation but I would say that the effort and the quality of that effort which Dassault has put into preparing its tender to the Australian Government for the tactical fighter force replacement is highly commendable. I was particularly impressed with its proposals for Australian participation in its program. 
I conclude on the note on which I began, that is, of thanking you very much,  Mr Speaker,  and all the others associated with the delegation for making the visit to France, the European Parliament and the EEC not only very enjoyable but also, I believe, very worth while. 
I intended to say many things on these two Bills, both of which I support, but I have only a couple of minutes available to me in which to speak. Therefore, I concentrate my remarks on picking up some of the comments made by the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  who talked about government irresponsibility in relation to the rural sector. I thought that the honourable member for Corio must surely have had a fundamental aberration. No government in Australia's history acted with such great irresponsibility towards one section of our nation as did the Whitlam Government towards the rural sector. The honourable member for Corio mentioned the withdrawal of benefits by this Government from the rural sector. He obviously forgot what happened when Labor was in office. I refer to the abolition of the superphosphate bounty and the fuel price equalisation scheme, currency changes which mortally damaged the rural sector, and savage inflation which caused devastation to the rural sector in the form of crippling cost increases. 
The floor price for wool is another example. The Labor Government also caused major interest rate increases which added very greatly to farmers' debt structures as well as huge increases in inflation induced tax rip-offs which went to finance the insatiable demands of the Whitlam spending machine. So much for what Labor did to the rural sector while in government. It almost brought the rural sector to total and irretrievable ruin. Honourable members should contrast that with what the Liberal-National Country Party Government has done since it returned to office in 1975. Firstly, it has brought down inflation very substantially. No measure can be taken which is of greater assistance to the rural sector than that. It has also had an equivalent beneficial effect on interest rates. The work that the Government has done in developing overseas markets and assisting the rural sector in that area has been of major achievement and benefit. 
It has done many other things. It has abolished estate and gift duties in many cases, improved tax averaging, introduced income equalisation deposits and established the Primary Industry Bank of Australia. I know that Opposition members think that PIBA is a worthless organisation. Let me assure them that thousands of farmers in Australia are benefiting for the first time from the ability to get long term funds at reasonable interest rates. Other measures have been the reintroduction of fuel price equalisation, assistance to the beef industry when it was in desperate straights and major restructuring assistance to the dairy industry. The farmers know this full well. They showed Labor what they thought of it in 1975 and 1977. They will do so again in 1980. They will vote against Labor for two basic reasons. Firstly, they know from bitter experience what a Labor Government did to them in 1972 to 1975 and what it would certainly do again if it ever regained office. Secondly, they know that a Liberal-National Country Party Government understands them. It has their interests at heart, not in any sycophantic way but in a balanced way which takes account of our nation's overall interest. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
