 We have just listened to a quite remarkable speech. No speech could be more calculated to barm a major institution which has been set up under our Constitution, Fortunately, it will not do the harm it was calculated to do because, pitched in such exaggerated and extreme terms, it is identified as being quite irresponsible and uninformed. Quite clearly it is designed to achieve a political aim and not to contribute to the welfare of the people the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  claims to support, namely the professional engineers of Australia. 
The honourable member said that the Opposition would be refused more than one  speaker.  It is true that there will be only one  speaker  on each side of the House, but the honourable member did not say that there were discussions beforehand and that no arrangement could be reached. Before referring to the professional engineers case, I wish to deal with two other matters which were also raised by the honourable member. The first concerned equal pay. In the terms of his letter there were unjustdecisions and submissions, including one on equal pay. How could there have been unjust decisions or submissions when the Commonwealth, as an employer, has applied equal pay on margins over a long period of time and, subsequent to the decision of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission which -was referred to, has been applying that decision? At this point of time equal pay is applied at a 90% rate; in 1971 it will be 95% and the full 100% will be applied in 1972. When the Commonwealth intervened in the equal pay case it intervened on the basis that it supported equal pay for work of a like kind. How can it be unjust? On the contrary, the Government was putting the proposition that it supported equal pay for work of a like kind. In putting that submission the Commonwealth made it clear that it was on the same basis as the equal pay provisions in New South Wales and Tasmania and was supported by an International Labour Organisation convention. So much for the matter of equal pay. 
As for the matter of 4 weeks annual leave, which was alluded to briefly and passed over, I would like the House to be aware that it has been refused at the request of the associations. I would like the House to bear in mind that we have in Australia at the present time a tight labour market. It should be obvious logic to everybody that more annual leave will require one of two things - either the employment of additional work force to make up the time lost by recreation or the working of more overtime. If the extra leave of 1 week were granted and the additional work force were recruited to make up the time lost it is estimated that it would cost the Commonwealth $25m per annum. If that provision of 4 weeks annual leave flowed on into the community generally and if it were covered by employing extra staff, it is estimated that the cost would be $290m. But if it were covered by working overtime instead of employing more staff the cost would be greater. 
There are existing pressures on the economy and on the labour market and it is the opinion of the Government that this is not the time to grant additional annual leave of 1 week. I should draw the attention of the House to comparisons with overseas countries. Our annual leave provisions are as good as those in any other country. In many countries there are no provisions for long service leave and fewer public holidays than workers in Australia enjoy. 
Let me turn to the professional engineers' case. It is worth while briefly reiterating the accusation made by the honourable member for Hindmarsh. He alleged that the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, composed of three men who, under the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act, are entitled to the right, style and privilege of judges - who are regarded as judges in their actions, their responsibilities and their independence - was submissive to political pressure. That is a calumny of which I did not think the honourable member capable. He alleged also that the Government applied that political pressure. He described the Public Service Board's action as unilateral. Well, in that sense I suppose it was because the Board made the decision and paid the rates. The honourable member alleged that this was done 4 weeks before the general election with a promise implicit that there would be much more after the election. He then said: Imagine the shock when, after the election, there was not a lot more. I think he has disclosed to the nation what would be the attitude of the Australian Labor Party to independent judicial commissions if it were in government. He would not for a moment refrain from attempting to apply political pressure to those independent bodies. I am glad to say that such is the quality and the integrity of the men who constitute those commissions that they would tell him where to go. Perhaps it might be a good thing if this were done. These men who have been so traduced by the honourable member are men whom I happen to know personally - whom I have known for a number of years and before whom I have appeared. Any man who knows them would be proud to stand here and say that he knows them - that he knows their quality. Anybody who knows them would, when an attack of this type is made upon them, feel a duty to disclose to the House and to anybody listening to the debate or anybody who wishes to report it, that they are men of character, chosen for their character. I know of no greater insult, slander or defamation - choose what term you will - than the allegation that they are subject to political influence or that they are not their own masters. 
The honourable member has asked what is the answer to the case. He had only one case, and that was that these men were subjected to political pressure and that they are not independent. I was surprised that the honourable member should reiterate the allegation, for it is a practice of this House that the independence and integrity of the judiciary will always be protected. I have never heard them attacked from the front bench of the Opposition before. In the engineers' case a decision was given which the professional engineers did not like. Let us be clear about that: The Professional Engineers' Association and individual professional engineers did not like the decision. 
There is laughter in the ranks of the Opposition. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition says that to claim that the decision was not popular is an understatement. But this explains why the honourable member for Hindmarsh has spoken in the intemperate terms which he used: He wants to make a political issue out of this even if it means traducing the members of the Arbitration Commission. 
The engineers claimed an increase of 45% in salaries. They asked the Public Service Board, which under the provisions of the statute has the primary wage fixing responsibility, to grant interim increases in salary. There was argument at the time as lo whether the Public Service Board should grant interim increases and the Board, exercising its responsibility, decided not to grant interim increases. The matter went before the Commission and the parties presented exhaustive arguments to support their claims. The honourable member for Hindmarsh has made allegations of deliberate time wasting on the part of the Board and the employers. I have never heard that allegation made by the associations. However, after the associations had finished their case the Board was called upon by the Commission to state its view in precise terms and to give its response to the case made by the associations. The Board responded that it believed that the rate of increase should be between 11% and 15% for grades 1 to 5 of engineers. It was because the Commission asked the Board to state clearly its view that the Board did so. Having stated that it believed that the engineers should get increases of between 11% and 15%, the Board paid those increases. There would have been reason for complaint if having stated that it believed increases of between 11% and 15% should be paid the Board did not pay them, but it did pay them. 
The honourable member for Hindmarsh made the remarkable statement that the associations were entitled to expect that they would have a majority because two of the members of the bench - the presiding judge,  Mr Justice  Wright, and Commissioner Portus - had sat on an earlier engineers' case and granted big increases. This had involved a new provision for engineers which was a landmark in their view. The honourable member said that the engineers were entitled to expect big increases because they already had a majority, and they were shocked that they did not get them. It is worth while looking at the decisions of these judges, put into the perspective of the claim made. I will read from page 8 of the roneoed copy of the judgment delivered by  Mr Justice  Wright. He said: 
The Public Service Board's new rates were announced before final addresses commenced in the present proceedings, which enabled discussions of them by advocates on both sides. As regards counsel for employers in the Conciliation and Arbitration Act cases it may be stated that none of them seriously challenged the fairness of the new Public Service rates - although  Mr Robinson- 
He was counsel for the employers - at one stage referred to them as 'over generous' - or the precedent established by the 1961 decision of national minimum rates in the base grade. 
Another extract that ought to be brought to the attention of the House is from page 7 of the roneod copy of the joint majority decision of  Mr Justice  Moore and  Mr Arbitrator  Chambers. It reads: 
The action taken by the Public Service Board has introduced a new element into these proceedings. It has not, however, relieved us- 
That is the Commission - of the responsibility of making a proper assessment of the salaries of professional engineers. We have endeavoured, independently of the Board's decision, to give proper weight to the material put. That material does in our view disclose that there have been in recent years developments which warrant increased salaries for professional engineers and we must assess what the increases should be. Taking all factors into account, we consider that as an act of value judgment we would, even if the Board had taken no action, have arrived at increases substantially similar to those which the Board has awarded. When to that is added the fact that the Board, an important primary wage fixing tribunal and a significant employer of professional engineers, has fixed these rates, we are prepared to treat them as proper rates and to make determinations accordingly. 
They did it in the full knowledge of their responsibility. I think it can properly be said that in the event two members of the Public Service Arbitration Act bench -  Mr Justice  Moore and  Mr Arbitrator  Chambers - decided to treat the Board's rates as proper rates and to make determinations accordingly. The presiding member of the two benches -  Mr Justice  Wright - and  Mr Commissioner  Portus were of the view that higher rates were warranted. But had they reached a majority view in the case relating to engineers outside the Service the result would have been relatively small differential rates outside the Commonwealth Public Service area. 
Motion (by  Mr Snedden)  put: 
That the business of the day be called on. 
1 do recall my colleague making a statement of this kind. He had the responsibility of office at the time and discharged that responsibility of office as he saw fit. I do not quarrel with what he said. He discharged the responsibility according to his own light. But to carry the matter a stage further, the implication in the question is that because the Minister for Labour and National Service said that at that time one can conclude that the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission took note of it and was in some way forced into following what the Government demands that it do. This was the basis of what the honourable member said yesterday. At that time he put it in the most intemperate language and made allegations against the Commission and the Government for which he had no warrant at all and I take this opportunity to deny those allegations completely. There is hardly any need for denial because the standing of the Commission, its independence and its judicial status go without the need of defence for anybody except somebody like the honourable member who is looking for a political vehicle. But another point should emerge, that is, that the Commission recently accepted all of the submissions made by  Mr Hawke  as an advocate for the unions. Are we therefore to say that Commission is a rubber stamp of the present  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions? When  Mr Commissioner  Winter accepted the submissions of the unions in relation to equal pay in the metal trades industry, are we therefore to say that  Mr Commissioner  Winter was under the influence of the unions? 
The fact of the matter is that unions - organised workers and organised employers - and the Government operate in a tripartite manner in industrial relations and before the Commission and. by statute, the Commonwealth should intervene on matters of public importance. That was never contested by the Opposition at any time, whether in government or in opposition. The Government pursues that course of intervention in that tripartite sense, and it is pointless to say that the Commission is under the influence of any of the three parties when it does what any of the three parties wants in a particular case. The fact is that all parties have to take the decisions of the independent judicial body as it gives them. To put it in the short term, they need to take the good with the bad and, after the decision is given, to honour the decision and apply it. 
Official stop work meetings are to be held tomorrow in Sydney, Brisbane, Hobart and Fremantle. I fear that those four official stop work meetings will be extended into 24-hour stoppages. The Waterside Workers Federation of Australia has claims before the national conference of parties interested in the stevedoring industry. Those claims were made orally for the first time on 4th February this year. On 1 1th February the claims were put in writing and the employers, who are fellow members of the conference, asked for documentation to support the claims. On 4th March the conference met and discussed the claims for the first time. The next meeting of the conference is scheduled for 20th March, when, presumably, the claims will be revived for further discussion. 
I am informed that last week the Federal Council of the Waterside Workers Federation of Australia met in Sydney and there passed a resolution, the tenor of which I believe to be a recommendation that there be an all-port national stoppage commencing on 21st March to pursue these claims, and further that when the stoppage occurs on 21st March there not be another meeting of the Waterside Workers Federation branches in each of those ports until 25th March; which means that there will be a 5-day all-port stoppage throughout Australia. The meetings tomorrow, I believe, will be held in order to consider the Federal Council's resolution. I am bound to say that I deprecate the possibility that there will be stoppages of this magnitude - with their obvious harm to Australian industry, commerce and the general welfare of the people - while claims are before the national conference, which has the support of all parties including the Waterside Workers Federation and the employers. 
I am unable to say, naturally enough, what will be the attitude of the employers to these claims but it is significant that the proposed strike action is scheduled to be held the very day after the next meeting of the national conference, which no doubt has been selected in order to exert/some pressure for the granting of the claims. The final point I would make in this factual statement is that 25th March, when the proposed strike, if it be held, would end would leave just one working day before the Easter break. I have no doubt that the importance and the significance of that point would not escape the honourable member or any member of the House who has any experience in this area. I can only say that I do deprecate very greatly the possibility of this direct action in this manner at a time when claims are before the national conference, which has the support of all parties including the Waterside Workers Federation. In anticipation of this matter arising I did write a letter on, 1 think, 26th February to the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions drawing his attention to the way in which things were shaping and asking him to use all the power he possesses to ensure that wiser counsel will prevail in the Waterside Workers Federation. 
I am aware that there is a faction fight in the Communist Party of Australia. In many ways it parallels the faction fight that we have seen so often in ' the Australian Labor Party. It is true that Communists occupy positions in the trade union movement of Australia - significant offices very often. The method by which they come to these offices is by applying themselves assiduously to the affairs of a union. They do this for the reason that they can attain positions of power and influence. Having attained the positions they then apply themselves, again assiduously, to the affairs of the union to hold their offices. Having obtained and held their offices they then not merely pursue the industrial interests of the unions but also use their positions of power and influence to pursue their political or disruptive policies. What the Government has done is lo provide, in the conciliation and arbitration legislation, provisions for secret ballots or for members of unions to require an election for offices of unions. There are a number of provisions in the Act, unfortunately not used as frequently as they ought to be. Apart from the legislation, I can only say, as I have already said today, that I draw the attention of good trade unionists in Australia to the way in which they are so often misused by these people whom they have elected to office believing they would serve their interests but who, in fact, are serving their own political interests. 
There were three sections to the question. The answer to the first is yes. The answer to the second is yes. In the third section I am asked whether I will do something if I find out something. I will make a decision as to what I will do when 1 find out. 
There was a number of stop work meetings yesterday. Some of them were authorised, under the terms of the award, for 4 hours. Others were stoppages for 24 hours. Whether there will be a strike on the waterfront, as appears to be a possibility, I am unable to say at this stage. There ought not to be a stoppage, because there exists a National Conference which all parties attend and which all parties support. The purpose of the National Conference is to resolve claims such as this. I would remind the honourable gentleman of what I said on Tuesday, that the claim is a very young one in terms of time and  it  has been considered only at erne meeting of the National Conference, ft does provide means to negotiate between parties and to settle the matters in dispute. I would hope that the union would not resort to direct action when this course is open to it. Finally I say to the honourable member that, because I am concerned that these processes should be gone through rather than direct action being taken, I have communicated with the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions by telegram and I am hoping, through another indirect contact, that I will be seeing him on Monday of next week. 
The debate before the House arises out of the Speech delivered by the Governor-General at the outset of the Parliament in which the Government stated to a joint meeting of both Houses, through the Governor-General, what the programme before the session and beyond the session - indeed running through the life of the Parliament - would be. In accordance with the practice of the House a Committee was appointed to bring up an Address-in-Reply motion. That motion was handled very well by the mover and the seconder. Its terms were to express loyalty to  Her  Majesty the Queen and to thank her, through the Governor-General, for delivering that Speech. That is the motion that has been before the Chair and has been debated over a period of more than 2 weeks. 
Today when the debate was resumed the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  gave notice that he would move an amendment. He duly moved that amendment, and it was seconded. The words of the amendment were: 
But this House is of the opinion that the Government should be censured because despite the long break since the last effective sitting of the 
House Ministers have refused to report to the Parliament on the negotiations concerning Commonwealth and State finances, the national health scheme, the problems of productive marketing and reconstruction of primary industries, the state of the economy, the development of New Guinea and the failure of the Fill. 
The operative words which apply to ali the individual matters are 'have refused to report'. The entire amendment, which uses the word 'censure' and hopes to imply censure simply by the use of the word, is that the Government has refused to report. A censure motion does not become a censure motion simply because the word 'censure' is used. 
Standing order 110 states that: 
A motion of which notice has been given or an amendment which expresses a censure of or want of confidence in the Government and is accepted by a Minister as a censure or want of confidence motion or amendment shall, until it is disposed of by the House, take precedence of all other business. 
The operative words are: 'and is accepted by a Minister', lt is to be said here and now that the Government does not accept this amendment as a censure. It would be ridiculous to accept it as such. It will be regarded purely as a proposed amendment to the motion for the adoption of the Address-in-Reply and will be treated as such. 
Speaking to the amendment which has been moved, I shall deal with the matters which are raised. I again draw the attention of the House to the operative words - 'Ministers have refused to report'. The first matter about which Ministers are said to have refused to report is described as negotiations concerning Commonwealth and State finances. Let us examine this matter to see whether there has been a report on this subject. The Governor-General's Speech, which was heard by all honourable members in the Senate chamber and which is available in printed form for their perusal, dealt quite succinctly and broadly with the subject of Commonwealth and State financial relations. Following the delivery of the Governor-General's Speech there was a meeting in public in Canberra, in this very place, of the Prime Minister, the Treasurer and the Premiers and their advisers. The meeting was held around the table at which I now stand and was open to the public. The proceedings were reported by the Press. It is true that a transcript of the proceedings will not be available until later, but the point I make is that at this time there is nothing to report other than what has been reported. Further discussions are to take place. Further consideration is to be given by the Government. The time for reporting will be geared to the availability of appropriate matters to report. 
I remind the House that questions have been asked in the Parliament on this subject. On 3rd March, the day on which the Parliament was opened, the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  was asked a question. As far as my researches carry me that is the only question that has been asked about Commonwealth and State financial relations. When we remember that honourable members opposite have the right each day at question time to ask as many questions as are asked by Government supporters, members of the Opposition cannot be very concerned about this matter if they have not asked questions. In these circumstances to make this matter the basts of a censure motion is ludicrous. 
The next claim made in the amendment is that Ministers have refused to report on the national health scheme. Nothing could be more ludicrous. The subject was covered in the Governor-General's Speech. In case the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  has not seen it I have brought into the chamber a statement, comprising 26 quarto pages with 12 quarto pages of attachments, which was delivered by the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  in this House on 4th March, the day after the Parliament was opened. I put it across the table for the information of honourable members opposite. After the Minister had spoken a member of the Opposition put the Opposition's view on this subject. 
It is next alleged by the honourable member for Lalor that Ministers have refused to report on the problems of production, marketing and reconstruction in primary industries. This matter was dealt with in the Governor-General's Speech. On 5th March the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  initiated a debate on this subject as a matter of public importance. I think 2 honourable members from each side of the House participated in that debate, including the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony),  who referred to wheat stabilisation, the sugar agreement, dried vine fruits and war service land settlement. The honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  participated in the debate and made a very valuable contribution. [Quorum formed.] 
The next item is the alleged refusal of Ministers to report on the state of the economy. The Governor-General dealt with the State of the economy. Since then a number of questions on the subject have been addressed to the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  and to the Prime Minister. The right honourable member for Fisher  (Mr Adermann)  asked the Treasurer a question about interest rates. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  who is spokesman for the Opposition on economic matters, asked the Treasurer a question on Tuesday 10th March. On Wednesday 11th March the honourable member for Canning  (Mr Hallett)  asked the Treasurer a question about interest rates. On 11th March the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  asked the Treasurer how he reconciled what he had said in the Parliament with something which the Governor-General had said in delivering his Speech. On Tuesday 12th March the Leader of the Opposition asked the Treasurer a question which the reporters of Hansard - not I - have headed Australian Economy'. The Treasurer made quite a lengthy reply to that question. On the same day a matter of public importance was raised by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports. The subject was interest rates. The honourable member spoke for 15 minutes and the Treasurer replied. It was a very good speech from the Treasurer, setting out in some detail the issue of interest rates. 
The next matter dealt with in the amendment is the alleged refusal of Ministers to report on the development of New Guinea. This was an unfortunate subject for the Opposition to select because honourable members will recall that the GovernorGeneral dealt with it at length. Probably there has never been a more extensive reference to Papua and New Guinea in a speech by a Governor-General. In addition, on 4th March, the day after the GovernorGeneral delivered his Speech, the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Barnes)  made a lengthy statement dealing with constitu tional development in Papua and New Guinea. He described how constitutional development would proceed and how the people of the Territory would be able to make a greater contribution towards the running of their affairs and to participate in government. I am sure that honourable members opposite have copies of that statement, but again, lest there be any difficulty, I have brought with me a copy of the statement for the benefit of honourable gentlemen opposite. 
The final matter which is specifically referred to is that Ministers have refused to report on the failure of the F 1 1 1 . The Fill was the subject of a statement, by leave, by my colleague, the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  on 5th March. At that time he said these words which are worth recalling: 
All aircraft were then grounded, and save for seven aircraft since released for special flight test purposes, remain grounded. 
A number of committees, including the United States Air Force Scientific Advisory Board ad hoc Committee, were established to advise the Secretary, Department of Air Force on the many scientific and engineering aspects of the problem. To assist in the Australian evaluation as affecting  F111C  aircraft, three scientists of the Aeronautical Research Laboratories of the Department of Supply were sent to the United States of America to augment the engineer staff of the Royal Australian Air Force Project Manager. 
As the fault in the D6ac steel material of the wing pivot fitting had been undetected by the nondestructive testing methods used during manufacture, the conclusion was reached that faults could exist in other D6ac steel components . . . 
Then the honourable gentleman said that these issues had not been determined by scientific investigation and by submitting the aircraft to tests. He continued: 
The Government has decided that I should visit the United States at an early suitable opportunity to discuss the whole matter with the United States Secretary of Defence.  Mr Laird  has himself said that the United States must consult with the Australian Government on any modifications to the Fill contract. All aspects of the matter will be canvassed. I emphasise that no decision can yet be made concerning the future of our F111C because the scientific and engineering problems have not yet been resolved. The purpose of the visit is to canvass the possibilities concerning the F1I1C. 
If that is not a Minister's report to the Parliament I should like to know what a report should contain. On 10th March the Minister for Defence submitted a long defence statement, and a good one which has been the subject of debate in this Parliament. Until yesterday 8 questions have been asked on the economy, 5 on New Guinea, 3 on the FU 1, 13 on primary industry and, in respect of Commonwealth-State finances, which gets first billing in the amendment, 1 has been asked. 
The honourable member for Melbourne Ports. That shows what importance the Opposition places upon Commonwealth-State financial relationships. Honourable members opposite have had 9 days of questions and have managed in that time to ask I question about CommonwealthState financial relationships. There have been a bare 3 questions on national health. No wonder so few questions have been asked on this subject. My colleague, the Minister for Health has announced what the Government proposes and has said that legislation will be presented during this session, and legislation will be presented in this session. 
The Government does not accept this amendment as a censure, lt cannot acquire the character of a censure motion when it fails in 2 things: Firstly, it fails in alleging a failure to report when, upon examination, it is disclosed that there have been reports on all the matters mentioned. Secondly, it fails because it should have within its terms, standing on its own, the character of censure. One cannot put into a motion the character of censure merely by using the word 'censure'. 
The Speaker's list shows that the honourable member for Lalor was to speak. Tn fact, the Speaker's list uses his name, J. Cairns. When this debate was called on the honourable member rose and said: 'I move a censure'. The Opposition cannot think much of its prospects of success when I did not know about it until I heard the honourable member say: 'I move a censure'. Were honourable members opposite ashamed of it? Probably they were. If they were not ashamed I think that the reality is that there has been a little bit of fisticuffing going on in the Caucus room. The Leader of the Opposition is sitting at the table now, no doubt trying to recover the position. Who would honourable members expect to move a censure motion? The Leader of the Opposition! But what has happened today? The Leader of the Opposition has entered the chamber and presumably wants to try to rescue the mover and seconder of the motion from the error of their ways. 1 have no doubt that the matter was discussed in Caucus or by the Caucus executive and that honourable members opposite were split. I have no doubt that the Leader of the Opposition feels very embarrassed. 
I am informed that for the first time in the history of this Parliament from the Opposition side has come a purported censure motion which was not moved by the Leader of the Opposition or the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. In fact, on only one occasion in the history of the Parliament has a purported censure motion been moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and that was in 1952 when the right honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Calwell)  was hitting his straps in far finer form than now and at a time when the Leader of the Opposition, the late  Dr Evatt,  was on a decline. The Leader of the Opposition.  Dr Evatt,  sat in the House while his  Deputy  moved the censure motion in 1952, and that was understandable. That is the only occasion in the history of the Parliament when a censure motion has been moved other than by the Leader of the Opposition, and on that occasion it was moved by his  Deputy.  But what happened today? In walked a member, unannounced, and rather shamefacedly said: M move this censure motion.' Where was the Leader of the Opposition? In fact after the honourable member for Lalor had been speaking to this great censure motion for 4 or 5 minutes he emptied the House most effectively. Here was an exciting censure motion, and everybody went off for a cup of tea. Where the Leader of the Opposition was I do not pretend to know, but no doubt when he rises to speak he will make a powerful statement defending his own position and saying: T was not drinking tea, I was preparing the powerful statement which I am now going to deliver.' For all these reasons the House should regard this not as a censure motion but as a misformed, ill-conceived amendment which can be regarded only as frivolous to the greatest degree. 
 The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  came into the House this afternoon and, with characteristic disregard for fact or truth, said that a Cabinet meeting was hurriedly called today to deal with the censure motion, as it has been called.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  let it be known by the House that there was a Cabinet meeting this afternoon. Let it also be known by the House that the Cabinet meeting had nothing whatever to do with this amendment. The amendment was not even mentioned, because the decision that it did not amount to censure was taken long before the Cabinet meeting was held. There was no necessity whatever to talk about the amendment. The honourable gentleman is prepared to make statements unsubstantiated in any way at all, because he fails to recognise the requirement in this place that when an honourable member stands and speaks in it he ought to be able to answer for what he says. If the Leader of the Opposition knows now that there is no justification for his statement, one would hope that he would apologise. But I think that may be a hope beyond the slightest dream of realisation. 
Let me remind the House of another statement made by the Leader of the Opposition. I brought into the House a statement made by my colleague, the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes).  I said: 'If this is not known, 1 will give it to the Opposition'. I tossed it across the volumes of statutes and Hansard. The honourable gentleman, with his oratorical flourish, said, referring to me: 'With his characteristic elegance' - that was very nice, but there had to be a sting - 'he threw it across but, typical of him, he missed with his first throw'. Let me remind the House that the honourable gentleman does not miss with his first throw. I should say that 70% of honourable members were in the House on the night he picked up a glass of water and threw it. There was no elegance in that action, nor has there been elegance on occasions when he has made deliberate, premeditated attacks on individuals hoping to hurt them. We have become so accustomed to his attempts to hurt in a personal way that we now let his efforts wash off us. 
Throughout the speech he made this afternoon, he was wanting to make imputations about the personal habits of honour.oble members on this side of the House. We have become used to that, too. It needs to be said that the aspect of the Leader of the Opposition that makes us dislike him is his feline character. When he feels that he is in a bit of a tight corner, when he is not sure of himself, the claws come out and he scratches, hoping to hurt. That is the feline character that we have seen over the years and it is the characteristic that we most dislike. The Leader of the Opposition came into the House with pique because of the amendment that the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  had moved against his wishes. He came in to try to save the position. When we announced that we could not accept the amendment as a censure, because it did not have the merit of a censure, the honourable gentleman rose in pique and moved: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the debate on the motion for the adoption of the Address-in-Reply and the censure motion having precedence until disposed of by the House. 
Apparently the honourable gentleman did not look at the Orders of the Day. This is Order of the Day No. 1 and will continue with priority over other Orders of the Day until disposed of. So I tell the honourable gentleman that, misfounded as his motion is. I. will not take up the time of the House by dividing on it. We will agree to his motion. We will suspend Standing Orders. When I sit down, it needs only that the question be put and we will support it. This debate does not need to be given priority and I do not propose to take up the time of the House with divisions when so many honourable members want to speak on the substantive issue. 
It is interesting to note that the Leader of the Opposition has not even spoken, on the amendment moved by the honourable member for Lalor. He has been speaking to a motion to suspend Standing Orders, which we will accept. He has not supported the mover and seconder of the amendment. That is an indication of the importance he attaches to the censure amendment. He has tried to save the position by moving that Standing Orders be suspended. T am prepared to say that that is his purpose, but T think the reality is that he performed so badly when he spoke on the Address-in-Reply that he wanted a second go. He chose to have a second go by speaking to a motion for the suspension of Standing Orders. That indicates the importance that he places on the amendment. By his actions he says that it is not a censure motion. That is what we say. There is no disagreement. We will agree to the suspension of Standing Orders and I will not talk to his motion for half an hour, as he did. 
I think it is worthwhile reminding the House that we have before us an amendment seeking to censure the Government. The terms of the amendment have to be read to appreciate the lack of depth in it. lt says that the Government is to be censured because Ministers have failed to report to the Parliament. Then it names some matters on which they have failed to report. One is Commonwealth-State finances. There was a meeting of State Premiers around this table- 
If I may, 1 would speak to the point of order. I find it rather dimcut to understand how New Guinea and men having target practice can come into a debate on the suspension of Standing Orders. However, the Leader of the Opposition was making so little impression on anybody that I let him go. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Since May 1963 seven sessions of the International Labour Conference have been held, at all of which Australia has been represented. At these sessions, a total of twelve Conventions and seventeen Recommendations were adopted. 
Australian Government delegates supported the adoption of nine Conventions, opposed one and abstained from voting on two.. They supported the adoption of fourteen Recommendations, opposed one and abstained from voting on two. The details are as follows: 
There was a stoppage and there is the prospect of another one. The issue is not a clear one of merely pursuing a wages claim. Broader issues are involved in this stoppage. The union involved has been concerned in recent times with the drift in its membership to other unions in the building industry and there is little doubt that at present the leadership of the union is trying to be seen to be very militant - trying to increase wages by militancy in order to arrest the movement of its members to other unions. For this reason the stoppage cannot be seen as a simple clear issue of a wages claim. The union has not pursued its claim through negotiation with the employers or through arbitration. For this it has been criticised by the commissioner who deals with this industry, Commissioner Watson. 1 am bound to say that in my judgment the employers should have notified the dispute to the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission tinder section 28 of the Act, when they became aware that there would be a stoppage. I should like the matter to be resolved by negotiation between the union and the employers or, if necessary, by arbitration. No secret ballot was held before the strike was called. 1 think it unlikely that a secret ballot will be held before any follow up stoppage. Under the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act there is provision for secret ballots to be taken before a strike is held. This provision is very rarely used and it has not been used on this occasion. 
There are two meetings proceeding today. One is a meeting of the Australian Council of Trade Unions Disputes Committee and the other is a meeting of the employers of waterside labour. They are discussing the matter separately this morning. This afternoon there will be a meeting of the National Conference when the parties will be together. I will not say anything more at this point of time. 
In answer to the honourable gentleman's question: It is a fact that an organisation has been established to endeavour to persuade the public of Australia that there is some sort of movement here to protest against Vietnam involvement which is separate and distinct and indigenous to Australia. The truth is, of course, that that movement stems directly from overseas. It has been stimulated without any doubt by 
Communist manoeuvring. There is no doubt that there are people in Australia seeking to use this force that originates overseas. The great misfortune about it is that there are a number of people in Australia who are thought to be the victims of a propaganda move which will bring them into association with the movement in an attempt to make it appear widespread and to make it appear respectable. 
Unfortunately, there are members of the Australian Labor Party, in the Parliamentary Party as well as in the organisational Party, who are not mere dupes but who have willingly given their support to it.  1  regret to say that organised Labor in Australia has endorsed the Vietnam moratorium, [n order for that primary action to become the policy it is necessary for more than  50%  of the Trades and Labour Councils to endorse it. Three have failed to endorse it. One of the members on the other side, in taking a point of order, asked how could I know what is in the minds of those people who refuse to endorse it. T think I do know what is in their minds. They are decent Australians who will have no part of it and that is the reason why they refused to endorse this action. 
But this has become a matter going beyond the mere political polemics. This has become an issue in which one of the members of the front bench of the Opposition has issued a call - a clarion call he would like to think it - to the Australian people and particularly to those in Victoria and in Melbourne, to cease work, to occupy the streets and to occupy public buildings. It is an invitation to anarchy as properly described, lt is a matter of such importance that I expect that a statement will be made by a Minister in this House so that the matter can be properly debated so that the views which are held by honourable members in this House can be exposed; for I am quite sure that whatever certain members of the Parliamentary Labor Party believe their views are not the views of the great bulk of those people who vote Labor and who support the Labor Party. Those people who will be called upon in the future to vote ought to know the character of the people they are called upon to vote for. For that reason there will be debate on this matter in the House. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The detailed information referred to in the question is not available and to seek to extract it from existing records would be a monumental task which could not be justified. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am advised by the  President  of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission that the answer to this question is 'No'. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I reject the suggestion contained in the question that any Presidential member of the Commission had ever sought or would seek directly or indirectly to influence any Commissioner as to how he might deal with a matter before him. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth did not intervene in the Equal Pay Case referred to by the honourable member, but the Public Service Board appeared as a party. However, the Commonwealth did intervene in the public interest in the private industry case which was joined to the Public Service Case and was concerned with two applications by the Australasian Meat Industry Employees' Union. 
Yes. 
The question whether females employed in individual classifications should be eligible for equal pay is either a matter for agreement between the parties concerned, or for the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to determine, assuming, of course, that the matter comes within the Commission's jurisdiction. 
 The answer  to  the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) To supplement the normal services of the Commonwealth Employment Service five new positions have been created by my Department for officers who wilt give special employment assistance to Aborigines in the north-west of Western Australia. This will involve visiting Aborigines where they are located, assessing their employment potential, counselling them about employment, assisting them to obtain employment locally or elsewhere where this is practicable or arranging for them to claim unemployment and sickness benefits as required. These special services will be progressively implemented as officers are appointed to the new positions. 
Wage Claims: Delays in Hearings (Question No. 292) 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
While I am aware that there has been some dissatisfaction over alleged ' delays in the hearing of claims lodged with Federal Tribunals 1 do not agree that the delays have been such as to give rise to grave or growing dissatisfaction. 1 would add that 1 have requested an investigation into allegations of delays in the handling of claims lodged with the Commonwealth . Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to see what remedial, action is required, if any. 
The date from which a decision by the. Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission should operate is a matter for the Commission to determine on the merits of submissions placed before it by the parties. In view of this 1 do not agree that the Conciliation and Arbitration Act should be amended in the way that the honourable member has suggested. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question  is  as follows: 
In its decision in the National Wage Cases 1966, the Commission described the minimum wage in the following terms: 'This provision for a new minimum wage for adult male employees is designed to meet the circumstances of em- ployees in the lowest classifications who are in receipt of award rates and no more. It is not intended to affect the wage of any employee who is already receiving the prescribed minimum through over-award payments'. 
The determination of a minimum wage in the Federal jurisdiction is a matter for the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission which reaches a decision on the claims submitted to it, taking into account the argument and evidence submitted by the parties and interveners, including the Commonwealth. If increases in the minimum or other wages are to contribute to raising the standard of living, and in this wages are only one element though an important one, the increases must be within the capacity of the economy to support. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I.L.O. Convention No. 100  -  Equal Remuneration 1951  -  which provides that ratifying countries shall, by means appropriate to the methods in operation for determining rates of remuneration, promote and, in so far as is consistent with such methods, ensure the application to all workers of the principle of equal remuneration for men and women workers for work of equal value, has been ratified by the following countries: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Argentina, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Bulgaria, Byelorussia, Central African Republic, Chad, China, Colombia, Congo (Kinshasa), Costa Rica, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Dahomey, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Finland, France, Gabon, Federal Republic of Germany, Ghana, Guatemala, Republic of Guinea, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iraq, Israel, Italy, Ivory Coast, Japan, Jordan, Libya, Luxembourg, Malagasy Republic, Malawi, Republic of Mali, Mexico, Mongolia, Nicaragua, Niger, Norway, Panama, Paraquay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Rumania, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Spain, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Tunisia, Turkey, Ukraine, U.S.S.R., United Arab Republic, Upper Volta, Yugoslavia. 
The I.L.O. Committee of Experts on the Application of Conventions and Recommendations has given a very wide interpretation to the concept of 'work of equal value', applying it not only to women doing the same work as men or like work and doing the same range and volume of work and under the same conditions, but also to quite unlike types of work. Observations made by the Committee of Experts indicate that it regards more than half the countries which have ratified the Convention as not complying fully with its provisions. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
At 27th February, there were 34 known Aborigines (22 males and 12 females) registered for employment in the whole of the Port Augusta District Office area of the Commonwealth Employment Service which includes the Davenport Reserve. Of these 13 were under 21 years of age. It is not known how many Aborigines may be unemployed but not registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service. 
Two Vocational Officers will shortly be based at Port Augusta and will augment the existing Commonwealth Employment Service facilities. Their duties will involve visiting Aborigines where they are located, assessing their employment potential, counselling them about employment, assisting them to obtain employment locally or elsewhere where this is practicable or arranging for them to claim unemployment and sickness benefits as required. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
By occupation the ninety-three vacant jobs at end-February were: 3 rural 8 professional and semi-professional 10 clerical and administrative 6 skilled building 1 7 skilled metal and electrical 3 other skilled 11 semi-skilled 10 unskilled manual and 25 service occupations. 
By industry, they were distributed as follows: 5 primary production 2 mining 18 manufacturing 12 building and construction 7 transport 14 commerce 6 health, hospitals 29 other services. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. Some disputes involving alleged employer victimisation have come under notice from time to time but the number of such disputes appears to be relatively small. It is not possible to give precise figures of the number of such disputes. 
Section 5 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act 1904-1969 already provides protection to union members who are or wish to become officers or delegates of their union, against victimisation on that account. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Insofar as the belief of which the honourable member speaks is held it is quite wrong and is a reflection on the integrity of members of the Commission. 
The Government will continue to discharge Its responsibility by issuing such statements about the economy and other matters as it considers are warranted. Moreover, it will make such submissions to the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission as it considers are in the public interest and it has a statutory right to make. It is for the Commission to decide what weight it will give to such submissions just as it has to decide what weight it will give to submissions by other bodies appearing before it. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. The F.E.D.F.A. presented employers with a log of claims in 1966. A new award, the Engine Drivers and Firemen's (General) Award 1968 was handed down in September 1968. At the union's request, it was confined to award rates. Since that time claims for updated conditions of employment have been the subject of Commission proceedings and negotiations between the parties. 
On 5th January 1970 the F.E.D.F.A. put these claims to the Metal Trades Employers Federation with a request that all six be satisfied by direct negotiation. The M.T.E.A. replied that it could not accede to some of these claims because they were matters of principle which the union should submit to arbitration, but there were areas for negotiation with regard to other matters. The union reply was that it would be satisfied only with an affirmative reply to all claims. 
No. 
On 13th January 1970  Mr Commissioner  Watson granted meal allowance rates of 85 cents for the first meal, 50 cents for the second meal, and 85 cents for each subsequent meal to workers on overtime who had not been given adequate prior notification of their being required to work overtime. Similar provisions under the Metal Trades Award are$1. 00, 50 cents and $1.00. Under that award a fiat rate of $1.00 per meal for all workers on overtime was set in 1969, but on appeal this was varied to the rates mentioned. 
I am not aware of any such decision by the union. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. On 5th March 1970, the Coal Industry Tribunal made a declaration permitting the working of multiple shifts on developing long wall operations at collieries owned by the Australian Iron and Steel Pty Ltd where this system is in operation. 
I am advised that long wall mining has played a relatively small part in the increase in productivity. 
In the case referred to in (1) above, the Coal Industry Tribunal recognised that there were features in both development and extraction work in long wall operations, which, when performed on a four shift basis, reasonably entitle each employee to increased leisure but, because the evidence available was insufficient to reopen the decision on standard hours and because the Tribunal regarded increased annual leave rather than reduced hours of work as the proper provision to attain this end. he adopted the former benefit. 
The district stoppages in the New South Wales Northern and Southern districts on March 23rd, the day that multiple shifts were to be introduced at Kemira Colliery in implementation of the Tribunal's decision, were organised under the aegis of the Combined Mining Unions. 
and (6) Mechanisation and technical changes in the New South Wales coal mining industry have not, in recent years, been accompanied by any substantial displacement of workers. Indeed the work force has increased by about 20% over the past 5 years. 
Non-farm Manual Work Force: Average Weekly Wage  (Question No. 450) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The information desired by the honourable member is not available in (he form requested. In particular, no statistics are available relating to the non-farm manual work force. However, the honourable member may find the information contained in the following tables of some assistance. 
There has been a very great number of disputes involving Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd and associated companies over recent months. These disputes have cost an immense amount of production. This loss inevitably will lead to a very considerable increase in the price of the products when production is resumed, and that increase will be harmful to the economy. There are presently before the New South Wales Industrial Commission applications for the deregistration, under the State arbitration system, of a number of unions. Of the large number of unions concerned with the Broken Hill Company there are three unions which are not concerned in the applications for deregistration because, as I understand it, they have been seeking to pursue their claims through negotiation. I would hope that all unions making wage claims would follow the pattern of negotiation and, failing negotiation, then arbitration and that there should be no recourse to direct strike action which can only be harmful to the economy. 
After a dispute which should not have occurred there was a 5-day national stoppage of work on the waterfront which involved identifiable costs directly to the community of between $4m and $5m. It is difficult to know how prices would rise when those costs were traced through to the consumer. The strike was held - 1 regret to say - and the negotiations which were taking place at the time were subsequently resumed. It was through the good agency of a presidential member of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission that the parties were able to continue the negotiations. Certain arrangements were reached between the employers and the unions. The granting of 4 weeks leave was only one of a group of conditions granted. In return for the granting of those conditions it is proposed that an agreement will be signed by the employers, the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the Waterside Workers Federation which will provide that during the course of the agreement, which will run for 2 years from 6th May 1970, the Waterside Workers Federation and the Australian Council of Trade Unions undertake that there will be no stoppages of work on the waterfront over any issue of wages and conditions negotiated during these negotiations. Further, it will provide that there shall be no stoppage of work on the waterfront in relation to the application of wages to waterside workers following on any national wage decision. The parties have got together and, it would appear, have reached a good conclusion. 1 would hope that for 2 years we shall have absolutely strike-free peace on the waterfront. 
The honourable member raised the issue of 4 weeks annual leave. I do not know precisely why that was granted by the employers or the terms under which it was asked for by the employees. I remind the honourable gentleman that almost every award provides that where shift workers are involved there is to be an extra week's leave. As I understand the position, the Waterside Workers Federation submitted that its members were subject to shifts and therefore should get an extra week's leave, making a total of 4 weeks. The honourable gentleman asks whether the Government will consider granting 4 weeks annual leave to Commonwealth public servants and take as the reason for doing so the granting of 4 weeks leave in the special circumstances of negotiation that I have mentioned. The answer to the honourable gentleman's question is that the matter was considered by the Government quite recently as a result of representations made by the Public Service unions. The Government considered it closely and had regard to the cost of an extra week's annual leave spread throughout the community. I have forgotten the precise figures but the cost can be calculated on the basis of people working overtime to make up the leave or on the basis of employing new staff. The second basis would be cheaper than the first. The pressure on costs and prices would be so great that the Government decided it ought not to take the initiative but instead should leave it to an arbitrated decision. So far as I am aware, the matter has not been carried forward to arbitration. 
I move: 
That the question be now put. 
Motion (by  Mr Snedden)  proposed: 
That the honourable member for Oxley be suspended from the service of the House. 
 I move: 
That the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  be suspended from the service of the Mouse. 
Opposition members  -  Throw us all out. 
Sitting suspended from 12.40 a.m. to 2.15 a.m. 
Opposition members  -  The Government has suspended him. 
Opposition members - Oh! 
That the Leader  of  the  Opposition  be heard. 
That  Mr Speaker's  ruling be dissented from. 
Opposition members - There is a motion. 
Sitting suspended at 2.23 a.m. (Thursday) 
 As to the motion for the recommital of the Bill to enable amendments to be considered I am bound to inform the House that I have no knowledge of the nature of any amendments. 
Thenoise from the Opposition seems to imply disagreement but I am sure that the honourable member for Dawson will agree. I think the honourable member will agree, as he has agreed across the table, that I could have no knowledge of what the amendments are. It is true that I had heard that there were some amendments and it is true that I asked the honourable member, across thetable last night, on at least 2 occasions and possibly more would he move his amendments. I had heard that there were amendments but the amendments were never circulated.I could have had no knowledge of the content of them. I think also I should say that I inquired from the  Clerk  as to whether or not amendments were available for circulation and the  Clerk  had to inform me there were no amendments available for circulation. 
In the drawer? 
In the drawer- that is where the amendments are. The consequence was over the course of the hour that the Committee debate was proceeding, on 2 or 3 times I said to the honourable gentleman: 'Will you stand and get the call and move the amendments? They were never moved. Therefore I could have no knowledge of them. It has been reported that there was an agreement to let the amendments be moved. Whom the agreement was between, I have not the remotest idea. 
The Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  has informed me that, like me, he never had the courtesy extended to him of being told specifically that there were amendments and what they were. We had heard about them and nothing more. We are now therefore confronted with a situation where the honourable gentleman, by his own act, declined in any way to disclose the nature of them. Today for the first time he says that the amendments were in the Clerk's drawer. 
Where they should have been - circulating in this chamber. The honourable gentleman now asks for the recommittal of the Bill for the purposes of moving amendments, when to this very moment we have no knowledge of what they are. Therefore we cannot agree to the motion for recommittal. The Bill has passed through all stages up to the adoption of the Committee's report to the House, and when this motion is dealt with I will move for the third reading of the Bill. 
A statement was made by my colleague, the Minister for Primary Industry, in March of last year about the partial lifting of the merino ram export ban. My recollection is that, after he made his statement, the spokesman for the Opposition replied and then the matter was put on the notice paper. It was expunged from the notice paper by the dissolution of the Parliament. Shortly after March 1969, the matter was raised in the Senate and a debate ensued. I think, speaking from memory, that it was  a  longer debate than the debate which occurred in our House. Since then, a general election has been held. A new Parliament has been formed. I think that it is now in its fourth week of sitting. 
As I understand it, from published reports, a ban has been imposed on the export of merino rams and will continue to be imposed until there is parliamentary discussion on the lifting of the ban. Well, from what I have said, it will be clear to the honourable gentleman that there has been parliamentary discussion. Further, as far as I can recollect, there has been no issue raised by the Opposition in relation to this export ban. lt seems apparent that the trade union movement, at the time it imposed the ban, was anxious that there should be an opportunity for discussion in the national Parliament. That opportunity has been present all the time. I believe that the position has been reached where there is just no sense in maintaining the ban. 
I have asked for discussions to be held between representatives of my own Department and the Australian Council of Trade Unions. Those discussions are in process. I would not wish to give any indication as to their nature or how they are progressing. At this point of time there is really no justification for a continuation of the ban. That view has been put strongly on my behalf. I hope I will be able to report to the honourable member that sense has prevailed and has prevailed very quickly. As to the opening part of the question, I think I should say very forthrightly that the constitutionally elected government would not be prepared to allow minorities to take control of the conduct of its business. 
There has been a settlement of the dispute. Recently in the House I had the opportunity to inform honourable members that one of the features of the settlement was that the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the Waterside Workers Federation proposed to sign an agreement the terms of which, if I recall them accurately, are that there will be no stoppages of work on any issue of wages or conditions which were the subject matters of these negotiations. 
 I will. A further term of the agreement, I understand, is that there will be no stoppages in relation to national wage cases but waterfront employees will get the benefit of national wage case increases. There will be no stoppages on these matters but that is as far as the undertaking to refrain from strike action goes. The situation is serene at the moment. I would hope that it will remain serene for 2 years. I would hope also that no other issue will arise which will lead to strike action outside the agreement. 
At the outset I should say that it is my view that the arbitration system must be preserved because it pro vides guarantees of minimum wages and conditions for, 1 think, about 85% of the work force. It is upon those guarantees of minimum wages and conditions that the work force can rely for its standard of living. In recent times there has been quite a deal of talk about collective bargaining. I would like to draw a dichotomy between collective bargaining- 
It is a Greek owned racehorse. Collective bargaining as a term usually implies a reliance on collective bargaining exclusively, leaving the Arbitration Commission to wither or alternatively to destroy itself. On the other hand a different term needs to be used for direct negotiation, for the purposes of distinction - that is, of drawing a dichotomy. Direct negotiation can live within the arbitration umbrella. The concern that I have about direct negotiation is the degree to which powerful unions in an industrial sense are able to use the threat of strike action to coerce employers to give wage increases beyond the capacity of the economy to pay and in advance of the development of productivity. If this is carried too far I believe it will have the result of stratifying incomes in the community. Incomes determine the standard of living. It is likely to stratify income in the community, depending not upon the degree of skill that the worker enjoys and not necessarily upon the number of hours that he works, how hard he works, the effort that he puts into his work or anything of that kind, but to be related solely to the industrial power of the work situation in which he is. 
For example, a carpenter working on the building of house frames or architraves or a joiner building furniture would have nothing like the industrial power that would he possessed by a worker in, for instance, the power producing industry. It would be most undesirable that the industrial power possessed by somebody in that sort of sensitive industry could result in his having a significantly bigger increase in pay, enjoying a larger standard of pay and a better standard of living than the equally socially necessary worker in another area who is not possessed of the same industrial power. For this reason, I believe that it is essential in the interests of the work force of Australia that the arbitration system should survive. 
I did see the report of the Secretary of the Trades and Labour Council of Victoria in which he is reported to have suggested to the honourable member for Lalor not to encourage industrial disturbances associated with . the Vietnam Moratorium Campaign. It is unusual for me to find myself echoing the words of a trade union leader. The trade union leader I refer to has a record of responsibility and the statement he made is one that 1 would expect him to make. The other point which I should make in answer to the question is that there are enough strikes and stoppages of work and bans on the performance of work imposed for industrial reasons. It will be contrary to the interests of Australia if we get to the point where industrial stoppages, strikes and disputes are called in order to make political points. The place to make political points is in the forums established under the Constitution for that purpose. I believe that any effort to manipulate the work force and organise labour in this country into holding strikes for political reasons ought to be condemned in the interests of the development of Australia. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I presume that the honourable member is referring to the Industrial Court's decision handed down on 16th September, 1969 . in James Edward Dunford v. T. N. P. Dougherty and Others. In this case, the claimant sought orders against the members of the Executive Council of the Australian Workers' Union in relation to a resolution which was carried by it at a meeting held in Sydney in June, 1969. The Court decided that the applicant failed to establish that some person or persons in the organisation had failed to perform or observe the rules of the organisation as required by section 141 of the Act. 
It is a fact that the Court was informed in the course of proceedings that the Executive Council of the union was of the view that the opinion which it formed as expressed in the resolution was not well founded. The Court ordered costs as a matter of normal procedure where the applicant fails to establish his case. 
There is already adequate provision in the Act for a claimant to seek redress in the event of an organisation taking steps which are in breach of the rules of an organisation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
I shall look into the merits of amending the Conciliation and Arbitration Act along the lines suggested by the honourable member. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In January 1968  Mr Commissioner  E. J. Clarkson granted male and female workers employed under the Commonwealth Hostels Award wage increases on work value grounds and, in addition, granted female workers an increase equivalent to the differences between the former male and female basic wages and abolished interstate differences in wage rates for male and female workers. The Commissioner also granted to all workers employed under the award 2 weeks of paid sick leave for each year of service subsequent to service of 7 years. 
Commonwealth Hostels Ltd appealed not only against the decision to award female workers a wage increase equivalent to the difference between the former male and female basic wages, but also against the decision to abolish the interstate differences between wage rates for male and female workers. The Company also applied for a stay of the 2 decisions until the appeal was heard. 
The reason for the  President  of the Commission not setting the appeal down for hearing soon after the stay applications had been decided is apparent from the following extract from a decision handed down on 15th July 1968, in which the Commission, inter alia, extended stay orders previously granted: 
I would like to add for myself as  President  that it should be manifest to the industrial world and also to the representatives of the parties and especially to this particular union that it is impossible for me to set this down for hearing at present. It is not the wish of the organised employers or the organised trade unions that the two issues of equal rates for females and males and the abolition of interstate differentials be tested at this particular point of time. Indeed it will be clear - and I recommend to the union that it look at the transcript of today's proceedings before  Mr Senior  Commissioner Taylor m regard to the forthcoming national wage case, where the representatives of the Australian Council of Trade Unions made it clear that the A.C.T.U. did not want the issue of equal pay for men and women or the abolition of interstate differentials decided at or even during the national wage cases which are going to commence on 6th August; they wanted those issues decided separately and later than that 
It will be seen therefore that it would be impracticable to the point of absurdity if I were to put this appeal down for hearing at the present time.' 
and (4) Commonwealth Hostels Ltd and the Federated Liquor and Allied Industries Employees' Union of Australia agreed that the phasing-in of equal pay for female workers eligible for equal pay should be in accordance with the decision of the Commission, in the Equal Pay Case, 1969. The Commission subsequently, at the request of the parties, handed down a consent award to this effect. Under the consent award female workers eligible forequal pay will receive the full male rate from and after January 1972. This is in accordance with the Commission's decision in the Equal Pay Case, 1969. 
Commonwealth Hostels Ltd is a Company incorporated in Victoria under the Victorian Companies Act as a Company Limited by Guarantee; and is registered in each other State as a Foreign Company. Being a Company Limited by Guarantee, it has no share capital and ownership cannot therefore be precisely determined. It would be true to say that the Company was incorporated to service a Commonwealth purpose, and that the agreement between the Commonwealth and the Company reserves certain policy decisions to me as Minister for Labour and National Service. The Company is, however, administered by a Board of Directors and Company officers, not by my Department 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
None. 
The Commonwealth does not have constitutional competence to empower the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to make an award in settlement of a demarcation dispute in the circumstances described in part (1) of the question. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The files on applications made under section 139 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act may be inspected at the Industrial Registries and, under long standing arrangements, these flies are marked by the Registry staff so as to show clearly the precise changes in wording sought. Nevertheless, I shall look into the proposal embodied in the honourable member's question. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) In the Professional Engineers Case in 1969, the Commission said it was satisfied the rates fixed by the Public Service Board for engineers in September 1969, were appropriate and endorsed them as its own decisions. 
Yes. 
The Commission said its 1969 rates were based on present day work values and that its decisions concerned professional engineers alone. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
No. 
There are adequate provisions under State law for prosecution of those who embezzle or misappropriate union funds. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In 1940, the late  Mr Justice  O'Mara in the then Commonwealth Court of Conciliation and Arbitration, ruled that an award of the Court could validly attach conditions to the earning and receipt of wages (and overtime) and insist on those conditions being met before any money became due to an employee covered by the award. He said that it was consistent with that principle for an award to prescribe that a demand for money should be a condition precedent to the money becoming due. Such conditions are usually limited to payment for overtime work performed by an employee away from supervision whose employer would not necessarily know the extent of the overtime worked unless the employee were to disclose it. 
Once wages (including overtime) become due to an employee whether as a result of a demand or otherwise they fall within the provisions of section 123 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act and may be recovered within 12 months of the date on which they became due. There would therefore be no merit in amending the section as suggested. Moreover, it is open to any party to an award in which such a condition precedent as that described appears to seek its deletion or variation by an application tothe Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. 
by leave - I move: 
That until the end of June, unless otherwise ordered, the House shall meet for the despatch of business (a) on each Tuesday and Wednesday at two o'clock p.m. and on each Thursday at ten o'clock a.m., and (b) on and from Friday, 8th May, on each Friday at ten o'clock a.m. 
That until the end of June, at 11.00 p.m. on each Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday and at 4 p.m. on Friday the  Speaker  shall put the Question - That the House do now adjourn - which Question shall be open to debate; if the House be in Committee at that hour, the  Chairman  shall report progress and upon such report being made the  Speaker  shall forthwith put the 
Question - That the House do now adjourn - which Question shall be open to debate. Provided that: 
if a division be in progress at the time of interruption such division shall be completed and the result announced, 
if, on the Question, That the House do now adjourn, being proposed, a Minister requires the Question to be put forthwith without debate, the  Speaker  shall forthwith put the Question, 
nothing in this order shall operate to prevent a motion for the adjournment of the House being moved by a Minister at an earlier hour, 
any business under discussion and not disposed of at the time of the adjournment shall be set down on the Notice Paper for the next sitting, and 
if the question - That the House do now adjourn - is negatived, the House shall resume the proceedings at the point at which they had been interrupted. 
Honourable members will recall that in about the middle of February I wrote a letter to honourable members on my side of the chamber and to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  for distribution to those on his side. In that letter I tried to set out the sitting dates as far into the future as I could see them, so that honourable members could order their personal appointments conveniently. At that point of time I could see forward only to 21st May in precise terms. In that letter I said that 21st May was to be regarded not as the end of the sittings but merely as far as I could see at that point of time a date to which to commit ourselves. 
Later on - I think about 2 or 3 weeks ago - I wrote a letter to honourable members pointing out that we ought to take the normal recess of a week after the sitting week that ends on 21st May - although in terms of this motion, that week would end on 22nd May - and then come back. I pointed out that I could see that we would sit for at least 2 weeks in June; that is, until Thursday, 1 1th June - although, in terms of this motion, that will now very likely be Friday, 12th June. I am bound to say that I hope that we can finish by that date. I do not think anybody in this House would not hold that same hope. On the other hand, naturally enough, we cannot lift the House until the business of the House has been completed. 
Therefore, I think it is desirable that we should commence the sittings earlier -I avoid using the words 'extend the sittings' because the extension could be at the other end of the day - in order to gain an extra  li  hours in each period of 3 days and also take half an hour less for lunch on Thursdays. That gives us an extra 2 hours. The House will realise that the time actually spent in sitting on a parliamentary sitting day is usually 6 to 7 hours, and a fair amount of that time is used for nondebating purposes; for example, question time, statements by Ministers and second reading speeches on Bills. So there are inroads into the time that is available for debate on Bills. 
The number of Bills that have been introduced this session, I think all honourable members would agree, has been remarkable. It is remarkable at least in my recollection. I have not known of as heavy a legislative programme having been revealed by the introduction of Bills into the House. At this stage 34 Bills stand on the notice paper and notices have been given of the introduction of 2 others. Then I must say to the House that more Bills remain to be introduced. I hope that they will be introduced as soon as practicable. So this is the biggest legislative programme in my memory in any event. We have had the opportunity to bring in the Bills much earlier than has been the situation in the past. I hope that we can maintain that performance. 
Given that this is the last day of 5 weeks of sitting, strangely enough very few Bills have been passed. 1 listed them, just from recollection. There may be others that I have omitted, but I doubt that there are. We have passed the Delivered Meals Subsidy Bill, the Social Services Bill, which related to married pensioners, and the associated Repatriation Bill, the Loan (Australian Wheat Board) Bill, the Dartmouth Reservoir Agreement Bill and the related River Murray Waters Bill and the Navigation Bill which, as the House will recall, was the urgent Bill in relation to the Oceanic Grandeur'. Really, very few pieces of legislation have been passed up to this point of time. 
Given the programme that is before us it is desirable that more hours of debate be made available. The first part of the motion, which deals with the earlier start on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday, as I said, will gain us H hours. 1 understand, 

 Mr Speaker, that the reduced period for lunch on Thursday and also on Friday can be taken care of by action by the Chair, it being the will of the House. I do have from the Opposition agreement to reduce the period for lunch. Then on Friday we will sit at 10 a.m.; break for lunch at 1 p.m.; recommence at 2 p.m.; and sit until 4 p.m. At 4 p.m. the procedure provided for in the second part of the motion will operate. If that part of the motion is adopted the Chair will at that hour put the motion for the adjournment. 
All in all, this arrangement will give us an extra 3 half-hours as a result of the earlier start and an extra half-hour at lunch time, making a total of 2 hours. On Friday morning we will gain 2 hours of debating time because roughly an hour between 10 a.m. and 11 a.m. will be used for questions and other matters. Then we will gain 2 hours in the afternoon. That will give us a total gain for the week of about 6 hours. In other words, it will amount to about an additional full parliamentary day even though on Friday we will sit only until 4 p.m. The arrangement for Friday sittings will operate for at least 5 weeks and that for the earlier start will operate for at least 6 weeks. Doing this for 5 weeks will mean that we will have available to us 5 extra parliamentary days which, in terms of the normal 3-day parliamentary week, will represent more than a week and a half. 1 think that the arrangement will make a very great difference to the time available for debates. More particularly, it will enable us to get through the programme which was outlined in the policy speech of the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  at the time of the last election, when we were returned to office with not merely a mandate but a duty to implement the legislation. Other proposed legislation was mentioned in the Governor-General's Speech. I have had an opportunity to discuss this proposal with the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and I believe that it will provide a frame upon which we will be able to reach agreement as to the basis of the progress of legistion through the House. 
 Mr Speaker,  the Parliament has before it a motion which the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  decided that the Opposition would support save for the substitution of the date 8th May for that of 15th May. That decision was announced at 2.25 p.m. We have spent 1 hour and 10 minutes talking about a wide variety of things; but essentially we have been talking about a Vietnam war protest movement which will culminate on 8th, 9th and 10th May, of which, I think, 75 parliamentary members of the Australian Labor Party are sponsors. We had a wide ranging debate on this movement on Tuesday. In some respects that debate has been revived today. Its revival today centred on the 20 minutes during which the attention of this House was occupied by the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns).  There has been circulated in the chamber a list of speakers for a debate on foreign affairs which arose following a ministerial statement by the Minister for External Affairs  (Mr McMahon).  There is the name of at least 1 honourable member on that list who is a new arrival in this Parliament. 1 have observed his anxiety and agitation. He is hoping that he will be able to make a contribution to that debate on foreign affairs which, it was well known to every honourable member, would last until the suspension of the sittings for dinner. If the time had not been spent on this protest movement, according to the calculations of the Whip that honourable member would have been speaking now. 
A member of the Opposition. The Government does not accept the amendment moved by the Opposition. It seems to have been suggested that there was some kind of plot hatched by the Government to have the first Friday sitting on 8th May in order in some way to embarrass the honourable member for Lalor and others who feel as strongly about Vietnam as he does. This is not the case. The choice of8th May was a perfectly obvious one because that date is in the first week that the Parliament returns after the next recess. Therefore it is the obvious date to choose. 1 do not want to pursue the philosophy outlined today by the honourable member for Lalor. I want only to draw out of it something which ought to be seen, which ought not to be hidden by the way he spoke and the words he uttered. According to what the honourable member said today he elevates the shaping of public protest to equality with the national Parliament. As a general statement it is one which I would hope not a single member of this House or of the Senate would accept. But this was stated to be the personal credo of the honourable member for Lalor. He not merely equates the Vietnam protest with Parliament, he subjugates Parliament to that protest. In order to achieve the subjugation he moved the amendment we are discussing so that this national Parliament would not sit in order that he could attend the protest meeting in Melbourne. As a proposition this is not merely preposterous, it is ludicrous, and it will not be accepted by the Government. 
If we care to carry the proposition further, are we then not to meet if the Australian Council of Trade Unions is holding a congress? To carry it further, are we not to sit if there is a meeting of a group of people which a member of the Country Party, or the Liberal Party or the Labor Party wishes to attend because he feels it more important to formulate their will than to come here as the elected representative and express their will? The reason why we are here is to express the will of the people. To suggest that we cease expressing it in order to go elsewhere and formulate it is to miss completely the. purpose of the election of members to this Parliament. 

 Sir, I listened to other parts of the speech made by the honourable member for Lalor. I recall in particular one statement he made. He said that he hoped he made it not immodestly. I accept that it was not made in any sense of bravado or immodesty. I accept it as the honourable member's sincere and honest belief.  His  statement was that he had more influence than Peking, Moscow and Hanoi combined. He therefore saw it as imperative, as his duty, to be at that meeting in Melbourne in order that it might be controlled and made a peaceful demonstration. 
So that he could help control it and make it a peaceful demonstration by means of that influence which he says he has and which he believes he has. 
DrJ. F.Cairns - By the way, my statement does not mean so much because I am assuming that Hanoi, Moscow and Peking do not have that much influence. 
The honourable member was elected to this Parliament on the same day as I and a number of other honourable members were elected. They include the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  as well as a number of honourable members on this side of the House. As the honourable member for Wills so engagingly put it, that was 29 half-years ago. It was over 14 years ago. During the intervening time I have heard the honourable member for Lalor participate in the debates in this Parliament. He has proved himself to be a very able man, as his academic qualifications would show. In his performance in debate he has been a very vigorous and competent  speaker  on economic and trade matters as well as broader issues - but especially on economic and trade affairs. When I looked at him and listened to him today, as he said something immodestly, I reached the melancholy conclusion - and I say this without malice - that he is a casualty of Vietnam. I look forward to the time when the honourable member will come back into this House riveting his attention on affairs here rather than being more concerned, as he said, with the formulation of will outside rather than inside the House. 
The reason given for this amendment is that the honourable member for Lalor and others want to attend the Vietnam protest meetings on 8th May. For all the reasons I have given in reply, the Government will not accept the amendment.  Mr Speaker,  I believe we should vote on this matter now and take up no more of the time of the House. I move: 
That the question be now put. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth did not intervene in the appeal against the decision by  Mr Commissioner  T. C. Winter to grant equal pay to process workers employed under the Metal Trades Award. The appeal has been heard and dismissed. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Presumably the honourable member is referring to the men who fail to comply with a call-up notice and who are liable on conviction to imprisonment if they refuse to enter into a recognizance to obey a further notice or if enlisted fail to render the service for which they are liable. There is 1 man currently imprisoned after being convicted for failing to obey a call-up notice. 
I am not aware of the published results of any Gallup Poll referring to 'gaoling of conscientious objectors to a particular war'. If the honourable member is referring to the most recently published poll on national service the proposition considered by the sample of people interviewed concerned men who refuse to register for national service and which one among four alternatives was favoured. Seventy-two percent of the sample which considered the proposition chose alternatives which would compel men who refused to register to render service of one form or another for 2 years. Actually the penalty for failure to register under the National Service Act is a fine, minimum $40, maximum $200. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (3) The Government has recently directed attention to the question of the adequacy of child care facilities in Australia for the children of working mothers. My Department has published a report giving the results of an investigation into the extent of registered Child Care Centres providing full-day care for the pre-school age children of working mothers. In addition, the Bureau of Census and Statistics conducted a survey covering the arrangements made by employed persons for the care, during working hours, of those children under the age of 12 for whom they are responsible. The information provided by these 2 investigations is being studied with a view to determining the nature of the action necessary if the needs disclosed are to be met. 
At the time of the survey conducted by my Department of all registered full-day Child Care Centres in Australia, 2 were provided by employers for the children of their employees. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
At 1st July 1966 there were 59,020 persons registered as unemployed with the Commonwealth Employment Service. The number of persons who were shown as unemployed in the 1966 Census - as at 30th June 1966- was 77,690. 
Commonwealth Employment Service and Census statistics of unemployment are not directly comparable because of differences in definition, coverage and timing of collection. 
 I move: 
That the House do now adjourn. 
In doing so, I mention that the House will not be sitting on Thursday night. I understand that some honourable members have indicated a desire to speak on the adjournment tonight. It is a long standing practice of this House that there be no adjournment  debate on a Tuesday night, but on this occasion 1 think it is agreeable to the House that the debate continue tonight, having regard to the fact that there will be no adjournment debate on Thursday night. 
To say that something does not have the confidence of the community does not mean that the statement is true. I believe there is a widely held confidence in the arbitration system in Australia. Furthermore, I make it clear that the Government intends to maintain the arbitration system because of the protection it gives to 85% of the work force in this country who rely on it to guard their minimum wages and conditions. That needs to be said firmly and clearly. Criticism can be put into 2 categories. It may be put, first, into the category of criticism from people who would like to strike the arbitration system down and leave nothing in its place except what they call collective bargaining based on the systems - if we can call them systems - or lack of systems which operate in some other countries and produce industrial strikes and stoppages of greater magnitude than we have in Australia. I see no basis for that criticism to be responded to as though there is something wrong with our system. 
The second form of criticism goes to 2 specific issues really, and it is not new that the systems should be criticised on these 2 grounds. One is delay and the other is the excessive use of legal practitioners in the system. In respect of these 2 matters I asked for an inquiry to be made by my Department and, with the consent of the  President,  by the Registrar of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to ascertain reasons for delays and the occasions on which legal counsel were used. I have recently had brought to me a report in relation to delays. The investigation required literally going through thousands and thousands of pages of transcript to find out why there were delays, at whose request the delays were and how long it did take before a particular matter came on for hearing after being filed. I received that report either yesterday or on Monday; I have forgotten which. But I have read it within the last 24 hours and I hope to be able to publish the findings of the report relatively soon. I am now considering whether action ought to be taken in relation to the delays, if there is anything that can be done to minimise them. Regarding the use of lawyers before the Commission, I am expecting that report very soon and when I receive it I will make it available for honourable members and the public generally to see. Also I would hope to publish a history of the legislation as it permits lawyers to appear and what is the present provision. When I am able to respond, I will do so. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Presumably, the United States law to which the honourable member refers is the LaborManagement Reporting and Disclosure Act of 1959, section 401 (e) of which provides, inter alia: 
No member whose dues have been withheld by his employer for payment to such organisation pursuant to his voluntary authorisation provided for in a collective bargaining agreement shall be declared ineligible to vote or be a candidate for office in such organisation by reason of alleged delay or default in the payment of dues'. 
I understand that many Australian employers arrange for union subscriptions of their employees to be forwarded to the union concerned. For example, as the honourable member will no doubt be aware, the Australian Workers Union is party to many agreements containing such provisions. My general view would be that there is an obligation onthe parties to such arrangements to ensure that they do not operate so as to disadvantage those affected by them. If the honourable member considers there are cases in which persons have been disadvantaged by such arrangements. I would be glad if he would draw them to my attention. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am not aware that the Commonwealth Industrial Court or the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission has given a precise definition of the term 'public interest'. 
When 'public interest' is at issue the Commission makes a decision on submissions put to it by the parties in all the circumstances bearing on the case. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is contained in the following Table. The figures given are the latest available. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) and (b) Aside from Conventions which apply solely to non-metropolitan territories or developing countries (viz. Nos 82, 83, 84, 85 and 117) and machinery Conventions (Nos 80 and 116), ratification of a Convention cannot proceed without consideration of the relevant law and practice in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. Some Conventions may, of course, have no, or virtually no, practical application at present in a particular Territory. 
Mention has been made above of a limited number of Conventions which relate specifically to non-metropolitan territories. As to other Conventions, under the I.I-.O. Constitution the question of their application to non-metropolitan territories arises only in respect of Conventions ratified by the member-State, that is in the case of the Territory of Papua and New Guinea, in respect of the Conventions ratified by Australia. The I.L.O. Constitution requires a declaration to be made for each non-metropolitan territory in respect of each ratified Convention. Some Conventions, of course, deal with matters that have little, or no, application in the particular territory. 
and (3) The honourable member is referred to the 'Review of Australian Law and Practice Relating to Conventions Adopted by the International Labour Conference' published by my Department in October 1969. 
I shall  make  available to the honourable member a chart prepared by the International Labour Office which sets out the ratification position of all I.L.O. member-States in relation to all l.L.O. Conventions. 
The answer to l he honourable member's question is as follows: 
Two; une in New South Wales and one in Victoria. 
In New South Wales on 12th August 1948 and in Victoria on 2nd January 1951. There have been no additional appointments since. 
Imports of Primary Produce from New Zealand  (Question No. 371) 
 I move: 
That the House do now adjourn. 
In doing so, I express appreciation to all honourable members on both sides of the House who have co-operated extremely well this morning in order that the House may adjourn now and enable all honourable members to go out to meet Her Majesty at the airport. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
House adjourned at  12.19 p.m.  until Tuesday,  5  May, at  2 p.m. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
I am informed $65,460. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. The case was Administrative and Clerical Officers Association, Commonwealth Public Service, and Henry Lester (22 I.I.B., 1734). 
Amendment of the section is under consideration in the light of the Court's judgment. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
(a) Most courses are conducted hi the 
Department's Regional Offices, each located in a State Capital. 
Courses vary in length according to subject matter, but are usually of 3 or 4 days* duration. 
Regular courses cover - 
introduction to District Employment Office work; 
techniques of counselling in relation to employment; 
interviewing in relation to employment; 
professional employment; 
youth employment; 
employment of handicapped persons; 
vacancy raising and promotional work; 
supervision and training. 
To meet particular needs, courses are also conducted o'n matters such as report writing, work planning, the reestablishment of ex-servicemen, and the employment rehabilitation of exprisoners. 
There are 4 full-time training officers, 1 in each Region other than Western Australia and Tasmania which each has 1 officer part-time. Their duties are to plan and organise courses and to stimulate on-the-job training. Much of the actual instruction, however, is done by senior specialist officers. 
Of the 4 full-time training officers, 3 had teacher training prior to their entry into the Department. The other has partially completed a Diploma in Business Administration. Specialist officers who instruct on the courses are experienced officers of the Department with considerable experience in training. 
Attendance at formal training courses conducted for Employment Branch officers during the past 5 years was of the following order: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There are no statistics available which would enable an answer to be provided. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Public Service Board's appearance in this case arose out of it being a respondent to the matters before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission involving the Amalgamated Postal Workers Union and other unions. 
The principles laid down by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission arc applied in determining whether equal pay is appropriate. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2)  1  have nothing to add to my answer to the honourable member's Question No. 295. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1)  Yes. 
The output of coal per man-year for Australia for 1969 was 2.770 tons as compared with  1,062  tons for 1959. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I would refer the honourable member to my answer to his Question No. 462. As indicated in that answer, I am having looked into the proposal embodied in the honourable member's question. 
I am wearing a national badge, not the badge of the Comintern that is worn by honourable members opposite. 
It is a very melancholy picture, not for the persons who find in the Moratorium deceit by the organisers, but for the organisers because the unions are not responding in anything like the way it was hoped they would. Furious activity is going on at the moment amongst the organisers of the Vietnam Moratorium to try to create a little bit more interest. Only in Sydney and Melbourne is any real interest being shown, and essentially even in those cities only 4 unions are active - the Building Workers Industrial Union of Australia, the Waterside Workers Federation, the Seamen's Union and the Boilermakers and Blacksmiths Society of Australia. Of course the Trades Hall Council in Melbourne is opposed to the Vietnam Moratorium. This is not true in Sydney, where the Trades and Labour Council recently had a meeting that was attended by 20 unions which are trying to organise a 2-hour lay down of tools on Friday. The fact is that in the other areas of Australia there is very little interest. It looks as though union activity will be confined to the maritime unions. So the response of unions makes a melancholy story for the organisers of the Vietnam Moratorium. Quite clearly the only people to whom they can look for support are the Labor voters, whose purpose is to attack the Government in contrast to the purpose of the organisers which is to attack democracy. Indeed it is very important to try to distinguish between the organisers and the participants. I can think of the organisers only as political bikies who pack rape democracy. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Conciliation and Arbitration Commission was engaged for a total of 76 days on hearings and inspections in the Professional Engineers Case. 
No. The associations sought increases of the order of 45% and in light of many discussions held by the Public Service Board with them, h was clear they were convinced they could achieve increases at least close to the level of their claims. 
The Public Service Board could not accept that such increases were justified. Thus, in the Board's view, no basis for further negotiations existed. 
The Public Service Board is an independent statutory body. In its announcement of 26th September as to increased salaries for engineers, the Public Service Board said that it had 'given full and proper weight to all of the factors relevant to the fixation of pay rates, including the totality of the evidence and submissions before die Reference Bench of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission hearing claims re salaries of engineers and, additionally, the representations and material submitted to the Board by the Association of Professional Engineers, Australia; the Professional Officers' Association and the Association of Architects, Engineers, Surveyors and Draughtsmen of Australia.' 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Conventions listed by the honourable member other than Nos  2, 97  and 118 are exclusively within Commonwealth jurisdiction. 
The Australian Government was not represented at the Conference at which Convention No. 2 was adopted. The Government delegates voted for the adoption of all the other Conventions except No. 108 - Seafarers' Identity Documents, 1958, on which they abstained. 
The considerations which affect possible ratification by Australia of the Conventions are set out in the 'Review of Australian Law and Practice Relating to Conventions Adopted by the International Labour Conference' published by my Department in October 1969 and of which the honourable member already has a copy. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2), (3) and (4) The position of law and practice relating to these Conventions and the considerations affecting ratification are set out in the 'Review of Australian Law and Practice Relating to Conventions Adopted by the International Labour Conference* published by my Department in October 1969. I have previously provided the honourable member with a copy. 
There are continuing consultations with the States concerning all unratified Conventions which deal wilh matters within their jurisdictions. In addition, Conventions which there are some prospects of ratifying are discussed each year at the meeting of the Departments of Labour Advisory Committee. Of the Conventions listed by the honourable member. Nos 32, 52, 58, 62, 81, 9-2, 98, 101, 112, and 123 have been discussed in recent years. 
Minimum Wage: Effect of Technological Change (Question  No. 809)  Mr Clyde  Cameron asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
To what extent has technological change during the past 20 years resulted in an increase in the real purchasing power of the nominal minimum wage for a standard working week. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Changes in the real purchasing power of the nominal minimum wage for a standard working week are influenced not only by technological developments but also by other factors such as changes in the stock of capital per worker, movements in the terms of trade, the educational level of the work force, managerial efficiency and economies of scale. 
As there are conceptual and technical difficulties in separating out the contribution made by technological change no useful answer can be provided. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information sought is not available in respect of each employee in Australia for the period indicated. However, there are two series of data published by the Commonwealth Statistician which may be of value in providing part of the information which the honourable member is seeking. 
In each year since 1962 (except in 1965) the Commonwealth Statistician has carried out surveys of weekly earnings and hours. These are sample surveys in respect only of the full-time employees of private employers subject to pay-roll tax, and are conducted as at the last pay period in October each year. Data from the surveys are only available for the period 1962-1968 and are shown in Table 1, following: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Sufficient to enable me to answer the question in accordance with the Standing Orders. 
The Defence statement by my colleague the Minister for Defence was, as honourable members who have spoken in the debate acknowledged, an excellent one. Perhaps I should have said it was identified as an execellent one by honourable members on this side of the House, not on the other side of the House. We have on the notice paper today a number of items and if honourable gentlemen look at the notice paper that they have they will find that 40 Bills are listed. There are more Bills yet to be introduced. This is the biggest legislative programme of which I have been aware in the period I have been in the Parliament. 
We are in somewhat of a dilemma. There is a very big programme of Bills that need to be passed. These pieces of legislation are not merely Bills that are produced for party political or governmental purposes. They are Bills which in fact are national and as national Bills they should be passed as rapidly as they can be having regard to the necessity for examination by all honourable members and adequate time for proper debate. Because of the size of the legislative programme I have had upon me very great pressures to keep the House sitting at night and meeting earlier in the day. The House has agreed to sit earlier than it normally does. But with all these aspects in mind and especially having regard to the number of new members in the House who have not yet adjusted to the tempo of parliamentary procedure there is a dilemma. The problem is to provide enough time for debate on major national issues, such as the defence statement and the foreign affairs statement, yet get the legislation through. I indicate to the honourable member for La Trobe that it is my great hope that we will be able to pass the legislation and still have time to debate the defence statement. 
I have had a discussion with my colleague the Minister for National Development. He informs me that there were discussions last night between him and the honourable member for Dawson. They did not anticipate that there would be any discussion at all this morning and so no arrangement was made. However, my colleague says that had this discussion been anticipated it would have been a different matter and probably an arrangement would have been made to give leave to the honourable member. That being the case if the honourable member seeks leave again I will agree to give him leave. 
 The matter of public importance before the House deals with the employment conditions for Commonwealth public servants in 3 areas. One is 4 weeks annual leave; another is pay rates comparable in private industry; and the third is outright equal pay. I will be assisted in argument by the honourable member for Issacs  (Mr Hamer)  and the honourable member for Canning  (Mr Hallett).  The honourable member for Isaacs will be dealing in some detail with annual leave and the honourable member for Canning will be dealing in some detail with equal pay. The part which I will deal with in some detail is the middle one of the three, that is, the pay rates comparable with those in private industry. 
Firstly, I think that the Commonwealth's wage fixing structure for public servants should be put in perspective. The Commonwealth is, as is well known to everybody, the biggest single employer if we regard it as a single entity, but of course it is not a single entity in terms of employment, because there are a great number of departments, authorities and commissions that employ people. All these separate employment arrangements are drawn together insofar as that is possible in the Public Service Board. The Public Service Board is the co-ordinator of wages and conditions for all Commonwealth public servants who are employed under determinations. My own Department is the co-ordinator insofar as the wages and conditions are fixed by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. The wages and conditions of those who are employed under the Public Service Board authority are fixed in the first point of time by the Public Service Board. The Board is a primary wage fixing authority. The way in which it operates is that a claim is made to the Public Service Board on behalf of an organisation. The Board then takes into consideration a variety of different criteria which have built up over a period of years and which are well publicised in the Public Service Board's annual reports in which it states the basis of its wage fixation. 
The purpose of the Board is to negotiate with the respective unions or associations the wage rates that are claimed. If the negotiations fail the parties can take the matter to the Public Service Arbitrator where the matter can be arbitrated. From recollection I think that the Public Service Arbitrator has 2 assistant arbitrators. If the arbitration is not satisfactory to either the Public Service Board or, as is more usual, the associations or the unions then they may go on appeal to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. The Commonwealth's long stand in relation to the fixing of wages and conditions has been that the parties ought to proceed through conciliation in the form of negotiation and then through arbitration. The honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  may not accept the validity of the position but the Commonwealth's position is that all major conditions ought to be determined by negotiation if possible, and if not by negotiation then by arbitration. 
In the case of a claim for equal pay or for 4 weeks annual leave the Commonwealth has said consistently that it is not able to negotiate such a claim as an individual employer separate from the entire range of the employment field, that as so many other people would be affected by a flow-on which would inevitably occur if the claim were granted by the Commonwealth the claim ought only be granted through the arbitration procedure. Equal pay has been granted, although I know from what the honourable member for Hindmarsh has said that the decision is not satisfactory to him. The decision was given by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to apply over the broad range of industry. The Commonwealth's attitude is that that is the proper way in which it should be done. Whether it be a good decision or a bad decision is open for people to argue about, as no doubt they will. 
The same thing applies to annual leave. I will mention annual leave very briefly because, as I said before, the honourable member for Isaacs will take it in more detail. Three delegations representing Public Service unions and the Australian Council of Trade Unions have come to the Government to ask for an increase in annual leave to 4 weeks. The last of those delegations was in December last year. The delegation put its arguments to Ministers and officials including the  Chairman  of the Public Service Board, the Secretary of my Department, and some other officials whose names ] have forgotten. The Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  and I also were present. The arguments were put and then, in accordance with the undertaking given at the time, the matter was taken to the Cabinet for its consideration. The Cabinet gave very serious consideration to the representations that were made. The honourable member for Hindmarsh knows that I have not had time to turn up all the records on this matter in the short time that has been available - they were not immediately available to me - but my recollection is that the Cabinet considered the very matter that I mentioned earlier, that is, this would have been a major condition of employment change. 
We had to take into account the impact that the decision would have had if it spread to the entire work force, for we believed that it could not be looked at in isolation from the remainder of the work force. The cost that would be occasioned by granting the extra annual leave had to be taken into account. The cost would not be confined to the Public Service but would spread into general industry. Consideration had to be given to prices and cost pressures that the increase would have stimulated. The state of Labour pressures at that time, in December, had to be taken into account. Labour pressures have not in any way slackened; indeed they have tightened since December. 
I refer briefly to equal pay as that will be dealt with in more detail by the honourable member for Canning. Equal pay is an issue that has been before this House on a great number of occasions, ft has been a matter for great public controversy and debate. Ultimately the matter was pursued before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. The Full Bench of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission brought down a decision which is now in the process of being applied. Essentially, the decision meant that those women in the work force who were eligible for equal pay would receive it on a stage basis over a period of 3 or 4 years, if my recollection is right. Nine principles were laid down by the Commission in order to give guidance to other arbitral authorities as to what the tests were to decide whether or not a woman in the work force was entitled to that graduated achievement of equal pay. 
The middle leg of this proposition of public importance is the Government's refusal to grant pay rates comparable with those in private industry. It is important to get into context the factors taken into account by the Public Service Board. The simplest way for me to do it is to refer to the 1969 annual report of the Public Service Board, which is the most recent report. Under the title 'Rates of Pay' the Public Service Board makes the following statement: 
In reviewing the rates of pay for each employment group the Board makes a careful examination of the information available to it on rates paid by other employers for comparable work. 
The report then goes on to point out that there are some difficulties in obtaining those comparisons in every case. It says:   . . the usefulness of comparisons wilh rates paid outside the Commonwealth Service may be limited, in some cases, by inability to obtain sufficient information on either the rales paid elsewhere, or the duties, responsibilities and organisation of employment groups outside the Service. 
I am leaving out some words which are not relevant. The report continues: 
Despite these limitations, comparison with rates paid by other employers provides an important first step in determining fair and reasonable pay rates. 
At a later point the report says: 
In making such comparisons, however, the Board has followed the principle, which has the support of arbitral dicta, that pre-existing relativities between groups do not in themselves provide a sufficient basis for determining new rates of pay. 
In two recent examples, which will be well known to those who are concerned with industrial matters, the Board has specifically reached a decision on the rates it would pay having regard to the rates being paid outside the Public Service. 
The first of these is what has been called the physical grades review for tradesmen and others which increased all rates by 6.6% as from 1st January 1970. This covered some 60,000 staff in the Commonwealth Public Service and was reached with the full agreement of the ACTU. The new rates were justified on the basis of the Board's examination of the going rates of pay outside the Service - that is, basic pay plus over-award payments. That would seem to negate at least in that instance the broad statement that the Commonwealth does not pay nates comparable to those in private industry. There was an even later specific instance with the review of the technical and drafting grades which involved increases of 5.8% or 5.9% for particular groups. Some 20,000 persons were involved. The agreement on this was reached within the last few weeks and the new rates were accepted without qualification by the unions involved. Within the last few week.the Public Service Board has received new pay claims covering the Third Division clerical and administrative area seeking increases of 14% in pay. The Board has also received claims from 2 professional engineer associations seeking increases for engineers. These claims rely, as put to the Board, on companison with the rates of pay of other staff employed within the Service, as well as other grounds. The Board will examine them and see whether it is appropriate to increase the rates having regard to the going rates outside the Public Service in general industry. 
Perhaps the biggest single argument which shows that the Government or the Public Service Board, which is the proper authority in this case, does not pay claims lower than or that it meets the claims of outside industry is that the vast majority of pay claims made on it are settled without the need for the parties to resort to arbitration. That is an indication in itself that the Board is not following a policy of allowing the rates of pay of Commonwealth employees to fall significantly behind the rates of pay of comparable staff in other organisations. For example, over the last 4 years the Arbitrator determinations as compared to consent determinations were 10 as to 131, 18 as to 116, 9 as to 132, and in the year 1968-69 there were only 14 Arbitrator determinations as to 232 that were reached by consent on the basis of the principle.; which 1 have outlined here this afternoon 
 I declare that the National Health Bill 1970 is an urgent Bill. 
 I move: 
That the time allotted in connection with the Bill be as follows: 
For the Committee stage - 
to the end of clause 18, until 8.4S p.m. this day. 
to the end of clause 21, until 10.25 p.m. this day. (in) to the end of clause 41, until 3.15 p.m. 
Thursday 14th May. 
to the end of clause 55, until 4.15 p.m. 
Thursday 14th May. 
remainder of Committee stage, until 4.35 p.m. Thursday 14th May. 
For the remaining stages, until 4.40 p.m. Thursday 14th May. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, I have declared this an urgent Bill because it has to pass through this House, go to the Senate, be passed there and then receive the GovernorGeneral's assent so that the benefits available to the public under it may be made available as soon as is reasonably possible. This Bill confers very considerable benefits upon the public, especially those suffering from illnesses or who are in need of operations, surgical care or general medical care. Because of this it is the Government's wish that the benefits be made available to them as soon as possible. These are the reasons for the Government's action in declaring it an urgent Bill. lt is necessary to point out also that the Opposition has circulated 33 proposed amendments to this Bill. If those 33 amendments were moved individually, seriatim, then from past experience I think it rather likely that we would have to have a closure motion on each of them, followed by a vote on the substantive issue. This would mean that 66 divisions were possible. As it takes between 7 and 8 minutes to count a division it will be apparent to every honourable member that we could be faced with division time alone - what one might call dead time - of over 7 hours. Quite clearly it is not in the interests of the Parliament to spend so much time with the tellers counting heads. Over 64 hours are made available under the proposed allotment of time. 
The honourable member for Oxley interjects and says that the arithmetic is wrong.  1  confess that I personally did not do the arithmetic but I will certainly check it if he says it is not correct. I have been informed by my advisers that the proposed allotment totals 6 hours 20 minutes. This assumes that the debate on the Committee stage resumes tomorrow at 2.30 p.m. 
My advisers informed me that it is 6 hours 20 minutes. However, if the mathematics are wrong this still does not alter the situation in any great detail. The period involved is over 6 hours. As I understand it, it is 6 hours 20 minutes, assuming that we commence the debate tomorrow at 2.30 p.m. The debate tomorrow may resume earlier and in that situation the period of time allowed would be over  6b  hours. However, in that regard I give no undertaking at the moment. I expect the debate to be resumed tomorrow at 2.30 p.m. 
In the course of the period of time allotted it would be my intention to talk with the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, the honourable member for Bass  (Mr Barnard),  and the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  who, as the shadow minister is in charge of the Bill on behalf of the Opposition, for the purpose of working out the- 

 Mr 
 DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! The Minister's time has expired. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) I am not aware that any undue concern is being caused to men, or the close relations of men who are referred to a consulting specialist by an examining Medical Board, nor should there be. A national serviceman must be fit physically and mentally for all service duties under full combat conditions anywhere in the world and no man can be enlisted for national service while there is any doubt about his fitness. That a man does not meet the required Army standards does not necessarily mean that he is unfit by normal civilian standards or that he is unable to pursue his normal civilian occupation or that he should be unduly concerned about his health. Where an examining Medical Board is of the opinion that a young man should in his own interests obtain medical advice or treatment, he is informed of this and advised to consult his own doctor. This advice is repeated in the official notice sent to him by my Department. 
The Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Whitlam,  by pursuing this course, proposes to do 2 things-- 
Sitting suspended from 1.1 to 2 p.m. 
The motion that has been moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  is to extend the time which would be allowed for notice No. I General Business today, which is a motion to be moved by my friend and colleague, the honourable member for Chisholm  (Sir Wilfrid Kent Hughes).  In the debate this morning, from memory, there were either 4 or 5 speakers from this side of the House. 
J am informed that there were 5 speakers from the Government side plus the Minister for the Navy  (Mr Killen).  Subsequent to that the Leader of the Opposition moved his motion, lt was nol unexpected because this morning there was a little bit of tactical play on the Opposition side, and I have no doubt that there was tactical play on our side of the House. The end result of it was that nobody on the Opposition side spoke to the motion then before the House. The motion by the Leader of the Opposition to- suspend Standing Orders is an attempt by" the Opposition to recover its ground and has the immediate impact of having prevented notice No. 2 standing in the name of my friend and colleague, the Government Whip, the honourable member for Henty  (Mr Fox),  from coming on. He would be moving for a select committee. My understand is that the select committee has the support of both sides of the House, and it was expected that we would have had 15 minutes from 12.45 to 1 p.m. in which to discuss this matter. That time was to be equally divided between the honourable member for Henty and the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson). 
The Leader of the Opposition says that that still stands. The arrangement might still stand, but by moving his motion he has eliminated the time slot that was available for it, that is, from 12.45 to1 p.m. Not onlydid he do that, but by pursuing this course he is running the risk of eating very deeply into the time allotted for the committee stage of the National Health Bill. The other impact of this attempt on the part of the Opposition to recover its position, which it abdicated this morning, is to defer the introduction of 3 Bills for which notice was given yesterday. 
My reaction to all this is that these things should not occur. We should not put off the introduction of these 3 Bills merely because of the action of the Opposition and in particular the Leader of the Opposition. When we get these divi sions over - and no doubt there will be divisions - if there is enough time I will move the appropriate motion to allow an extra 15 minutes for General Business to consider notice No. 2 so that the honourable member for Henty and the honourable member for Dawson can have the authority of the House for a select committee. I will then not introduce the Bills that were on the notice paper so that the committee stage of the National Health Bill can be resumed by at least 2.30. It may be a minute or two earlier, depending on how much time is taken by the Opposition on divisions. That is the programme I propose. I now move: 
That the question be put. 

<graphic href="067131197005143_29_2_3_P.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="067131197005143_29_2_2_N.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="067131197005143_29_2_1_A.jpg"></graphic>

Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Question put: 
That the motion  (Mr  Whitlam's) be agreed  to. 
I ask for leave to move for the suspension of so much of the Standing Orders as would prevent general business Notice No. 2 from being considered up till 2.20 p.m. 
Last year there was a circumstance in which a trade union leader was placed in gaol as a result of proceedings for contempt before the Commonwealth Industrial Court. Following that event there were widespread stoppages of work. Following that the Government, the trade union movement and the employers' organisations came together for the purpose of discussing the penal clauses. My colleagues, the then Minister for Labour and National Service and the then Attorney-General, had discussions with the employers and the unions. Discussions continued for a period of time about what I would term sanctions but what are normally called penal clauses. In early December last year it became apparent that there could be no further discussions on the penal clauses because in the interim period the Australian Council of Trade Unions Congress had reached a conclusion that the trade union movement would have nothing to do with penal clauses. Thereafter the discussions continued solely on dispute settling procedures. They are quite unrelated. 
I would hope that the dispute settling procedures will be endorsed by the interstate executive of the ACTU which meets next Monday. I expect they will be, because the negotiating team comprised the  President,  the two Vice-Presidents, and the Secretary of the ACTU, plus another very senior member of the trade union movement,  Mr Devereaux  of the Amalgamated Engineering Union. If they are adopted as dispute settling procedures they are quite separate. I think action will have to be taken in relation to the penal clauses or sanctions. I have reached the point where I have concluded my own thinking about them and I now have before the Government recommendations as to certain amendments to the sanctions clauses. Essentially there are two difficulties about the sanctions at the moment, and they are interrelated. One is the immediacy of their availability and the other is that merits cannot be considered. What we should attempt to do is to cure these two vices. 
The issue we have before us is an amendment moved to an original motion. The original motion is in accord with the normal practice of the House, that when a statement is made by a Minister a motion is moved that the House take note of the paper*. The question therefore before the House at that point of time was 'that the House take note of the paper'. To that motion an amendment was moved by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson):  that the following words be added to the motion'. The honourable member then went on to recite them. After the moving and seconding of that motion, there was before the House a motion: That the House take note of the Paper', and That the Prime Minister and his Cabinet lack the confidence of the House because they failed to honour a commitment made to the States by the previous Minister for National Development, acting for and on behalf of the Commonwealth Government, that there would be a further consultation with the States before the Commonwealth government introduced any legislation on the territorial sea and continental shelf. 
After that amendment was moved and seconded we proceeded during the course of the day to debate it. During the course of the debate it became perfectly clear to all people listening to the debate that the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  thought that he had given a commitment which had not been honoured. The Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  initiated the debate. He made it clear that so far as he was concerned the honourable member for Farrer acted sincerely and held a sincere belief. As the debate proceeded it became apparent that there was a different situation about which honourable members were speaking. One was a proposition about a certain extent of authority of the Commonwealth which had been outlined at an earlier point of time, whereas at the present time an entirely different proposition is contained in the legislation which has been introduced into the House. As the debate went on, views from both sides of the House were put. Late this afternoon the honour able member for Casey  (Mr Howson)  moved an amendment to the proposition that was before the House at that point of time. The amendment of the honourable member for Casey sought the deletion of all the words after 'and' in the Opposition's motion and that there should stand in their place the words that the honourable member for Casey moved. The amendment of the honourable member for Casey, if carried by this House, would substitute the words contained in that amendment for the words proposed by the Opposition. The words proposed by the honourable member for Casey are these:  that this House does not believe that there has been any failure on the part of the Government to honour any commitments. 
In the midst of a barrage of interjections I will continue with my case and come back to that very point and argue it, because I want to put it in perspective. Members of the House, in the flurry of interjections and excitement, may have forgotten the amendment. The amendment of the honourable member for Casey would substitute these words for the censure motion moved by the Opposition:  that this House does not believe that there has been any failure on the part of the Government to honour any commitments. 
The honourable member's amendment goes on to use these words: 
The House acknowledges that when the Government decided to change its policy on off-shore authority by legislating to take control from the low-water mark to Continental Shelf, the Government did not, at that time, inform the States of this change in the policy which hud been the subject of consultations between the Minister for National Development and State Ministers. lt is of the opinion that it is this fact- 
That is the fact contained in the second paragraph -  which has led the honourable member for Farrer feeling justified in believing that an undertaking that there would be further consultations, which he gave to the States, has been dishonoured. 
The matter before the Chair at present is a motion by the Opposition to disagree with your ruling,  Mr Speaker.  The ruling which you gave was that this amendment moved by the honourable member for Casey is in order. You ruled it in order. The Opposition, in moving dissent from your ruling, alleges that your ruling is wrong because the amendment is a negative of the amendment moved by the Opposition. So fat the Opposition has not quoted a standing order which prevents a negative from being moved. 
My understanding is that the practice of this House follows the practice of the House of Commons - and it is a practice as distinct from a standing order - that the direct negative should not be moved as an amendment. I have not heard a member of the Opposition allege that there is a standing order that prevents this. If there be no standing order which we can turn up, look to and read, we must have regard to what the practice is. My understanding of the House of Commons practice, which we are following, is that . there are occasions on which a direct negative can be moved. As I. understand your ruling or as I put to you,  Mr Speaker,  this is not even a direct negative. I take the point that there could be occasions - and I want it to be understood that this is my understanding- when a direct negative could be moved. But' I do not think that this is such an occasion, because I do not regard the. amendment as a direct negative. 
I think that the amendment of the honourable member for Casey is in fact an alternative. If somebody moved an amendment that the table was black and if somebody wanted to move an amendment that the table was not black, quite clearly that  a  a direct negative. But if somebody moved that the table was black and if somebody else wanted to move that it was not black and that there was some reason why it may appear to be some other colour that is an alternative. The honourable member for Casey has put an alternative in his amendment. What the honourable member for Casey says is this: The honourable member for Farrer sincerely believes something. The Opposition, seeking to make political capital-- 
I am sure that there would be no denial that an opportunity is being taken to make political capital. The Opposition then moved the motton. The amendment of the honourable member for Casey, 1 think, more accurately describes the position. It is an alternative. It does accurately describe the position and it accurately says: that this House does not believe that there has been any failure on the pvt of the Government to honour any commitments. 
You say that we do. I would like to try a vote on it and see bow the numbers go. It is perfectly apparent that honourable members opposite are prepared to go through all this performance. No doubt it is entertaining to those in the gallery and, for all I know, it may even be entertaining to those people listening on the radio. The reason why we are sitting here now discussing the motion of dissent from your ruling,  Mr Speaker,  is not that honourable members opposite have a real belief that they should dissent but because they are taking the point as a procedural matter waiting for some members to arrive. When those members arrive- 
The honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  has complimented you,  Mr Speaker,  very warmly and I join him in the compliments upon your wisdom. You have had the wisdom to know that the amendment which has been moved by the honourable member for Casey is in order because it is an alternative. It is not a negative. It is upon that alternative that the House will be asked to vote. The House will vote on the amendment of the honourable member for Casey. If honourable members vote as I confidently expect them to and support the amendment of the honourable member for Casey, that amendment, having been carried, will become the motion. We will then vote upon that. 1 expect in the course of the evening a number of divisions. I expect that until the members from the other side who are now winging their way here arrive there will be no possibility of co-operation from the Opposition in taking  a  vote. For that reason, if the Opposition chooses to spend its time debating a motion of dissent from your ruling rather than debating the issue, that is a matter for it. It will pursue its course, but I think that we would not want to see the forms of the House departed from in any improper way. The honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart),  in the course of speaking to this amendment, referred to the  Clerk  of the House. 
That has been answered by a prayer. The honourable member for Lang referred to the  Clerk  of the House. The  Clerk  of the House and his assistants are always at the service of every member of the House, and all of us lean very heavily upon their advice. 
Yes, he did indeed say it. We lean od them every day that this House is sitting.  Mr Speaker,  we have until 9.45 to go. The members of  the  Australian Labor Parly are leaving Sydney now, and they are duc to arrive at Canberra Airport at 9.45 p.m. The honourable member for Lang referred to the Clerks. They have a corporate experience covering the  length  of the Commonwealth Parliament. This experience is passed on from one to the other as they succeed each other. They devote their lives to their working career. There have been occasions when I have had disagreements  with  the  Clerk  of  the  House. He always seems lo manage to convince me of the  Tightness  of  his  view. He is the man upon whom you rely,  Mr Speaker,  for advice on these issues. 1 have no doubt that you relied on the advice of the  Clerk  when you accepted that the amendment moved by the honourable member for Casey was in order, and 1 have no doubt that you were right. The honourable member for Lang then said one other thing. He said: For the sake of this Parliament' and he then made some appeal to you. For the sake of this Parliament I hope that honourable members of the Opposition will not proceed and pursue this debate on dissent from your ruling,  Mr Speaker,  because quite clearly you are right. If the members of the Opposition wish to return to the subject matter of the debate, the way in which that can be done is to accept your ruling. When that is accepted we will have a debate on the substantive issues before us and not on this charade. 

 Mr MORRISON (St George) 19.4]- My mind boggles at the tortuous paths along which the purported logic of the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden)  has led us. An indisputable point has been made by my colleague the honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart)  on the basis of the Standing Orders. I do not think that the Standing Orders rule out the application of commonsense to the rulings of this House. I want to examine the negative of the amendment moved by the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Howson)  and to see where it leads us. Let us take the first sentence, lt reads:  that this House does not believe that there has been any failure on the part of the Government to honour any commitments. 
Let us take the direct negative of that. It would read:  that this House- 
We excise the words 'does not' because we are taking out the negative -  believes that there  has  been a failure on  the  part of me Government lo honour a commitment. 
That is the direct negative of the proposition moved by the honourable member for Casey. Where does that lead us? lt leads lis precisely back to the amendment moved by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson),  which says: 
. that the Prime Munster ami his Cabinet lack the confidence of die House because they failed to honour a commitment made to the States. . . . 
The direct negative of the proposition put by the honourable member for Casey leads us precisely to the proposition put by the honourable member for Dawson.  Mr Speaker,  may 1 seek your guidance? If the 
Opposition proposed the amendment I am about to suggest, would this proposition be a direct negative of the proposition put by the honourable member for Casey? To my mind the following is a direct negative of the proposition put by the honourable member for Casey:  that this House believes that there has been a failure on the part of the Government to honour a commitment. The House acknowledges that when the Government decided to change its policy on off-shore authority by legislating to take control from the low water mark to continental shelf, the Government did not, at that time, inform the States of this change in the policy which had been the subject of consultations between the Minister for National Development and State Ministers, lt is of the opinion that it is this fact which has led to the honourable member for Farrer feeling justified in believing that an undertaking that there would be further consultations, which he gave to the States, has been dishonoured, and in these circumstances the House censures the Prime Minister and his Cabinet. 

 Mr Speaker, I ask for your ruling on that tentative motion. 
1 would be very delighted to consult with the right honourable Prime Minister of Canada on this or any other issue. So far as this question is concerned my colleague the Minister for Immigration answered a question from the honourable member for Melbourne Ports on this subject last week. I listened to his answer in this House and I have nothing to add to it. 
No conscientious objection cases have been deferred. There has been a long standing misuse of the term conscientious objector'. Under the Act a person who is a conscientious objector, so found, is not liable for military service. There is a practice of referring to people who object to serve on what they claim to be grounds of conscience as conscientious objectors. I would draw the distinction between the 2 for the purposes of clarity. Secondly, I have a paper presently before the Cabinet. That paper deals with a number of aspects of national service. It discusses the issue of the possibility of a civilian alternative. The matter is before the Cabinet. 1 wish to say nothing more until it has been considered. 
 I move: 
Thai  the Bill be now read  a  second time.  My colleague the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Lynch)  is overseas on government business. In his absence I deliver this second reading speech on his behalf. Where I use the personal pronoun it should bc taken to mean the Minister for Immigration and not me. At the outset I take the opportunity to express my personal congratulations to the Minister for Immigration for developing this programme. 
This Bill provides legislative basis for the comprehensive programme of migrant education which I announced in the House on 23rd April 1970. The Bill,  Mr Speaker,  relates to the total area of migrant education, which lor purposes of simplicity may be dealt with under 3 main headings - the adult programme, intensive courses and child migrant education. As foreshadowed in my statement on 23rd April the Government has approved the detail of a major review of the adult education programme in source countries where pre-embarkation instruction is given, during the journey to Australia anr! in the community after arrival. Facilities for pre-embarkation instruction will be expanded, additional forms of instruction will be introduced and courses will be extended to new source areas such as Yugoslavia and the Scandinavian countries. The number of ship-board education officers will be increased and with the growing emphasis upon air travel we will consider providing educational facilities in aircraft as circumstances permit. 
In Australia, facilities for instruction in reception centres, in hostels and in the community generally will be expanded. There will be greater provision of part time accelerated courses to meet the needs of migrants who for economic reasons cannot engage in full time instruction. Greater use will be made of the medium of television and radio courses which are under review. Emphasis will be placed upon encouraging industry to provide facilities for instruction at the work place so that migrant workers can have convenient access to courses of instruction. Special attention will be given to the needs of migrant women - the married woman and the housewife - for whom, if they are to become full members of the community and if they are t participate in the social life, a knowledge of English is essential. Advanced teaching techniques will be used to meet the needs of individual groups of migrants. Research surveys already undertaken and those planned will identify these individual needs and the most effective way of providing for them. 
The full time intensive course of instruction which was first introduced early in 1969 is designed specifically to meet the needs of professional and other qualified migrants for whom an adequate knowledge of English is a pre-requisite to their being suitably employed. As a general rule only migrants who have reached a certain educational level are able to benefit effectively from this particular type of instruction. There is a considerable demand, however, for enrolment in the intensive courses and it is the Government's intention to provide additional centres for intensive instruction in Sydney and Melbourne, and to extend these to other capital cities and to provincial areas of high migrant density. The child migrant education programme represents a new area of Commonwealth participation. The Government intends to finance the salaries of special teachers in both existing Government and independent schools to teach migrant children who are handicapped in varying degrees by some type of English language difficulty and the cost of special training courses for these teachers. It will finance the purchase of approved capital equipment of the language laboratory type for use in the special classes which will be established. It will provide suitable teaching and learning materials not only to schools where special classes are formed but also to schools where there are insufficient numbers of migrant children with language problems to justify the appointment of a special teacher. Because what is planned in the adult programme and with intensive courses is essentially an extension of existing programmes, the Bill is concerned largely with the area of the major new initiative in child migrant education. 
The Bill is a relatively short one. The title includes the words 'for Immigrants and certain other persons'. The term 'immigrants' is intended to relate to persons who have been admitted to or allowed to remain in Australia indefinitely for residence. The qualification provided by the words 'who are ordinarily resident' in paragraph (b) of sub-clause (2.) of clause 4 excludes from the intended meaning of the word 'immigrants' those persons who do not have resident status in Australia. The Bill therefore does not relate to persons admitted for a limited period of time under temporary entry permit, such as visitors and overseas students. The term 'certain other persons' is intended to include naturalised Australians and the Australian-born offspring of immigrants who require instruction in the English language, as well as those who are immigrants under the definition already described. 
The short title - Immigration (Education) Act 1970 - indicates that the source of power for the Bill derives from the immigration provision in the Constitution. Clause 2 of the Bill provides that the date on which the Act will come into operation will be 1st July 1970. The State Education Departments and the independent school authorities are being informed that the Commonwealth will meet from existing appropriation costs within the approved programme which are incurred in the special instruction of migrant children as from 1st April 1970. 
They have been informed and I have no doubt that they will accept gladly. In the definitions clause, clause 3, the intention of the refinition 'of capital equipment of an educational nature' is that where the need for special classes is established State and independent schools will be provided with Commonwealth funds to purchase equipment of the language laboratory type. The definition of an 'independent school' is consistent with the similar definition used in the Act which provide financial assistance for independent schools under section 96 of the Constitution. 
Clause 4 covers in a general way the type of courses which are provided and to whom. Non-English speaking immigrants are not specified because English speaking immigrants and their children as well as their non-English speaking counterparts are to be provided with courses in citizenship education which are referred to in paragraph (b) of sub-clause (1.) of clause 4. Paragraph (a) of sub-clause (2.) of clause 4 gives the Minister authority to make arrangements for the provision of courses of instruction outside Australia, whether in the source country before embarkation or during the voyage to Australia and to adjust these as changing circumstances involving particularly international organisations or overseas governments may require. 
Clause 5 relates to the proposed new arrangements for the child migrant education programme as well as to existing arrangements for adult migrants and for fulltime intensive courses of instruction. The Department of Education and Science, which will be assisting in the development of the child migrant education programme in the States and will be responsible for producing appropriate teaching materials, will be establishing a committee to advise on the design and content and production of text books and other material for the child programme. The committee will include representatives from State Education Departments as well as the Department of Immigration and the Department of Education and Science. Full-scale production of material designed specifically for child migrants will possibly take two to three years. In the meantime selected materials already used in the adult programme will be made available for use by migrant children. 
Clause 6 indicates that subject to regulation a living allowance will be paid to migrant students, other than school children, attending approved courses of instruction. With the introduction early in 1969 of the full time intensive courses, students already attending such courses have been paid a living allowance at rates which I now set out. If in private accommodation, single students receive an allowance of $25.14 per week, of which $16.70 is for their accommodation expenses and S8.44 an allowance to meet normal living costs. For the married student, the rate of allowance is $32.73 of which S21.70 relates to accommodation and the balance of SI 1.03 to other living costs. For the migrant, in Commonwealth hostels, the allowance has been such that the normal hostel tariff has been deducted leaving the migrant if single a living allowance of $8.44 per week and, if married with a dependent wife, $11.03 per week with increases according to the number of dependent children in the family. The rales of living allowances are at present under review. I have considered it advisable that the rates of living allowance paid to migrant students, other than school children, attending approved courses of instruction and the conditions under which the allowance may be paid should be provided by way of regulation so that the detail of the allowances to be paid will be paid before the Parliament when the regulations are made. 
Some State Departments of Education have already taken steps to meet the problems encountered by migrant children in their schools and for this purpose are employing teachers in the special instruction of migrant children. Under the adult programme there are teachers who would also benefit from further training. Clause 7 of the Bill is therefore intended to provide for the training of teachers who may already be engaged in teaching migrant students as well as those who will be selected for training before being so employed. The payment of travelling allowance for teachers attending training courses, which is referred to in sub-clause (3.) of clause 7, will be in accordance with the rate of travelling allowance normally payable to government employees of the State concerned. 
I referred in my statement to the House on 23rd April to the need for research in the fields of both adult and child migrant education. Clause 8 provides authority for the conduct of such research which will be undertaken by the Department of " Immigration and the Department of Education and Science in conjunction with the research units of the State Education Departments and of appropriate tertiary institutions. Clause 9 as a whole is intended to make it clear that the Minister in making arrangements may arrange for payments by the Commonwealth to the other party to the arrangements. Sub-clause (1.) of clause 9 relates to the programme generally. Subclause (2.) of clause 9 relates to certain types of payments, which it was thought desirable to refer to specifically, with respect to arrangements entered into with the government of a State - under both the adult programme and the child programme - as well as with an independent school authority under the child programme. lt may be useful if I were to explain that schools which will qualify for financial assistance under the special programme for child migrants will be those where a special teacher is employed. The appointment of a special teacher will in turn require, as a general rule, a minimum of 30 migrant children in the school in need of special instruction in the English language - though the children may be taught in smaller groups. Financial assistance may also be available where a special teacher is employed at several adjacent schools or pro rata where the special teacher may be required only on a casual or part time basis. 
In the statement I made on 23rd April 1 indicated that the Government would finance, in addition to the salary costs of special teachers, the salary costs of necessary supervisory staff. We have decided in paragraph (b) of sub-clause (2.) of clause 9 to adopt the term 'administrative staff' as the former term we believe was not sufficiently wide to cover the adult programme. Administrative staff in the case of the child migrant programme will be concerned essentially with policy formulation, the control, training and development of teaching staff and the inspection and supervision of the programme at the local level. Administrative costs will also include costs normally incidental to salaries of both teachers and administrative staff - pay-roll tax, workers compensation and workers insurance premiums, employer's contribution to superannuation fund, and entitlement to long service leave of permanent officers. 
Under the adult programme, the administrative costs will also include certain operating costs to which the Commonwealth has been committed since 1951 by agreement with the States. Paragraph (d)  of  sub-clause (2.) of clause 9 is intended to provide for the situation where the State Education Department or independent school authority may wish to purchase teaching and learning materials which are not suitable for production under the arrangement referred to in clause 5 but which may be considered necessary to the effective implementation  of  the child programme. Clause 10 makes the normal provision for the administration of any part of the migrant education programme to be delegated by the Minister and is in accordance with the provision of such delegation used frequently in other Acts. Clause II indicates that the funds required from time to time will be provided under the annual appropriations for the Department  of  Immigration. Clauses 12 and 13 contain normal legislative provisions for the making of reports and regulations. Thus Parliament will have the opportunity  of  receiving progress reports on the operation  of  the programme. 
The Bill is intended  to  give legislative force  to  the programme  of  migrant education which the Government believes  to  be a matter of national importance. Some SI. 5m has been provided in the current financial year for migrant education. The greater part, SI. 2m, is tor the adult programme, for which expenditure has been to the order of Sim annually over recent years. We expect to spend $150,000 on intensive courses during 1969-70 and $250,000 on the child programme during the final quarter of the financial year. It is expected, subject to budgetary considerations, that expenditure on the 3 programmes will rise to $4m in 1970-71 and that funds to the order of SI 6m will be required over the next 4 financial years. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Daly)   adjourned. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The Convention, which has not entered into force, is fully complied with in the Commonwealth jurisdiction except on a minor point which requires amendment of the Navigation Act. lt is planned to do this when the Act is next being amended. 
Australian ratification of the Convention would not extend to its non-metropolitan territories. In accordance with the I.L.O. Constitution the Commonwealth Government, following ratification of such a Convention, makes declarations in respect of its non-metropolitan territories indicating the extent to which it undertakes to apply the provisions of the Convention. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am aware that from time to time statistics are quoted as to the number of engineers per head of population in various countries including those referred to in the question. These statistics, however, are not based on a common definition of what is an engineer, are obtained by different means and relate to different years. 
The most recent Australian figure, obtained from the 1966 census of professional engineers, as defined for census purposes, showed that there were 224 professional engineers per 100,000 of population. 
The prospect for a migration flow from the United States of America is very real and very great. The policy which has been pursued has been that a considerable amount of counselling should be done with each individual applicant so that the applicant does really have a full knowledge of Australian conditions and does not come here expecting to find picturesque things, which tends to be the view of a great many people in the United States. It really is a counselling matter. 
The number of officers was strengthened greatly last year. New vice-consulates and consulates have been opened in the United States so that officers can travel around that country, meet people, talk to them and answer their queries. The time that they assign for individual interviews is getting on towards an hour. There is also a considerable exchange of letters and information through the post. I have no doubt that in the future a great many settlers will come here from the United States, that as more come they will generate a chain reaction, and in future the United States is likely to become one of our major sources of migrants. 
The honourable gentleman in his question has provided the answer. The Premier of South Australia has every justification for making the statement he has made. I released employment figures on Monday of this week and it is quite clear from them that unemployment in South Australia today is 1.1%. I remember that 3 years ago it was 1.7%. There has been an overall expansion of the work force. These statistics would show it. But there is a more significant way of measuring this in personal terms and that is by the migrant flow. 
There was a period when the migrant flow to South Australia was higher than it was to any other State in the Commonwealth and then it had quite  a  marked drop. The test of this is that migrants go to a State depending on the opportunities available to them and depending on the reports they get from their friends and relatives already in the State. So the people in South Australia are themselves expressing their confidence in that State and its recovery by encouraging their friends and relatives to come to that State. 
The country apprenticeship system that was introduced by my friend and colleague, the present Treasurer, has been working very well, but certain trades are not covered by it. The honourable member in his question has enumerated a number of them. I am at the moment looking at the scheme in a broad sense, and I will be glad to take into account the matter raised by the honourable member. When I am in a position to do so I will give him a reply as to my consideration of the matter. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
I am advised by the Industrial Registrar that in some cases judgments of the Commonwealth Industrial Court and of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission are not published in printed pamphlet form for up to 12 months after a decision is given. However those awards and orders which are considered of greater importance are given priority in printing and become available about 3 months after they have been signed. The Industrial Registrar has also pointed out that all parties are supplied immediately with roneo copies of decisions and all subscribers to the Comprehensive Service receive such copies usually within 14 days of the announcement of decisions. 
Yes. 
Action has already been taken to reduce the delays that can occur at each stage of preparation and printing. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Following consideration by the CouncilI have been pursuing the matter with my colleague, the Attorney-General, and with the State Ministers for Labour. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The decision in the 1968 Meat Industry case is the most recent pronouncement of an appeal bench of the Commission in connexion with the exercise of the Commission's discretion in cases coming under section 41 (1) (d) (ii) of the Act. What was said in that decision is clear and it appears that an amendment of (he Act is not necessary or desirable. Guidelines which were appropriate in times gone by are not necessarily appropriate today or in the future. The Commission must be free to adapt its role to meet changes in industry as they occur and any legislative interference with the free exercise of its discretion must, to some extent, fetter its ability to do so. 
The answer to the honour able member's question is as follows: 
I am informed by my advisers that they are not aware of any decision of the Commonwealth Industrial Court which is authority for the general proposition advanced by the honourable member in this part of his question. 
This will depend onthe rules of the Union. 
If the decision constitutes a breach of the union's rules, a person affected by this decision can seek redress under section 141. 
There has been a very widespread programme of action, I would call it, by the executive of the Association of Professional Engineers, Australia to express the dissatisfaction of that Association with the decision which was made by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. 
The honourable member for Lang has interjected and said: 'That is a shocking thing to do'. I did not make that suggestion. I do not think it is a shocking thing to do. In the period of time that I have been in the House I have seen a very great number of programmes of expressions of dissatisfaction over a wide range of things and I do not regard this particular activity as any different from them. This is an association unhappy with a decision. There are a number of members of associations who are not happy and they pursue this through their parliamentary members. 
The first point I wish to make in regard to the honourable member's question is to put aside the suggestion that there was a rejection of a claim. The engineers made a claim for, if my recollection is right, about a 45% increase. The case went on for a considerable period of time, a decision being given late last year. About 2 months prior to the giving of the decision the Public Service Board announced that of its own volition, after having heard the arguments before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, it would pay an increase of between 11% and 15%. In the ultimate the Commission awarded that amount. There was not a rejection; there was an assessment by the arbitral tribunal that the amount that was proper to award was between 11% and 15%. 
The next point that was made by the honourable gentleman in his question was: Would I use my good offices with the Commission? I have no role of that kind, nor can I have, nor should 1 have, nor should any Government member have it. The Commission is an independent statutory body of very high quality and of great experience which is charged with wage fixing by the arbitral process when negotiations between the parties fail. I do not have the good offices available to me which the honourable gentleman suggests. He has had enough experience in the industrial jurisdiction to know that a Minister should not have that sort of influence or power. 
The next matter he raised was: If the matter is reheard would the Government refrain from pressing upon the Commission the acceptance of the Public Service Board's determination? The answer to that must be: No, the Government would not refrain in the sense that we would give no undertaking at this point as to what would be the Public Service Board's attitude before the Commission. The Public Service Board is an independent body charged with a prime wage fixation. I know very well that it is the policy of the Opposition to take unto itself as a political discharge of power the fixing of wages and conditions. That distinguishes the Australian Labor Party from this side of the House. We would not want to do it; we would not want to enter into an auction at election time with a government saying We will offer this in wages and conditions' and the opposition offering something else. The Government would not want to do that. Therefore, we would reject that point. 
The final point to make is that apparently unknown to the honourable gentleman the Association of Professional Engineers has at this time lodged claims before the Public Service Board for increases in pay. As I understand it those matters will be pursued through the negotiation processes between the Board and the Association. 
The Stevedoring Industry Act provides for a temporary situation. Historically casual employment was provided for on the waterfront. About 3 or 4 years ago there was a move towards permanency. Legislation was introduced by my friend and colleague, the Treasurer. Under that legislation there was authority to make regulations to permit permanency on the waterfront until 30th June 1970. In accordance with that change about 80% of people employed on the waterfront are permanently employed. That permanency extends only to about 20% of the ports, the remaining 80% being outports. It is necessary that legislation be passed before 30th June. I expect to introduce legislation into this House very soon. It has been delayed because of the need for wide ranging consultation with all the parties engaged in the industry. However, the present legislation will expire on 30th June and the appointment of the  Chairman  of the Authority also will expire on 30th June. When the new legislation is introduced I would not expect it to affect the staff of the Authority. As to the functions of the Authority, that is a matter for consideration. 
I do not expect that the staff will be changed. I think that over a period of time there will be some redundance as more of the outports change to a permanency situation, but there is no need for the staff of the Authority to be alarmed. As the changes occur I would expect my departmental officers to be talking to the General Secretary of the Federated Clerks Union of Australia which is the union to which the staff belong. I will be writing a letter to  Mr Riordan  within the next day or two and will suggest to him that there should be continuing discussions as the situation changes. 
I did see the report in the Press. I made the appropriate inquiries of the Department of Immigration. 1 am told by the Department that no approach has been made to it by Japanese consular officials as yet. On the contrary, the Department will make an approach to the Japanese consular official concerned and will ask him to tell it directly what the complaint is so that the Department can take appropriate action to ease it, if it exists. The honourable gentleman asked me to state the position. I think that I should inform the House in response to that request, for I think it is an appropriate request to make in the circumstances, that Japanese citizens need visas just as do all aliens. The Government has the opinion that as Australia is a major migrant receiving country the maintenance of the visa system in Australia is essential Therefore, all aliens are required to have a visa. That does not imply in any way that there is a more difficult process for Japanese than for any other alien. 
Japanese will come to Australia essentially in one of three categories. First, they will come as businessmen or tourists for short term visits. A visa agreement exists - I think it was signed in February 1969 - which abolishes the visa fees. The purpose of this agreement was to make the granting of visas simple. Normally, that is done very quickly. The second of the remaining 2 categories is the managerial and executive type entries. These are people who come to branch offices of Japanese firms in Australia. These people come in on a 4-year visa period with their dependants. There are over 400 such people in Australia at the moment who have entered for a 4- year period. They are over 600 dependants with them. 
The other group is the specialist group. These are people who come in for 2 years. They come in for some job that is being carried out for which no Australian workforce is available in that field. They come in after discussions between my own Department of Labour and National Service, and trade unions. 1 think that there are over 200 such people in Australia at present. The number of their dependants might be 50 or 60. 
The important thing which I should emphasise is that, in all respects, for these types of entries, the Japanese are in no different position from other aliens. The requirements for the managerial section or the specialist section would apply to people from the United States of America. Europe or from other Asian countries as well as 
Japan. If there are any reasonable complaints on the part of consular officials, 1 am sure that the officers of the Department of Immigration will do what they can to eliminate the cause for these complaints. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
On 31st July 1967, in relation to claims under the Public Service Arbitration Act which were subsequently amended on 8th October 1968 and on 6th November 1967, in relation to claims under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act as amended on 13th February 1969. 
On 21st November 1967, the Public Service Arbitrator beard Association applications for claims to be referred to a Full Bench  of  the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. Similar applications under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act were heard by Commissioner Portus on 14th December 1967. The  President of  the Commission on 27th February 1968 directed that the matters be dealt with in joint sitting  of  the Commission. The hearing of the merits of (he Association claims commenced on 8th October 1968 and concluded on 3 1st October 1969. 
3rd December 1969. 
The Commonwealth Public Service Board was nol the only respondent in proceedings before the Commission. Other respondents included State Departments and authorities and private employers. On 26th September 1969 the Board announced increases to engineers employed by the Commonwealth. 
The Public Service Board is an independent statutory body which has authority to determine rates of pay of Commonwealth employees, lt was in this role that the Board decided upon rales of pay for professional engineers. 
See (5) above. 
I approach this topic, this matter of public importance, completely without the intention that there should be any political advantage to be won one way or the other. For that reason 1 do not propose to answer in any detail, or indeed at all, what the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitiam)  has said. My approach, it will be seen, is markedly different from his. There is around this Parliament - by that I mean both Houses - a mood for change. That mood for change has been expressed in terms of motions that have been moved and put on the notice paper in the Senate. The mood for change in this chamber was initiated by the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  and others sharing his views, such as the honourable member for Ryan (M.'r Drury) and, on the other side of the House, the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant).  That mood for change has become very apparent to all of us in this House. The reason for it is perhaps that each member of the House wants to feel that he is fully discharging his duties as a member of Parliament. Within the broad spectrum of members of this Parliament there is a great array of talent and experience. We have a long way to go before we know what the changes are that wc should adopt for the conduct of our business in the House. 
The mailer under discussion proposes first of ali the setting up of joint committees. The 3 areas mentioned are Bills, other matters before the House and any matter of Commonwealth responsibility. Wc should draw a very clear distinction between the Bill processes and what I might term the general topics process. Any honourable member can give notice of motion or present a pettition. Therefore there is no limit on the range of matters that can be raised, lt can go directly to policy. The third matter relates to Commonwealth responsibility. This would appear to me to mean thai there can- be a move to refer a matter to a standing committee without prior consideration, lt may very well be that the matter can emanate from the standing committee itself. I have difficulty in accepting the concept of a standing committee which, by its terms, is at all times ready to receive a subject on which it is required to enter into an examination and which puts itself in a virtual executive position to consider policy. 
So far as the Bill process is concerned, 1 believe that the policy must first be determined. A committee can then be asked by the House to consider the Bill. Such a committee need not look at policy but can look at the Bill in a technical sense. The policy has first to be decided by the House and then a committee can look at the technical side of a Bill. A committee operating in this way would not need to call for persons and papers in the general sense as a committee might otherwise do, because the policy would have been decided. A committee looking at a Bill during the Committee stage would have before it a Minister, expert officials and probably the Parliamentary Draftsman. 

 Mr Speaker, as you know,  80%  of the Bills that come before this chamber go directly from the second reading to the third reading stage. Only  20%  go into the Committee stage. Many Bills that come before this House are of a non-political nature. I instance the Copyright Bill. I do not think anybody would believe that any great political issue arose out of that Bill. A committee could do a very fine job. The House could have standing committees to examine Bills referred to them when the policy has been decided.  Mr Speaker,  you have circulated a proposal which is before all honourable members today. In that you suggest some committees. I think you have suggested  7  functionally distributed committees. I have no doubt that the House would want to look at the particular functions, but I know that you intend the proposal for consideration only. I believe there is room for an Estimates committee, which would look at the Estimates prospectively just as we now have a Public Accounts Committee which looks at the Estimates in a restrospective sense. 
As to the general topics process, as  1  understand the matter for discussion here today it proposes that the standing com mittees will receive what the House sends to them and that in that sense the House will determine the issues that are to be referred to the standing committees. No doubt the House would execute their decisions in a foreseeable manner, depending on the attitudes of the Government and depending on who had the majority in the House. I question whether we need to have a standing committee as a potential recipient of a potential subject which the House may choose to refer to a committee. It may not receive any subject from the House. If it did not, it would in that sense be a mere husk. But human beings, and especially members of Parliament, being what they are, the members would be unwilling for it to remain a husk, and I believe there would be a temptation for it to enter a policy area which it ought not properly to enter. It should not enter into any matter unless and until the House refers it. So it seems to me that there is no necessity for standing committees for the potential receipt of these topics. It would be better for the membership of the committee to be determined when the topic to be looked at by a committee is decided. That, of course, would be the same system as we have now in the select committee process. I can well understand that people might argue: How does a private member or, indeed, the Opposition get the establishment of a select committee on a topic? I can understand that that argument could be put. 
We have not had a great number of select committees in this House over recent years, but those we have had have fulfilled their job very well. I do not see why we cannot have more select committees to inquire into matters which are determined. The argument may be put in response to mine: How does a private member or the Opposition get a topic considered for the formation of a select committee? If that argument is put, we ought to look at it and we ought to consider ways of allowing private members and the Opposition to get the establishment of a committee to consider a certain topic. I am at the present time doing my own think;ng on how such a method could be evolved. I see advantages in select committees. There have been good select committees from this House and there have been more select committees from the Senate which have fulfilled a very valuable function. One only has to think of the 
Senate Select Committee on the Metric System of Weights and Measures and the Senate Select Committee on the Encouragement of Australian Productions in Television, known as the Vincent Committee. There have been a number of them. The argument for select committees therefore is better, and I believe that they should be frequently used. They should ' be used essentially to investigate situations, to expose problems and to reveal all the facets of situations. Policy decisions could then be taken- on the committee's recommendations to operate in the area which the select committee has inquired into. 

 Mr Speaker, you will have gathered from what I say that I accept the strength of the argument for a Bills process standing committee, but I have difficulty in accepting the arguments for a general topics standing committee. The Leader of the Opposition said quite unequivocally that these committees should be joint committees. I do nor question the reason for the proposal that they be joint committees, but I do raise some difficulties which would make joint committees a problem. For instance, I think the basis of the proposition that they should be joint is the view that the standing committees will essentially be dealing with general topics. A general topic could be dealt with by a select committee of both Houses without any difficulty, but T fail to see how we could have a joint committee tei deal with the Bills process. This House would refer a Bill to a committee. The Bill would be before this House but not yet before the Senate. How could Senators sit on a joint committee to consider something that was not yet before the Senate? So the chronological position is important. This also adds point to what I said about drawing a distinction between the Bills process and the general topics process. 
The House of Representatives is the forum in which major political confrontation occurs. That major confrontation occurs between the ministerial parties and the Opposition party. That is what this forum is all about. It is a very different forum from the Senate. We have been having political confrontation in this House since this session commenced. Any change of forms of procedure for dealing with legislation must take account of this reality and must not in any way inhibit the political confrontation which is part of our democratic and constitutional process. The prize for the confrontation winner is government. Therefore changes adopted by this House cannot be a mere mirror of changes which are adopted in the Senate, which is, as 1 said, a very different forum. There is a mood for change but the change must be the right change. 
Three things come to my mind as things which must be objectives to be achieved in any change. The first is involvement of members with their array of experience and talent. The second is to achieve efficiency pf the procedures of Parliament with that involvement of all members of the House. Thirdly, and most importantly, there is the preservation of the constitutional and traditional role of the House. It is for all these reasons that I draw a very clear distinction between committees dealing with the Bills process and committees concerned wilh At general topics process. 

 Id this House, the Committee stage has tended to atrophy. When I first came here, very frequently very good Committee debates took place. Debates of that . same standard do not seem to occur now. When we go into Committee now, what happens usually is that the Committee stage is just a continuation of the policy stage which the second reading debate is supposed to accommodate. After the second reading debate determines the policy, the Committee has the time to look at the technical aspects of the Bill under discussion and to make sure that it is a good Bill. 
The Leader of the Opposition told us, when speaking to this matter, that in his next policy speech he will propose that joint standing committees be established on a whole host of matters. He no doubt will be unimpressed with what I am about to say, but I would like him to consider very much whether or not this is a proper process for the Parliament. In our constitutional system, the Executive must sit in this chamber. As the Leader of the Opposition says, the Executive is charged with developing, evolving, supporting and standing up to policy. It is not appropriate that that responsibility for policy should be abdicated by the Executive and put in the hands of committees. Equally, it is not appropriate that the political confrontation which is the essence of our constitutional and political system should happen anywhere but in this forum. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) i would suggest that if he wants to pursue further the matters he has raised, the honourable member does so by referring to the decision of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in the Professional Engineers Case. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) lt is the practice of my Department to examine all judicial decisions including those of the Commonwealth Industrial Court, relevant to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, so that these decisions can be taken into account when consideration is being given to amending the Act. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (a), (b) and' (c) Section 48(1) of thc National Service Act provides that 'A person who, being required to register under this Act - 
fails to register; or 
while the liability continues, remains unregistered under this Act, is guilty of an offence punishable, upon conviction by a fine of not less than Forty dollars or more than Two hundred dollars'. The great majority of persons who fail to register at the required time subsequently register either voluntarily or when requested to do so by the Department. Persons who are liable to register and fail 16 do so al the required time render themselves liable to prosecution and to bc called tip for service regardless of the result of the ballot conducted for their age-group. 
All cases of apparent default are investigated lo determine the person's liability to register and whether a prima facie case which warrants prosecution exists: if so, proceedings ure initiated. 
At the 31st March 1970, 929 persons hail been prosecuted for failure lo register. 916 were convicted', 13 cases were dismissed and fines were imposed in 842 cases. As indicated above, under the National Service Aci imprisonment is not a penally for failure to register. 
Collection of fines imposed is dependent on the order of the court in each case and the normal recovery process. I am advised that some persons have refused to pay the fines imposed. In some cases the fines have been paid subsequently by them or on their behalf. There have also been some instances where persons have been imprisoned for failure to pay fines. 
Australian Capital Territory By-election  (Question No. 911) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Discussions are still proceeding between the Australian Government, in full consultation with the National Labour Advisory Council, and the Director-General of the International Labour Office. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am advised that comprehensive legislation is to be drafted which will, inter alia, enable New South Wales to agree to ratification of Conventions Nos 58 and 92. 
Consultations are continuing in respect of Convention No. 32. 
I move: 
That standing order 103 (eleven o'clock rule) be suspended for this sitting. 
The term 'this sitting',  Mr Speaker,  converted to non-parliamentary language means'for today'. The proposal is that we will sit tonight and that at 1 1 o'clock, in accordance with the sessional motion you,  Mr Speaker,  will be putting the Question That the House do now adjourn'. It is my intention at that time to require you to put the question forthwith. Then, we will call for a negative to that question so that Government Business can proceed beyond 1 1 o'clock tonight. I know that honourable members are not anxious to sit late at night and I say that neither am I. But there comes times when it is necessary to do so. 
My purpose in moving the suspension of the11 o'clock rule for. today only is thattomorrow night the ordinary procedure should apply. That is, the question for the adjournment should be put at 1 1 o'clock. 
Next week is another week. We will reach next week next week. The notice paper contains a very heavy programme of legislation. 1 am quite sure that honourable members who have been in the House for any period will not remember an occasion when the notice paper did set out such a heavy legislative programme. Yet, I am bound to say that most of the legislation is, I think, legislation which the Opposition will not be opposing. Honourable members opposite may have attitudes which vary from the attitude of the Government on a number of items but I doubt whether many Bills will be opposed. So, although there is a large number of pieces of legislation and although each of those pieces is important in its own way, there is a great number of individual Bills which must be dealt with. 
On the 'Daily Programme' issued today, a number of Bills are listed. The first is the Queensland Grant (Bundaberg Irrigation 
Works) Bill. There remains only one  speaker,  the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly).  When that Bill is passed, we will go on to the Handicapped Children (Assistance) Bill. I do not know in advance, but I do not expect that Bill to be opposed by the Opposition. Next there is the States Grants (Special Financial Assistance) Bill which the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  will handle on behalf of the Opposition. I would not expect those Bills to occupy a very great period. Then, the Marginal Dairy Farms Agreements Bill will come on. Following that will be  6  Bills relating to dairying. I would indicate that, with the concurrence of the Opposition, a cognate debate will take place on these Bills which are Orders of the Day  6  to  11  inclusive. It will be necessary at the end of that cognate debate to put the motion for the second reading of each of those Bills as a separate question. Unless the  11  o'clock rule was suspended - that is assuming that the debate goes beyond II o'clock - it would not be possible to put each of those questions at the end of that cognate debate. 
 I have already listed for today one other order of the day. This is the Civil Aviation (Offenders on International Aircraft) Bill which was introduced in the Senate, passed by the Senate, and has now come to this House for its concurrence. I do not have complete details but I expect that that piece of legislation would not involve a great deal of debate in this House. I have not yet made a decision as to whether that Bill should pass tonight. This will depend on the hour of the night at which the other Bills are completed. 

 - Mr Speaker, I require that the question be put forthwith. 
Question resolved in the negative. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
My answer provided the honourable member with the information he sought. The 'Review of Australian Law and Practice relating to Conventions Adopted by the International Labour Conference', was distributed widely when it was published and copies are available from my Department. 
Equal Pay for the Sexes  (Question No. 1010)  (Mr Clyde Cameron asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Does the Government support the principles laid down by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in determing whether equal pay is appropriate. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Government has consistently taken the view that the determination of the principles governing the application of equal pay is a matter for the appropriate industrial tribunal, which in the Federal jursidiction is the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. 
I am advised by the Industrial Registrar that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
 The answer  to  the honourable member's question is set out in the attached schedule which has been provided by the Industrial Registrar. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  1 am advised by Commonwealth Hostels Ltd., that charges for board and lodging of Commonwealth Hostels employees are prescribed by awards and agreements and these do not provide for reduced charges to female employees. 
The answer lo the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am informed by my advisers that they- are not aware of any such law. 
There are adequate provisions under Slate law for prosecution of those who embezzle or misappropriate union funds. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. In its decision in the 1967 National Wage Case the Commission explained that the new wage fixation procedures it was then introducing, would ensure that under the awards of the Commission 'wage and salary earners will annually have applied to them the increases for economic reasons which it is common ground they may normally expect'. However, the Commission made it clear that the new wage fixation procedures required that an application should be made each year for an economic review of the total wage. This procedure has been followed in the two subsequent national wage case hearings. 
No. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Over the years Australia has been able to ratify  a  number of I.L.O. Conventions on the basis of Commonwealth action alone. If the honourable member has any particular Convention or Conventions in mind he might let me know. 
The answer to the honourable  member's  question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable  member's  question is as follows: 
As at 1st June, 1970 the Conciliators were  Mr C.  F. Lansbury,  Mr T.  W. S. McCloghry and  Mr J.  Stanton.  Mr N.  J. Mansini will take up his appointment as Conciliator on 1st July. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The industrial accident statistics sought are set out in the following tables taken direct from published State statistics from 1950 or the first year thereafter for which they are available. A note on the statistical basis is given in each case, but for full particulars of the scope and nature of the figures, reference must be made to the separate State publications. Because of the differences in compensation law and practice among the States, it is not possible to obtain national totals on a consistent basis through a collation of the State figures. No information is available for the Australian Capital Territory or the Northern Territory. 
The figures quoted in the tables for wage and salary earners exclude defence forces, employees in agriculture and private domestic service. They cannot be taken as showing necessarily the persons covered by legislation on workers' compensation. 
Estimates of wage and salary earners in civilian employment are revised after each population census. Particulars for periods prior to the census of June 1954 arc not available on a basis comparable with that of later periods, and owing to the adoption of a new definition of the labour force at the census of June 1965 the figures shown for the years 1954 to 1965 are not comparable with those of 1966 and later years. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The laws relating to industrial safety in all Stales arc in the hands of State Governments. Views on desirable safely standards are exchanged at meetings of the Departments of Labour Advisory Committee, which meets annually under my- Department's chairmanship, but any changes in legislation are entirely a mat.cr for the Slates. 
Within Commonwealth jurisdiction both  the  Australian Capital Territory and (he Northern Territory have ordinances on various aspects of industrial safely. 
I am informed that in the ACT the Department of he Interior is at present examining legislation and administration practice with a view to updating existing legislation and, where necessary, introducing new legislation to prescribe conditions under which equipment and substances may bc used and conditions under which certain processes may bc undertaken in the ACT. 
In the  Northern  Territory the Administration has recently completed a re-examination of the Inspection of Machinery Ordinance  (1941-1962)  and prepared proposals for quite far reaching amendments to bring it into line with State legislation. The Scaffolding Inspection Ordinance  (1932- 1961)  is at .present under review wilh the object  of updating its provisions and expanding it to scaffolding, protective clothing, explosive powered tools, excavation and boring, and heavy lifting. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. All States report a breakdown of total accident cases by industrial groups. However, accurate incidence rates for industrial accidents can not be stated since in no State are figures available for persons covered by workers' compensation legislation either in total or by industry groups, and the industry classification of accidents differs between the States. 
Classification by industry of injuries according to accident factor or agency and type (e.g. strains, falls, burns, falling or moving objects, machinery, etc.) are considered to be useful indicators of the cause of industrial accidents. Such analyses are set out in considerable detail in the publications for each State except Tasmania. Copies of these publications can be supplied if required. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No information is available from Commonwealth sources as to payments for settlement of common law actions in respect of employers' liabilities. Combined totals are available for each Stale for claims under Workers' Compensation and settlement of common law actions in respect of employers' liabilities. These are given in the attached table. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is the same as that given in reply to Question No. 418. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is the same as that given in reply to Question No. 417. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
According to recent estimates, approximately 700,000 man-weeks are lost each year through occupational injuries incurred in the course of employment, exclusive of diseases and accidents on the way to and from work. 
In 1967-68 over 5100m was paid against compensation claims and in respect of civil actions under employers' liabilities. 
(a), (b) and (c) There is effective liaison between the State and Commonwealth Departments through the Departments of Labour Advisory Committee and through the Occupational Health Committee of the National Health and Medical Research Council. 
Courses and training programmes in various aspects of occupational safety in various aspects of occupational safety and health are conducted by the Commonwealth and by the State Departments concerned. 
The responsibilities of the States in regard to occupational safety and health are defined in the legislation of each State. In the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory the relevant ordinances define the responsibilities of the Commonwealth. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. The reason is that industrial accident statistics are based on Workers' Compensation claims which are generally within the province of State governments and reflect differences in compensation legislation and practice that exist between States. Further details are contained in my answers to Questions Nos 414 and 415. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is contained in the reply given to Question No. 414. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information below takes account of developments since publication of the Review. In some instances agreement to ratification is dependent on the clarification of points of interpretation raised by the States concerned. 
New South Wales, Queensland, South Aus tralia, Western Australia and Tasmania. 
(a) New South Wales. Queensland and South 
Australia. 
Queensland and Western Australia. 
(a) New South Wales, Queensland and South 
Australia. 
South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania. 
(a) All States are now in agreement. 
Tasmania. 
(a) New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia and Tasmania, 
New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia and Tasmania. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As I am informed, the meeting to which the Honourable Member refers did not resolve in favour of strike action. I understand it decided that, if salary adjustments were not achieved by 15th June, a further meeting should be held to consider appropriate industrial action. 
As far as I know, the Association of Professional Engineers has not directed stoppages of work by its members. 
On matters of Association policy and the reason for the policy, the Association itself is best qualified to speak. 
Area Services : at Woomera  (Question No. 877) 
There has been no recent decision taken in relation to this matter. The Government's attitude has b.-en consistent over a long period of time. The attitude of the Government is that in our arbitration system it is necessary to have sanctions. Thos.: sanctions are necessary to apply against employers when employers are in breach o!" the award. 
Opposition Members - Oh! 
Those sanctions are also necessary to apply against unions when they are in breach of ari award. There have been a numb r of unions in breach of enjoining orders of the court and they have been fined for contempt. The great majority of the fines imposed have been paid. Then, as the honourable gentlemen and the House will recall, there was an event which intervened about May of last year when the Secretary of the Australian Tramways and Motor Omnibus Employees Association,  Mr O'Shea,  as a result of his refusal to answer questions before the court, was committed to gaol. Following that committal to gaol there was very widespread industrial dislocation. 
The Australian Council of Trade Unions asked the Government to arrange for Ministers to speak with its representatives for the purpose of rinding a way in which the penal clauses could be altered. Those discussions were carried out by my colleagues the present Treasurer and the present Minister for Education and Science. The Ministers asked employers to restrain their actions in the court while the discussions went on. There was a selfimposed moratorium by the employers by and large and they have not resorted to the use of penal clauses for about a year. I must say that this was an act of great responsibility on the part of  the employers especially, as the honourable member acknowledged in his question, as there is considerable industrial unrest at the moment. The employers' action in maintaining their attitude has enabled discussions to go ahead in order to achieve the settlement of dispute procedures. It has enabled me to conclude my thinking and to make recommendations to the Government on what should be done about alterations to the sanctions provisions, commonly called  iac  penal clauses. The legislation should be introduced this week. 
The Government for its part, through the Industrial Registrar, has been asking the unions to make payment of those outstanding fines. The Government naturally enough sees the issue nol merely as one of $36,000 but as one of principle as to whether or not there is credibility in the sanctions provisions of the legislation. That credibility operates in  2  ways: Credibility of employers in the belief that there are sanctions, when they return to the use of them; secondly, credibility on the part of other unions who have already paid the fines that there are sanctions. I might add that there are a great number of unionists in Australia who would welcome sanctions in the legislation as a catalyst to break a dispute when it seems unbreakable. 
So far as the collection of fines is concerned, it is important that this be proceeded with.  1  hope that the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the unions concerned will adopt a responsible attitude regarding what the Industrial Registrar asks them to do - that is, payment of the fines. Whether the fines may be paid over a period could be a matter for negotiation with the Industrial Registrar. 
The Deputy Leader  of  the Opposition has disclosed by  his  question that he has been reading the public news media and that he believes the speculation he has seen there. The facts are these: 1 did. as I have said in this House, review the operation of the national service scheme and I then made recommendations to Cabinet. Within that paper 1 discussed the possibilities of a civilian alternative. Cabinet considered my paper and after that consideration 1 made a statement which was very short indeed. I said that Cabinet had considered the matter, that I would be explaining  it  to my colleagues in  I he  Party ind thai after that I hoped to make a statement. The day before yesterday I had discussions with certain of the Parly committees. Yesterday there was discussion in the joint Party meeting and. there not being loo much time in the morning, there was a Party meeting last night The discussion was approached by all people in the Party in a most constructive way. 
I repeat that  thc  discussion in the Party room was most constructive. There are still members  of  the Party who have views to express and. in consequence, the discussion will  he  resumed at the next Party meeting. After  that  discussion I will  be  able  to  consider what the next step should  be. 
 I move: 
That the report be  printed. 

 Mr Speaker, I wish to explain to the House that this motion is purely a formal one. If the House will agree to it I will immediately move that consideration of the report be made an order of the day for a future day, and that will give all honourable members an opportunity to study the report. 
Question resolved by the affirmative. 
Motion (by  Mr Snedden)  agreed to: 
That consideration of the report he made an order of the day for the next clay of sitting. 
Later today I shall be introducing a Bill to extend the provisions of the Stevedoring Industry (Temporary 
Provisions) Act. I will then be explaining in rather more detail that the members of the staff of the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority need not fear that they will be affected. On the contrary, I see no reason why there should in the short term be any retrenchments. Over the longer term the functions of ASIA will diminish further and it is therefore necessary to have discussions with the union of which the clerks are members. I have invited the federal secretary of their union,  Mr Riordan,  to discuss with me and my officers what measures should be adopted in order to make sure that any diminution in the responsibilities of the organisation and any consequent diminution in the staff should be effected without causing any difficulty for the members of the staff themselves. 
I have been informed that there was a threat of strike action by the air hostesses and that strike action was averted by the meeting of their claims. I am unaware as to whether one of the airlines was willing to grant the claims at an earlier point of time and that the other was not. I just do not know the answer to that. 
The thing that is important in industrial relations is that when a claim is made both parties come together for the purpose of conciliating where possible. If conciliation efforts fail the parties should come together to arbitrate and when arbitration is made they should accept that arbitration. There is no reason whatever why there should be any industrial stoppages at all. The reason there are stoppages is the failure of parties to conciliate or more likely the failure of parties to accept arbitration when it is given. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
In 1967, an agreement was reached by a national conference, consisting of representatives of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, the Waterside Workers' Federation, the Association of Employers of Waterside Labour, the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority and the Department of Labour and National Service on a scheme for permanent employment in the stevedoring industry. In November 1967 the Stevedoring Industry (Temporary Provisions) Act was enacted to give the necessary legislative backing to enable the permanency arrangements to operate. They were introduced by this means rather than by amendment of the main Stevedoring Industry Act because the Government had decided that the new arrangement should be subject to a trial period before permanent alterations were made in the legislative arrangements for the industry. Following the enactment of that legislation, permanent employment has been introduced into 7 major ports in Australia. Approximately 80% of all the regular waterside workers in Australia are in these ports and are now employed permanently, either by operational companies for whom they work exclusively or by a holding company set up by the various employers, which supplies labour on a day to day basis to operational companies in order to overcome the peaks and troughs of labour demands. 
The Stevedoring Industry (Temporary Provisions) Act was given a limited life and it is due to cease to operate on 1st July next. The Government had hoped that by the end of the original period of operation of the Act to have introduced legislation which would have provided for the future and permanent arrangements in the industry. However, a number of factors have prevented us from doing so. Firstly, the technological changes which are taking place in the industry with the introduction of container ships, unit load ships and rollon roll-off ships is far from complete. It could be another 2 years before the future structure of the industry becomes reasonably clear and before the permanent level of the work force in the industry can be determined with any precision. Secondly, although only about 20% of the work force is not permanently employed, these workers are spread through a large number of comparatively small ports and there is a need to determine what sort of employment arrangements would be most suitable for them and for the industry. Thirdly, while the permanent arrangements have brought considerable benefits to the work force and while the position as to costs in actual stevedoring operations appears to be reasonably satisfactory - a factor which the Government regarded as crucial - the industrial relations situation in the industry has been far from good. Indeed over the past 12 months it has deteriorated to such an extent that the losses in man hours through industrial stoppages are of the same order as in the pre-permanency days. However, a recent agreement on wages and conditions between the employers and the Federation to which the ACTU was a party includes a no-strike clause on these issues for a period of 2 years. Thus while we hope for and expect a significant improvement in this area, there is a need to see whether it eventuates before making final decisions in relation to the industry. 
Because of these factors the Government has decided that it would be inappropriate and indeed premature to introduce permanent legislation at the present time. A further period is clearly needed to determine whether any major changes are necessary in the present permanency arrangements as a result of 3 or more years of operation and to work out the sorts of arrangements that ought to apply in the future in those ports in which casual employment still operates. For some it is probable that permanent employment arrangements of the type existing in the present permanent ports will be feasible. In the remainder, it is probable that these will not be suitable but it is obviously desirable that some regular form of employment should be introduced. Over the next 2 years it is my hope that suitable arrangements will be devised for all ports in Australia. Despite the Government's decision not to proceed with permanency legislation it was necessary that legislation of some form be introduced before 1st July because of the expiry date of the Temporary Provisions Act. Before determining what form this further temporary legislation should take I decided it would be desirable to seek the views of all those who have been closely concerned with the industry. Therefore, I have had discussions individually with  Mr Woodward,  Q.C., with the  Chairman  of the Authority and with representatives of the ACTU, the Waterside Workers Federation and the Association of Employers of Waterside Labour. These discussions proved most helpful and showed that there was a great deal of common ground among all the parties as to what might be done in the industry. Although I could not accept all the suggestions for amendments to the legislation which were put to me, I believe that what is proposed in this Bill will meet with general approval from all the parties involved in the industry. 
The present Bill has 4 main purposes. Firstly, it extends the period of operation of the Stevedoring Industry (Temporary Provisions) Act 1967-68. This is essential as all the arrangements which enable permanent employment to operate devolve from this Act and cease to have effect when the Act's term of life expires. Thus to enable the permanency arrangements to continue beyond 1st July next, the period of operation of the Act is extended for a further 2 years, that is, until 1st July 1972. This date also coincides closely with the termination date of the agreement reached at the National Conference in relation to permanency. Thus, it is an appropriate time from which changed and permanent legislative arrangements for the industry should operate. I would hope that well before this date, however, I will be in a position to bring before the Parliament, proposals for the future permanent arrangements in the industry. 
Secondly, the Bill amends the constitution of the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority. At present the Authority consists of 3 full-time members. However, since the introduction of permanent employment there has been a marked diminution in the functions of the Authority. Primarily, this has occurred in the permanent employment ports which as I have said account for 80% of the industry's labour force. The functions of allocation of labour and initial discipline which were major activities of the Authority have been transferred to the employers. Thus, there is no longer any justification for retaining a full-time 3 man Authority in the light of the reduced work load it has to carry. The Bill provides that the functions of the Authority shall, in the future, be exercised by 1 full-time functionary who will be called the Director. He will have all the powers and carry out all the functions of the present tripartite Authority. However, the corporate existence of the Authority is not affected. Furthermore, I wish to stress that the existing functions of the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority are not affected by this legislation. True, further ports may become permanent ports over the next 2 years, but this is simply in accordance with the intention and authority of the Temporary Provisions Act introduced in 1967. Thus, I do not anticipate that the enactment of this legislation will have any direct effect on the employment position of ASIA staff. 
However, it would be wrong to imply that the policy which the Government has been following in this industry, namely of transferring greater responsibility for the management of this industry to the employers will not ultimately affect the Authority's functions. Over the next 2 years, the Government will be giving detailed consideration to what the permanent role of a statutory authority in this industry should be. It is to be expected that there will be a continuing contraction in the activities of the Authority. It is impossible to say, at this time, the extent of the functions and the number and types of staff that will be required by a statutory authority in the permanent arrangements to be developed in the future. However, I do not expect that any major changes in functions and consequently major alterations in staff levels will take place before this Act expires in 1972. I recognise that the welfare and future of the staff of the Authority are matters of the utmost importance, and that proper provision for any who might be displaced in whatever permanent arrangements are ultimately developed for the industry should be determined well in advance of any such displacement. I have written to the General Secretary of the Federated Clerks Union suggesting an early meeting to discuss this question and have also advised the Secretary of the ACTU of this. However, I reiterate once again that there should be no cause for concern about redundancy on a major scale within the next 2 years. 
Thirdly, the Bill provides that the National Stevedoring Industry Conference should be given statutory backing and redesignated the Stevedoring Industry Council. Since 1965 when industrial relationships and work performance in the industry had reached an all time low the National Stevedoring Industry Conference under the chairmanship of  Mr A.  E. Woodward, Q.C., has worked with a great deal of success to improve the situation in the industry. It has been responsible for negotiating the agreement on permanent employment, overseeing its implementation and sorting out the many problems that such a major change in employment relationships must inevitably bring in its train. Of course it would be wrong to suggest that the Conference has been successful in all its activities. There have been disappointments and failures. It would not be an institution comprising ordinary human beings with conflicting interests if it did not have failures. However, there can be no doubt that this Conference, under  Mr Woodward's  capable chairmanship, has been one of the most successful exercises in co-operation between employers, unions and government, in any industry, let alone this most difficult and volatile stevedoring industry. It has brought about a significant change in employment relationships in the industry and it is largely because of its very existence that the introduction of the revolutionary container shipping system to Australia has been possible without the industrial upheavals that have occurred in most other countries. 
As I have said, there is a need now to plan for the permanent arrangements which will operate ultimately in the industry. Although the vast majority of waterside workers are now employed permanently, the fact remains that in a large number of small ports 20% are still casually employed and there is a need for schemes for regular employment to be devised for them. The Government's policy in relation to the stevedoring industry is that there should be a continuing effort to make the employment relationships in the industry as near as possible to those in industry generally. This can be done only if there is co-operation from all parties in the industry. The obvious body to undertake the necessary investigations and to advise me on the future of the industry is the National Stevedoring Industry Conference. Furthermore, whatever the final structure of the industry, I believe it to be essential that this should include some standing consultative machinery. I believe that it is appropriate now to establish such machinery on a statutory basis so that its status and role can be sufficiently developed before the permanent structure of the industry is decided upon. I propose that this body should be called the Stevedoring Industry Council. The Bill provides that it shall be constituted along the same lines as the present National Stevedoring Industry Conference. Its functions, which are primarily to advise me on the operation of existing employment arrangements, on the development of new employment arrangements and on such other matters as I might refer to it, are set out in clause 6 of the Bill. Apart from these advisory functions, however, it will have the function of endeavouring to bring about amicable agreement in relation to industrial questions in the industry. It has, over the past 4 years, been doing just this, and this activity is in keeping with the spirit of the recent national agreement on principles for the establishment of dispute settlement procedures. 
Fourthly, the Bill provides for the correction of a number of anomalies that have occurred as a result of the operation of the Stevedoring Industry (Temporary Provisions) Act 1967-68. While these anomalies in themselves are small, they have created injustices and the Bill remedies these. There are 2 types of anomaly involved. The first relates to the payments for annual leave. Under the permanent employment arrangements, the holding company and operational employers are responsible for the payment of annual leave to their permanent employees. However, in a number of circumstances such an employee may have had a period of casual employment during the leave year for which there is an element in the statutory levy collected by the Authority. It was accepted in introducing the legislation in 1967 that the Authority should reimburse an operational employer or the holding company for any portion of annual leave paid by the company which was attributable to casual employment However, the legislation did not completely cover all examples of such casual employment; nor did an amendment in 1968. The current Bill now corrects the deficiencies. The other anomaly relates to refunds of portion of the levy to employers who employ waterside workers on a permanent basis under special agreements, for example in container terminals, and who under these special arrangements do not use holding company labour nor claim reimbursement of wages from the holding company for the time when their employees are not able to be employed. It has been found that the definition of 'special agreement for weekly hiring' in the earlier legislation does not cover all agreements for employment of this nature and employers covered by some of these agreements have not been able to obtain refunds of the appropriate portion of the levy even though they meet the essential criteria for refunds. The Bill corrects this situation and both in respect of this anomaly and those mentioned earlier, the legislation is made retrospective to the introduction of the initial legislation in 1967. 
The BDI also provides for employers who enter into new agreements of the kind mentioned to be eligible for a refund of a portion of the levy provided that the Minister is satisfied that such agreements will not adversely affect the general permanent employment scheme in a port and will improve the efficiency of the particular stevedoring operations.  Mr Speaker,  this legislation merely represents a further development in the process of change in the stevedoring industry which we embarked on in 1965. It is essential that it be enacted now as the present permanent employment arrangements can- not operate beyond 1st July this year unless the Act is extended. I am hopeful that as a result of the recent agreement on wages and conditions, we can look forward to the industrial relations climate being restored to the situation that was achieved in the first 2 years following the establishment of the National Conference. Only such a climate will enable the permanent arrangements for the industry to be worked out in the atmosphere and with the dispassion necessary to ensure their success. The employers and the Federation must realise that the future structure of the industry depends very much on their performance over the next 2 years. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Charles  Jones) adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Bill changes the sanctions provisions, otherwise called the 'penal clauses' of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. Sections 109 and 111 of the Act dealt with industrial stoppages on the basis of the Commonwealth Industrial Court's injunctionmaking power and its power to punish for contempt. The Bill will deal with an industrial stoppage as a breach of an award but before the prosecution may proceed it will be necessary for the parties to have taken advantage of the conciliation or, if necessary, arbitration of a presidential member of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. The Bill comes at the end of a long series of discussions that have been held between myself, and my predecessor and the Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes)  and his predecessor with representatives of the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the National Employers' Policy Committee. These discussions began in May of last year when the ACTU made representations to the Government about sanctions provisions of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. I want to make it abundantly clear, however, that the legislation that is now before the House has not resulted from negotiations or bargaining by Ministers with either the ACTU or the NEPC; nor does it result from any bargaining between the ACTU and the NEPC. What is in the legislation results from the Government's own decisions. Throughout the discussions that were held between the Ministers and the 2 national bodies, there was no departure by any of the  3  parties from their policies in relation to the penal clauses. The ACTU position remains unchanged. It is that the sanctions provisions of the Act should be repealed. The attitude of the employers remains unchanged. Their policy is that there must be adequate sanctions provisions in the legislation. 
The Government position remains that sanctions are an essential feature of our system of conciliation and arbitration. However, the Government does not insist on the existing sanctions provisions in the Act. The Government sees the sanctioning process as being one of last resort. The Government wants to see every reasonable effort made to solve disputes between management and labour by the processes of negotiation, conciliation and, where necessary, arbitration. When reasonable efforts have failed and there is strike action sanctions ought to be available. When I put the proposals before the Government which have led to this Bill, I was able to take into account the representations that have been made by the ACTU and the National Employers' Policy Committee. The ACTU asked that the sanctions provisions be removed from the Act. This is not being done but I believe that what is now before the House is a responsible and positive response to what the ACTU and the NEPC have put before the Government. 

 Mr Speaker, the essential feature of the Bill is that before action can be taken to use the new sanctions process the Commission will attempt to resolve the issues that lie between the parties. I believe that the existing sanctioning process which involves the use of the Court's injunctionmaking powers under section 109 and its power to punish for contempt under section 111, are no longer appropriate or desirable. I believe they suffer from 2 main deficiencies. Firstly, there is the immediacy of their availability. Secondly, they do noi allow the Court to take hold of the dispute between the parties and endeavour to assist the parties to resolve that dispute. This is no reflection on the Court. The Court cannot concern itself with the underlying causes of matters which come before it under sections 109 and 111. Therefore, there is a provision that before a sanction can be sought, the party seeking that sanction must notify the Commission. Furthermore, the Commission will be constituted by a presidential member and he will be required to make every effort to settle the dispute that exists between the parties. Not until he has issued a certificate will it be possible to proceed in the Industrial Court. 
The giving of this role to only presidential members of the Commission is an earnest of the effort on the part of the Government to ensure that all reasonable steps are taken to solve disputes without the need for their existence to result in the use of sanctions. This is consistent with the Government's aim of encouraging discussion and negotiation between parties in dispute. The Government believes that the status of a presidential member will greatly assist the parties in working out differences between them and thus help to minimise the use of the sanctions process. This is certainly not to say that the Government sees or wishes to bring about any diminution in the role of the lay commissioners. What is now proposed will not bring that about. The very valuable work that the lay commissioners perform will continue to be performed. They will still be called upon to assist in settling disputes between parties including the day to day issues which arise and which may or may not involve the existence of industrial action in the form of strikes and bans. 
The Government does not believe that sections 109 and 111 are consistent with its aim of trying to have disputes solved without recourse to sanctions wherever this is possible. This means that when the Bill becomes law, the injunction-making powers of the court under section 109 and its powers to punish for contempt will not be capable of being exercised as sanctions against unions or employers for award breaches. Section 109 has been used principally in the past to secure observance of so-called bans clauses of awards and, where it could be shown to the court that orders made in this way under section 109 were being breached, the court could punish such breaches as contempt of the court and impose a fine of up to SI ,000. This is being swept away. In future, there will be I sanctions proceeding and not 2. Moreover, I would point out to honourable members that by clause 13 of the Bill now before the House, all orders made by the court under section 109 in relation to awards and still in existence will come to an end on the Bill receiving royal assent. 
Section 119 of the Act enables penalties to be imposed for breaches of awards of the Commission. This Bill will develop that section for use as the new sanctions provision and all breaches of awards will be punishable under that same section. This means that if an employer fails to observe obligations placed on him by an award such as, for example, the payment of wages fixed by the award, he will be liable to a penalty under section 119. If a union or an employer breaches an obligation imposed by a clause of an award which says, for example, that the union or employer is not to be party to some form of direct action, it will also be liable for a penalty under section 119. Unions and employers will come within the same maximum penalties for breaches of awards. The important difference is, however, that if a union or an employer is thought to be in breach of a clause of an award such as I have just referred to, it would not be possible immediately to take action under section 119. There will be an obligation to notify a presidential member so that attempts can be made to settle the dispute giving rise to the apparent breach on the part of the union or employer. 
I should also emphasise that the Bill provides that only a presidential member of the Commission will be permitted to deal with an application for the insertion in an award of a clause which would place an obligation on a union or on an employer not to be party to action that would hinder, prevent or discourage the observance of or the performance of work in accordance with the award The ACTU submitted that penalties imposed by the Industrial Court under section 111 of the Act for contempt of orders made by the court were accentuated because on occasions the court imposed fines for each day on which contempt was found to have been committed. This meant that unions could be fined up to $1,000 a day. The Bill ameliorates this. The Bill provides that where there is a provision in an award that a breach of that award constitutes a separate breach on each day on which the breach continues, the maximum penalty that the court can impose will be $500 for each separate breach, whereas the maximum penalty that the court can impose where there is no such provision in the award will be $1,000. These provisions will apply in respect of all types of breaches whether they be committed by a union or by employers. 
In its representations to the Government the ACTU submitted that in addition to the penalties imposed for contempt of orders made by the court there was an added burden in the form of the costs awarded by the court in proceedings under both sections 109 and 111. The Government is not prepared to eliminate completely the awarding of costs in sanctions proceedings. This would be to set a most undesirable precedent. However, in 1967 the Conciliation and Arbitration Regulations were amended so as to provide that in connection with proceedings under sections 109 and 1 1 1 costs could not be awarded in respect of more than 1 counsel or in respect of  Her  Majesty's Counsel, except if the court held that the nature of the proceedings was such as to warrant the appearance of more than 1 counsel or  Her  Majesty's Counsel. The Government proposes to have the regulations amended following the passage of this Bill to extend that provision to proceedings taken under section 1 19. 
Also relevant to costs is clause 17 of the Bill which provides that employees of organisations will be able to appear before the court. Nowadays many organisations of employers and employees engage persons such as industrial officers. Their every day work makes them knowledgeable and experienced in industrial matters and, therefore, the Government sees no reason why they should not be permitted to appear before the court within the existing framework of section 117a. Similarly, the Bill would permit employees of organisations to appear before the Commission and the Flight Crew Officers Industrial Tribunal. Moreover, since the Bill would take away from the Industrial Court its power to order compliance with an award under section 109 and its power to punish breaches of such orders as contempt there will be a reduction of legal costs. 
There are other related provisions which 1 now mention briefly because they are largely of a consequential nature. Section 109a of the Act will be repealed because it was related to the provisions of section 109 now being deleted. The appeal and reference provisions of the Act will apply to proceedings before a presidential member when he is dealing with matters to which clause 6 of the Bill refers. The new sanctions process thai I have outlined will also apply in respect to the Flight Crew Officers Industrial Tribunal and the Coal Industry Tribunal except that the role of a presidential member will be exercised by those persons who constitute those tribunals. The Bill also proposes an amendment of the Conciliation and Arbitration Regulations to provide for payment of fees and travelling allowance to the person constituting the Flight Crew Officers Industrial Tribunal and to persons appointed by the Minister under the Act to deal with a particular industrial question involving flight crew of aircraft. 
Regulations prescribing fees and travelling allowance for these persons were notified in the Commonwealth 'Gazette* on 15th January this year. The Regulations included a provision validating payments made from 13th December 1967, when a person was first appointed. On 21st May the Senate disallowed the regulations on the grounds of the high degree of retrospectivity for which the regulations provided and the fact that payments had been made in anticipation of the making of the regulations. Clause 21 of the Bill provides for the amendment of the Conciliation and Arbitration Regulations in the terms contained in the amendments made by the disallowed regulations and provides that all payments made shall be taken to have been validly made. After the Bill becomes law there will be a fee of $75 a sitting day for the person constituting the Tribunal, $100 a sitting duy for a person appointed by the Minister to deal wilh an industrial question and travelling allowance for each at the rate of $21 a day. Power to amend or repeal the regulations by further regulations is preserved for the future. 

 Mr Speaker, this Bill contains a positive response to representations made to the Government by both the ACTU and the 
National Employers* Policy Committee. The Government has not taken a hard line approach lo the matter of sanctions, lt has sought to bring the sanctions process more into line wilh what it believes to be current needs, lt has not resiled from its po1 icy that there must be sanctions. It has once again reiterated thai it sees die sanctions process as a last resort process. The emphasis of the Bill is on the use of negotiation, conciliation and, where necessary, arbitration, to resolve industrial issues between management and labour. The Government does not believe that the existing sanctions process represented by sections 109 and 111 is appropriate any longer. This indicates that the Government recognises the thought and attention being given to our system of conciliation and arbitration at the present time. 1 also have been .giving a very great deal of thought to thai system. 
There have recently been developed by national tripartite agreement a set of 'Principles for guidance in establishing and using effective procedures for avoiding and settling' industrial disputes'. I welcome this agreement. Ii represents an important step forward not merely because it will lead to detailed dispute settlement procedures but also because it is the product of tripartite national discussions. If Government, employers and the trade union movement cun find common ground on principles relating to such a fundamental matter, then the process of translating those principles into detailed procedures at plant and industry level should follow. The principles were worked out between Ministers and the ACTU and the NEPC independently of their respective attitudes to industrial sanctions. They are not linked in any way wilh what is included in this Bill. Their importance is that sensibly used they ought to go a very long way towards making the sanctions provisions of the Bill the last resort which they are intended to be. 
I take this opportunity to acknowledge the effort contributed by my predecessor and the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  when he was AttorneyGeneral in the evolution of the dispute settling procedures. The present AttorneyGenera!  (Mr Hughes)  has participated with mc in our discussions since November last with the ACTU and the NEPC. I take this opportunity to express my thanks to my 3 colleagues. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Clyde  Cameron) adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The Boilermakers' and Blacksmiths' Society notified the Commission under Section 28 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act of a dispute between it and Cockatoo Docks and Engineering Co. Pty Ltd in which the society was claiming rates for aluminium welding as apply at the Garden Island Dockyard. During the hearing before Commissioner Winter, the representative of the Company opposed the union approach to having the claim determined by Section 28 notification. The company apparently believed that the claim was of such a nature that it should be the subject of an application to vary the award. The company indicated to the Commission that it would accept short notice of an application to vary the award. On this basis, the hearing of issues involved proceeded 
On 9th March, the Commissioner concluded that the application must fail in the form in which it was made. On the following day, a meeting took place between workers' representatives and management at which management said that it had been established to the company's satisfaction that there was no longer a connection as to wage rates with Garden Island and the company then agreed to pay the rates sought as an over-award payment from 6th February, 1970. 
In my view, the Commission is best placed to judge how particular disputes before it are dealt with. It is a matter of law that the Commission's jurisdiction extends only to interstate industrial disputes. 
I would not propose to initiate action along the lines referred to by the honourable member. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Details of the number of registered unemployed and registered vacancies in each State in each month since 1st July 1969 are shown in Table 1 below. The Table separates, as requested, the numbers in metropolitan and non-metropolitan areas. 
The Unemployment Benefit scheme is administered by my colleague, the Minister for Social Services, who has provided the following information relating to benefits payable since 1st July 1969: 
From 1st July to 20th September 1969, the unemployment benefit rates payable were - 
Adult claimant - $8.25 per week 
Dependent spouse -$6.00 per week 
Each child (under 16) - $1.50 per week. 
Since 20th September 1969 until the present, the rates have been - 
Adult claimant - $10.00 per week 
Dependent spouse - $7.00 per week 
First child (under 16) - $2.50 per week 
Each other child (under 16) - $3.50 per week. 
These rates apply equally in metropolitan and non-metropolitan areas. 
Table 2 below provides details of the amounts of unemployment benefit paid in each month since the beginning of July 1969 in the metropolitan and non-metropolitan areas of each State. 
The answer to almost all the question is yes, but I could not leave the answer in that form. It is the belief of the Government that it is imperative to maintain the conciliation and arbitration system. Through this institution there is a spreading of the benefits of a productive society throughout all portions of the work  force. It is very important that it should exercise a role in conciliation to prevent disputes and if the conciliation is unsuccessful then to arbitrate the disputes. As the honourable gentleman will know, I introduced legislation into the House last week which will give the Commission a new role in terms of the application of sanctions under the legislation. If there were no arbitration commission I fear that the community would descend into a state of outright collective bargaining. In such a condition 1 have no doubt whatever that there would be stratification of incomes not dependent on skill or social desirability but dependent only upon the possession of naked industrial power and I think that would be against the interests of our society and our economy. 
I did see a notice convening such a meeting. Among those who persistently and consistently refuse to render military service, which they are obliged to do by law, are different categories of people. One of these categories consists of people whose sole objective is to use the vehicle of demonstration and protest for the purposes of denigrating the national service scheme and achieving its repeal. Whatever is done, these people will persist with that attitude. So far as. I can understand their attitude they would oppose national service in any circumstances and at any time, and whatever was done they would continue to use the vehicle of protest and demonstration for the purpose of having the legislation repealed. 
 The Government is opposed to the amendment for the reasons explained by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  in his speech in the second reading debate. I recall the attention of the Committee to those comments. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Dr Patterson's amendment)  stand part of the Bill. 
by leave -  Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a short explanation of the situation. When a piece of legislation is returned to this House from the Senate it may be returned with amendments or requests. If requests are passed by the Senate the Senate does not proceed to the third reading stage; it reports the requests without having disposed of the legislation. The consequence of this is that the Senate has reported to the House requests which the Senate has made, and order of the day No. 3 is Government business to consider those requests. However, as the Senate also passed amendments in the Committee stage, the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  proposes to make a statement which will put the whole matter in context and deal with the requests and amendments. Normally, if there were requests only, the Minister would make a statement when the matter was called on as to what this House would do with the requests. But for the sake of the convenience of the House he wants to have the overall picture in relation to the requests and amendments. Therefore he needs leave to make the statement, otherwise the consideration of the amendments would be irrelevant even though it is in the interests of the House to consider them together. That is the way in which this matter arose. 

 Mr WHITLAM (Werriwa- Leader of the Opposition)- by leave - Since I raised this matter the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  has been good enough to supply my colleague the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  who will represent the Opposition on this Bill, with a copy of the statement which the Minister will seek leave to make. 
by leave - I move: 
That until the end of the present period of sittings, and in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, leave be granted to the Parliamentary Standing' Committee on Public Works to meet during the sittings of the House. 
 I move: 
That standing order 103 (eleven o'clock rule) be suspended until the end of this period of sittings. 
Over very many years, at least sinceI have been a member of this House - and it certainly was true before I came into this place - it has been usual for the House to suspend the 1 1 o'clock rule towards the end of the session. The motion I moved to suspend the 1 1 o'clock rule is introduced later this year than is usual. Last week the 1 1 o'clock rule was suspended for a day, the Wednesday. Standing order 103 prevents the introduction of new business after the hour of  11  p.m. The purpose of my motion is to suspend that standing order so that new business can be introduced after that hour. 
If honourable members look at the notice paper for today they will see about 30 items, in a legislative sense. Some of those items are Bills which are interrelated and the notice paper does not fully disclose the situation. At first glance it does appear to be a very heavy legislative programme but upon examination it will be seen that it is not as heavy as appears at first glance. However it is necessary, towards the end of the session, to bring forward for debate by the Parliament after 1 1 p.m. legislation which would not require long debate and which very likely would not be opposed by the Opposition. It is necessary also at this stage of the sittings for the House to be able to deal with amendments, if any are made, to legislation returned from the Senate. 
The question of when the House will rise is in the mind of every honourable member. There is hardly anybody who does not say to me when I pass him. in the corridor: 'When are we getting up?' The staff of Parliament House also wishto know - the Clerks, the attendants, the Hansard staff, the people of the Joint House Department who arrange for the meals, cups of tea and so on.It is true to say that people representing the public media who report the proceedings of Parliament, another area of importance to the Parliament, are involved in this matter. They also wish to know when the House will rise in order that they can make their plans. One of the people in this place who does so much for all honourable members,  Mr Gordon  Pike, whose duty it is to arrange transport, also would like to know. I would like to be able to give a firm answer but I cannot do so. I can only say that by Friday the House could complete consideration of the legislation which needs to be passed in this session. It could complete it. Whether it does so remains to be seen. 1 cannot carry the matter beyond that. 
 I move: 
That the amendments be agreed to. 
When this Bill was before this chamber it provided for the fixing of salaries and allowances by determination, but when it went before the Senate this provision was replaced by a provisionwhich required that salaries be fixed at such an amount as the Parliament provides. The way in which this will be done will be by including the salaries in the appropriations. Allowances are to be as prescribed, which means that they will be fixed by regulation. 
This provision has been included in a couple of other Bills. It was included in the Defence Bill which was debated recently because a regulation concerning allowances paid to Chiefs of Staff had been disallowed. The Senate also included this provision in the Parliamentary Counsel Bill. The Government will accept the amendment in relation to the Australian Film Development Corporation Bill. If I can be irrelevant for a moment,  Mr Chairman,  I would like to point out that the Government will also do so in relation to 2 other pieces of legislation which have yet to come in. I refer to the Export Payments Insurance Corporation Bill and the Metric Conversion Bill. Another Bill which is before the chamber at present, the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation Bill, also has a provision similar to the one which has been amended in the other place. I understand that the honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart)  will be moving an amendment in terms of the amendment which was moved in relation to the Parliamentary Counsel Bill.  His  amendment will be accepted. So that the chamber has before it the Australian Film Development Corporation Bill, which will be followed shortly by the Metric Conversion Bill. An amendment in the Senate to the Export Payments Insurance Corporation Bill will be also reported. These 3 amendments will be accepted. When the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation Bill comes before the chamber the amendment moved by the honourable member for Lang will be accepted. 
I am not aware of that. However, I shall certainly look at it. 
In responding to the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  I agree largely with what he has said but I should like to put in his mind, because he is in charge of this Bill for the Opposition, and other honourable members opposite will have charge of other Bills, that while I agree with the principle that the Senate is seeking to establish, namely, to provide for salaries as the Parliament determines, there are circumstances in which it would be a matter of trivia for the Parliament to be making such provisions in the Appropriation Bills. I am thinking of part-time members of a board who may be paid about $35 a sitting day and who may sit for a matter of 6, 8, 10 or 12 days a year. If the Parliament wanted to make provision for the remuneration for such people I believe that would be the other end of the scale. I would propose, during the recess period, to look to the possibility of achieving a formula which may be incorporated in legislation and be standard. That formula would take account of differing circumstances. There are some significant statutory officers as, for instance, the Parliamentary Counsel, but, without intending any disrespect whatever to the people who would constitute the governing body of the Australian Film Development Corporation, it may not be necessary for the Parliament to provide the salaries for those persons. It may be more- appropriate for this to be done by way of regulations.I just indicate to the honourable gentleman and generally that we would propose to look at this aspect during the recess. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Resolution reported; report adopted. 
I move: 
That the amendments be agreed to. 
The remarks that I made in relation to the Australian Film Development Corporation Bill apply to this Bill, which, when it left this chamber provided that salaries would be paid 'as the Governor-General determines'. The Senate deleted those words and inserted 'as the Parliament provides, but until the first day of January, One thousand nine hundred and seventy-one, that remuneration shall be as is prescribed'. This will mean that after 1st January 1971 the Parliament will have to make provision for such remuneration in the Appropriation Act. The amendment leaves a period of time during which the remuneration can be determined by prescription. The Bill, as it left this chamber, provided that allowance for the statutory officers were to be allowances as the Minister determines'. The Senate has deleted those words and substituted in their place 'travelling or other allowances as are prescribed'. I explained the effect of similar amendments to the Australian Film Development Corporation Bill and I do not need to carry the explanation further. 
 In reply to the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  I agree with what he has said except thatI point out that it may not be desirable for the Parliament to have to make provision in respect of some part time officers who are receiving daily allowances. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Resolution reported; report adopted. 
 I move: 
That the amendments be agreed to. 
My remarks in relation to amendments to the Australian Film Development Corporation Bill and the Metric Conversion Bill apply to the amendments to this Bill. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Resolution reported; report adopted. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am advised by the Industrial Registrar that over the period from 1952 to 22nd May 1970 Full Benches of the Commonwealth Court of Conciliation and Arbitration (until 13th August 1956) and of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission (since 14th August 1956) have sat on 593 days to hear appeals from Conciliation Commissioners and from Commissioners. Over the same period, 742 sitting days were taken up with references. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Convention No. 3 - Maternity Protection, 19.19 applies only to women employed in public or private industrial or commercial undertakings. It provides that women shall not be permitted to work during the 6 weeks following confinement and that they shall have the right to leave from work during a period of 6 weeks prior to confinement. They are to be entitled to free attendance by a doctor or a certified midwife and to the payment of benefits sufficient for the adequate maintenance in hygienic conditions of mothers and children during the period of absence. The payments are to be provided either out of public funds or by means of a system of insurance. It also provides that mothers are to be allowed to nurse their children during working hours for halfhour periods twice a duy. 
In the light of its scope as defined above, the Convention would be applicable to a relatively small proportion of Commonwealth employees. 
Moreover, the Commonwealth Public Service Act enables female officers to be granted up to 20 weeks' leave after confinement. In these circumstances, and since the prevailing practices regarding nursing mothers engaging in employment in Aus.rtalia are different from the circumstances envisaged by the Convention, the need for providing for daily absences for the purpose mentioned has not arisen. 
Algeria, Argentina, Brazil, Bulgaria, Central African Republic, Chile, Colombia, Cuba, France, Gabon, Federal Republic of Germany, Greece, Republic of Guinea, Hungary, Italy, Ivory Coast, Luxembourg, Islamic Republic of Mauritania, Nicarague, Panama, Rumania, Spain, Upper Volta, Uruguay, Venezuela, Yugoslavia. 
There have been few ratifications of this Convention in recent years. 
Trade Unions: Actions in Tort (Question No. 845) 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 am advised that the answer to this part of the honourable member's question is 'yes'. 
1 am advised that the United Kingdom Royal Commission on Trade Unions and Employer's Associations 1965-1968 found that trade unions should have immunity from action for tort in respect of torts alleged to have been committed by or on behalf of a trade union iti contemplation or furtherance of a trade dispute. 
I am advised that the provision of the United Kingdom Trade Disputes Act 1906 conferring on trade unions immunity in respect of tortious acts has been reproduced in the Queensland Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Act and that there is nothing to suggest that a trade union registered under the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act could not rely on the provision in the Queensland Act if sued in that State. The Commonwealth Conciliation and 
Arbitration Act does not include a similar provision. Nor does the legislation of the Slates other than Queensland. 
The honourable member may rest assured that the Government is ever mindful of the importance of trade unions in the Commonwealth industrial relations system and will do all that is necessary for their protection as part of that system. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In answer to part (1) of question No. 710 I said: "The Public Service Board's appearance in this case arose out of it being a respondent to the matters before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission involving the Amalgamated Postal Workers Union and other unions.' 
I do not wish to add to that. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There are many factors contributing to the purchasing power of the nominal minimum wage for a standard working week', and the impact of each is widely diffused and frequently interrelated with other factors. Moreover, random occurrences, such as drought and international disturbances often affect economic progress. As a result, it becomes impossible to make a useful assessment of the impact of any particular factor such as technological change. 
The changes that have occurred in five of the six factors mentioned cannot be readily quantified because of lack of statistical data. The movements in the terms of trade are shown in the table below: 
1 showed the terms of the proposed amendment to  Mr Comans,  the Acting Parliamentary Draftsman. He is well known to all honourable members. Honourable members will remember that the Government accepted amendments to three Bills earlier today. They were the Australian Film Development Corporation Bill, the Metric Conversion Bill and the Export Payments Insurance Corporation Bill. The honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  said that he believed that this was a principle that ought to be accepted. In reply I said that there were a lot of things that the honourable member for Oxley had put forward with which T agreed. But on the other hand I thought it was necessary not to .accept as a general principle the proposal embodied in amendments because we could well have a situation where Parliament would be committed to minutiae. For example, some officers created under statute in fact may be paid only a sitting allowance on a day and how many days they sit may be a matter to be determined over the course of a year, having regard to the number of meetings necessary. Whether this is what the Senate would want or what this House would want is a matter to be considered. I have indicated that during the recess period, in consultation with the Draftsman, I will try to draw up a form which would be constant in all Bills. I envisage that there would be discussion about the proper form that should be used. In the meantime I said that we would accept these amendments and wc would carry out this process. 
Later on in the day the Senate had a Bill before it - I apologise for not being able to remember the name of the Bill - and a similar sort of amendment was put. The other place divided on the issue and the amendment failed. Some of the arguments put at that time were the type of argument which I had mentioned earlier in the day. Therefore, I think we must regard this proposal at this stage as not firm. It was not firm earlier in the day and I would not think it is firm now. 1 would think that what I said earlier was appropriate. The honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  asked specifically whether acceptance of the proposed amendment would mean there would be no pay. I discussed this with the Draftsman and he indicated to me that this was his belief. I then spoke to the honourable member for Dawson about it briefly, giving an outline of the situation. The honourable member indicated that under the circumstances he would not proceed with his amendment. If 1 may say so, I thought this was the proper course. I hope that over the recess we can have the matter properly considered and in consultation we might get a proper formula. 
Last Friday I did see a Press report of a resolution passed by the Metal Trades Industry Association. La:er I was asked to comment, but I declined to do so because the report seemed to be so much at odds with what I believed to be the view of the Metal Trades Industry Association as expressed to me personally by its President and its Acting President at a dinner a few days earlier. I refused to comment on the report until I had seen the text of the resolution. In the meantime a union officer who, I think, is termed the secretary of the Metal Trades Unions Association in Sydney had responded to the Press report. 
Well, he did respond to the report and he based the response upon what was said to be the contemporaneous statement made by the Metal Trades Industry Association. This matter came to notice within a day or two of the  President  of the Association going overseas and on Monday last the Acting  President, Mr Scotsford,  communicated with me and told me that he would later that day issue a Press statement in which it would be made clear that the resolutions first given publicity on the Friday had actually been passed in April - I think it was on 27th April. They were passed at a time prior to dispute settling procedures being finalised between working parties from the Australian Council of Trade Unions, the National Employers Policy Committee and the Government on 6th May. 
So on Monday last a Press statement was issued by the Metal Trades Industry Association stating that the resolution had been before the dispute settling procedures committee and that now the Association was very anxious to give the dispute settling procedures a full opportunity to be incorporated at all levels of industry and that the Association believed that the dispute settling procedures properly applied and observed by all parties would do what 1 have suggested they would do, that is, provide a medium of communication for conciliation and where necessary arbitration. Also, I believe they will bring about the possibility of a great deal more industrial peace than has been the case until now. Finally, I remind the honourable gentleman that last May the Government called for restraint by all parties while the discussions were proceeding. In fact, the Metal Trades Industry Association has exercised restraint for more than a year and is still exercising restraint. 1 must say that 1 am most appreciative of the Association's efforts, for without that restraint the dispute settling procedures could not, I am sure, have been brought to a conclusion. 
Of course the engineering profession is vital to the development of this country. There are in the community a wide range of professions, of contributing workers, skilled and unskilled, of management and technologists. The whole range of them is vital. I am not to be heard to say that any particular section of them is more important than the other, for everybody contributes according to his capacity and training. The overall problem is to lift the capacity of each individual through training and through encouragement. As to the major thrust of the question - that is, a suggestion implicit in it that the Government or 1 can intrude in the matter and force a higher rate of pay - there is no authority whatever for me or the Government to do so. As far as the employees in the Public Service are concerned, it is a matter for the Public Service Board as a statutory body, and I have never heard the Opposition suggest it should not continue. In regard to employees in the private sector, it is for the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission after negotiation with their own employers. A case went before the Commission, was argued over a period of time and a decision was given. My constant reply to the Association has been that it must seek improvement in the conditions for its members through the normal processes. I understand that the Association of Professional Engineers has lodged claims with the Public Service Board for increases and that dates have been fixed by the Public Service Board and the officers of the Association for further consideration of the claim by the two bodies. 
As I understand the Standing Orders, they require that Grievances be noted as Order of the Day No. 1 Government business, on each alternate Thursday of a sitting, and that is the reason why it appears on the daily programme. As to the point raised by the honourable member that no indication had been given that the Grievance debate would not be proceeded with, it was my understanding that everybody was aware that the debate would not proceed today. I had given instructions on my side of the House, and I understood that they had been relayed to the other side of the House, that in fact the Grievance debate would not proceed today. 

 Mr DALY (Grayndler) - by leave- In view of what the Minister has just said which more or less implies that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  who represents the Opposition in these matters, was aware that there would not be a Grievance debate today. I have asked a member of the Opposition to get the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in order that he might speak on this matter. It is complete news to me and to all honourable members on this side of the House. I suggest that if an arrangement was made we on this side should have been told about it. If no arrangement had been made I would assume that the debate would continue in the normal way. It is rather surprising for the Minister to move this motion now. Honourable members have given up a tremendous amount of their own time because they have in these sittings had to go on with so much Government legislation. A Grievance debate is one opportunity which honourable members on this side of the House have to put forward certain views. I suggest to the Minister that he withdraw the motion and permit the grievance debate to proceed. We have stayed in this chamber until very late at night dealing with Government legislation and the least that could be done is for the Minister to extend his courtesy to honourable members on this side. 
The honourable gentleman is a great evangelist on parliamentary matters- 
-I am not sure that 1 heard the commencement of the question. 
I know of no such study. 1 did see some reports of remarks made by a spokesman on behalf of the Australian Clothing Manufacturers Council but there is no study that I know of by the Department and that Council. What that Council is doing is inquiring into ways of attracting more women into the work force. My own Department does not have a study for the purpose of attracting women into the work force, lt realises the reality of the situation which is that for social reasons and because of community attitudes more women are going into the work force. 
There has been quite a remarkable growth in the number of women in the work force. In the 1960s that number grew from about 27% to about 33%. The number of married women in the work force doubled from 9% to 18%. My attitude and that of the Department through me is not to attract women into the work force but to recognise that women are going into the work force. Therefore we have to deal with the problems for them and for the community which are created by their entry into the work force. I wanted to make that clear. I dd not want the statement to go unanswered by me as though I acquiesced in it. I have made clear my own point of view. Women in rural areas constitute a very real problem in relation to decentralisation. They constitute a very real problem in leaving their homes in rural areas and going to the cit:es. For those who remain there is the real problem of finding employment. We are constantly looking at this matter, but I cannot promise any easy solution. 
by leave - The Government parties lake this opportunity to express their appreciation of the services that  Mr Meredith  has rendered during his period in the House. It is well appreciated that we rely upon the services that he provides constantly throughout the entire period that we are here. We hope that his retirement is a most enjoyable and rewarding period for him. 
 I declare that the following Bills are urgent Bills: 
States Receipts Duties (Administration) Bill, 
States Receipts Duty Bill (No. I), 
States Receipts Duty Bill (No. 2), 
States Receipts Duty Bill (No 3), and 
States Grants (Receipts Duty) Bill 
I understand that the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  wants to say something about the allotment of time. A copy of what 1 propose has already been given to him. It may be convenient if I hear what he has to say. 
 It is certainly a fact that I thought there would be the better part of 2 hours for this debate because I expected to move this motion at the end of question time. The formal business on the Notice Paper, particularly the matter relating to aircraft noise, ran away from us. I think it would have been abouta quarter-past11 by the time we got on to the interim report of the Select Committee on Aircraft Noise. It is now near enough to a quarter-to 12. Without removing the ground for protest that may have originally existed, I would be prepared, in relation to the specific issue now before the House, to alter the allotment of time by adding 30 minutes to the times which I originally proposed. In doing so. I would remind the honourable member for Melbourne Ports that if time is taken up debating the allotment of time this will only diminish the time that will be available to debate the Bills. 1 move: 
That the time allotted in connection with the Bills be as follows: 
States Receipts Duties (Administration) Bill - 
For the second reading, until 2.12 p.m this day 
For the remaining stages, until 2.14 p.m. this day 
States Receipts Duty Bill (No1)- For all stages of the Bill, until 2.18 p.m. this day 
States Receipts Duty Bill (No. 2)- For all stages of the Bill, until 2.22 p.m. this day 
States Receipts Duly Bill (No. 3)- For all stages of the Bill, until 2.26 p.m. this day 
States Grants (Receipts Duty) Bill- 
For the second reading, until 2.28 p.m. this day 
For the remaining stages, until 2.30 p.m. this day. 
We will still suspend for lunch at 1 p.m. and resume at 2 p.m. 
Yes. I think we are all in agreement that we want the debate to finish at 2.30. 
by leave - It is true, as the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  has said, that I did have a conference with the Secretary of the Federated Clerks Union and the Secretary of the Australian Council of Trade Unions on this issue. Following the discussions a paper was drawn up, which I will read. It will be of interest to honourable members in relation to this debate. I think that almost all honourable member; have received letters from people employed by ASIA expressing their concern about what will be their future when the provisions of this legislation are enacted. Most honourable members have sent those letters to me for my comments. 1 have not had an opportunity to sign replies to those letters yet. Replies have been prepared and they will be going out as soon as 1 can physically put my signature on them. In the meantime 1 will announce the terms of the statement. It states: 
There will bc no retrenchment of the ASIA's staff within the next 12 months except in those ports in which permanent employment is introduced in that period. 1 will establish a committee immediately to report to mc. The committee will consist of representatives of the Department of Labour artel National Service, the ASIA, the ACTU and the Federated Clerks Union. The committee will have the following functions: 
To identify as far as possible the future redundancy problem in the ASIA as its functions ami activities contract: lo consider and recommend what principles could apply in respect of any such redundancy situation, including the question of whether compensation might be paid to retrenched employees and, if so, the circumstances in which ir may be paid: it would also consider the provision of assistance to retrenched employees in finding suitable alternative employment as far as possible at the same salary level; 
To examine any individual problems of ASIA staff members who have to be retrenched as a result of permanent employment being introduced into particular ports during the next 12 months. 
1 wish to amend clause 6 by adding proposed new section 6c. (1 .) which reads: 
The Director shall be paid such remuneration and allowances as are prescribed. 
I have not given the Opposition notice of this amendment because 1 did not realise the necessity for it. The Committee will remember that a number of Bills went to the Senate in similar terms and that the Senate passed amendments requiring the remuneration to be provided by the Parliament and allowances prescribed. You will remember,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  that you moved an amendment to one of the Bills in .similar terms. At the time I indicated that the Government did not accept this as a principle but that over the recess we would be looking at the matter to see whether we could find a consistent formula. If this Bill stayed in its present form and the Senate were to amend it there would be no Bill. As the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  will know, the authority for the legislation expires on 30th June. Therefore it is essential in everybody's interest that the Bill goes through. 1 propose to move the amendment now, nol accepting the principle until we look at it over the recess but on the basis that we cannot risk the Bill not being passed. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendment; report - by leave - adopted. 
 The Acting Minister for Immigration has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The cost of members' fares to and from meetings of the Immigration Advisory Council are paid directly to the carriers by the Department of Immigration. Payments in respect of individuals cannot be isolated readily in the bulk periodic payments made to carrier companies. For this reason the fares given in the accompanying table as paid for members have been calculated on the basis of actual attendance at meetings and on the fares prevailing at the times when these were held. 
The Acting Minister for Immigration has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Because the Department is required to retain records of this kind for a period of six years only, figures are available from 1st January 1964. 
The Council meets twice each year. Its five Standing Committees meet as required for special projects. 
The total cost in fares, fees and expenses paid to members, officers and staff of the Immigration Advisory Council in each year since 1 January 1964 has been: 
 The Acting Minister for Immigration has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Pacific islanders seeking to travel to Australia for any purpose other than transit to another country are required to obtain visas or other forms of prior permission to do so, on the same basis as residents of other countries, as described in the concurrent answer to Question No. 1121. 
Government policy as announced in this House on 9th March 1966 permits consideration of applications for entry to Australia for residence by persons of non European descent, on the basis of their suitability as settlers, their ability to integrate readily and their possession of qualifications which are in fact positively useful to Australia. Since the 1950s the spouses, fiances, fiancees and close dependent relatives of residents of Australia have also been eligible to enter for residence. 
In order to facilitate travel and tourism persons seeking to travel to Australia as visitors are promptly granted permission to do so unless there is reason to doubt that a genuine visit is intended. 
Visa officers are expected to exercise care and discretion in such assessmentsto avoid numerous deportations of spurious visitors. However in the great majority of applications permission is granted quickly. 
It is understood that New Zealand's laws and procedures relating to Pacific islanders seeking to enter for residence or visits are essentially similar except that the peoples of the Cook Islands, Nine and Tokelau Islands are New Zealand citizens and are entitled to enter New Zealand. They have to satisfy certain conditions before being permitted to leave their islands. 
Entitlement for Entry to Australia from New Zealand (Question No.  1 121) 
The Acting Minister for Immigration has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Persons entitled to enter Australia are those who may not be regarded as immigrants in the legal sense because Australia is their home through prior residence. Residents of New Zealand do not as  such  have a legal entitlement to enter Australia. 
By administrative arrangements British subjects of European descent may in general come to Australia without prior permission - from New Zealand or elsewhere. These arrangements have long applied also to Maoris coming here from New Zealand. 
All other persons wherever resident are required to obtain visas  or other  forms of prior permission to travel to Australia, for residence or other purposes excepting transit through Australia to other countries. The rules as  to  eligibility for visas or other forms of prior permission to travel are the same for residents  of New  Zealand as for persons living elsewhere. 
Since 1920 British subjects travelling between New Zealand and Australia have not been required to present passports upon entryto either country. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is set out in the following schedule which has been provided by the Industrial Registrar: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Australia was not represented at the Session of the International Labour Conference at which Conventions No. 3 and No. 4 were adopted. 
The Australian Government delegates voted for the adoption of Conventions Nos. 41 and 89, and abstained on Convention No. 103. 
Many tributes have been paid and the quality of them has been quite remarkable. I had indicated that T wanted to add what might be described as an epilogue. It has already been referred to by the right honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Calwell)  and my colleague, the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr 
Whittorn), but it does manifest the energy of  Sir Wilfrid  Kent Hughes and his concern with public affairs right up to his death. Two days before bis death BDI Kent Hughes rang me and told me he wanted to go to Africa for the centenary celebrations of the arrival of Rhodes in South Africa. He would have needed leave for this purpose. I contacted the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  and after a favourable response I rang to tell  Sir Wilfrid  of this. To my great surprise I learnt that he had died just a few hours before. I mention it only because it does manifest the commitment that this man had  to matters  of public affairs. He intended to go on a world tour to meet so many people he knew for an up-dated appreciation of the world situation. He planned that just 2 days before his death. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) From 1st October 1960 to 30th June 1965; 
President- -$16,000 p.a. 
Deputy President- $14,000 p.a. 
From 3rd December 1959 to 31st October 1964: 
Senior Commissioner - $8800 p.a. 
Commissioner - $7,750 p.a. 
From 3rd December 1959 to 3 1st October 1964: 
Public Service Arbitrator- $11,800 p.a. 
(a) President- $24,000 pA + $1,500 (allowance). 
Deputy President- $22,000 p.a.  +  $1,000 (allowance). 
Senior Commissioner -$12,850 p.a. Commissioner - $11,850 p.a. 
Public Service Arbitrator- $19,500 p.a. + $1,000 (allowance). 
Taxation: Concessions to Foreign-owned Interests (Question No. 498) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am advised as follows: 
Yes. 
The High Court's judgment in the case to which the honourable member referred seems to have overcome the apparent fault in the system of registration of organisations under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act mentioned in the judgment. In this case the High Court decided that if an organisation has validly enlarged its eligibility conditions so as to represent a group extending beyond the particular industry in or in connexion with which it is registered, the fact that the description of the industry is not wide enough to cover the classes of employees who have become members of the organisation does not deprive the organisation of the capacity to represent and formulate industrial claims in the interests of that group. In the 13 years which have elapsed since the High Court's decision, the 'apparent fault' does not appear to have been a cause of concern to either employer or employee organisations. No representations have been made to my Department about it and my Department is not aware of any reason for disturbing the existing situation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Convention states that the working hours of persons employed in industrial undertakings (excluding supervisors and managers, etc.I should not exceed 48 per week,except in continuous processes which must he carried on without interruption in which case the Convention permits a weekly average of 56 hours. The Convention also provides for exceptions in cases of accident, force majeure, war or emergency, or in exceptional cases of pressure of work. 
In dealing with applications, although the Commission may inform itself in such a manner as it thinks just, it relies on the relevant material being placed before it by the parties. 
The information is not available to enable an answer to be given to this part of the question. 
Argentina, Belgium, Bulgaria, Burma, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Dominican Republic, Greece, Haiti, India, Iraq, Israel, Kuwait, Luxembourg, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Pakistan, Paraguay, Peru, Portugal, Rumania. Spain, Syrian Arab Republic, United Arab Republic, Uruguay and Venezuela Conditional ratifications have been registered for Austria, France and Italy. 
The Australian position regarding this Convention is set out in the Review of Australian Law and Practice relating to Conventions adopted by the Industrial Labour Conference of which the honourable member has a copy. 
The  answer  to  the honour able member's question  is as  follows: 
Yes.I would, however, draw his attention to the following comments on Convention No. 4 on the same subject contained in the Review of Australian Law and Practice Relating to Conventions Adopted by the International Labour Conference: 
In recent years there has been a change in attitude towards the adoption of measures restricting night work by women. The report of the I.L.O. on "Women Workers in a Changing World" in 1964 contended that the traditional measures adopted with  the  objective of protecting the health of women workers may now be discriminatory rather than protective. There is a growing body of opinionin industrialised countries that protective measures should be applied only to the specific categories of workers requiring protection. No evidence has been produced to show that night work is a health hazard to women or that it is more harmful to women than to men. 
No, but there are relevant provisions in awards of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission applicable in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. (3)I am advised by the Public Service Board that no restrictions are placed on Departments as to the selection of staff to work at night, though it is Board policy that no junior under 18 years of age be rostered for night shifts if this can be avoided. 
Algeria, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Burundi, Ceylon, Congo (Kinshasa), Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Dominican Republic, France, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Republic of Guinea, India, Iraq, Ireland, Italy, Kenya, Kuwait, Lebanon, Libya, Luxembourg, Malawi, Malta, Mauritania, Netherlands, New Zealand, Pakistan, Paraguay, Philippines, Portugal, Rumania, Rwanda, Senegal, South Africa, Spain, Switzerland, Syrian Arab Republic, Tunisia, United Arab Republic, Uruguay, Viet-Nam, Yugoslavia, Zambia. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am advised by the  President  of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission as follows: 
The question refers to 'Conciliation Commissioners', whereas since the establishment of the Commission in 1956 Commonwealth legislation has not provided for any officers with that title. In conformity with section 69 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act since 1956 the  President  has held conferences of 'members of the Commission' not less frequently than once each year. Thus  Deputy  Presidents and Commissioners are present but not Conciliators. 
No. This follows acceptance some years back of the opinion of the  President  that such matters should not be discussed. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am advised that all formal proceedings of the Public Service Arbitrator and his Deputies and of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission are recorded in the transcript which states the time of commencement and the time of adjournment of each sitting. This does not apply, however, to conferences in the Court Room, in Chambers and on site, and on o:her occasions at the wish of the part;es when it is not the practice to take transcripts or keep records of any kind. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have nothing to add to the reply I gave to part (1) of Question No. 218. 
The honourable member's attention is directed to sub-section 4 of section 5 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. 
The question of costs is one for the Court to determine. 
I am advised by my Department that, since 1950, section 5 has been used as follows: 
by allegedly dismissed employees on nine occasions; 
by unions on behalf of allegedly dismissed employees on nine occasions; 
by inspectors appointed pursuant to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act in relation to allegedly dismissed employees on two occasions; 
by employees, on grounds alleging injury in employment or alteration of position to the employee's prejudice, on three occasions; and 
by unions, on behalf of employees who were alleged to have been threatened with dismissal, on nine occasions. 
Of the nine cases under 4 (a), above, seven were dismissed and two withdrawn. Of the nine cases under 4 (b), above, convictions were recorded in five, one case was dismissed, two were withdrawn and one struck out. Of the two cases under 4 (c), above, (he defendant was convicted in one and one was withdrawn. Of the three cases under 4 (d). above, two were dismissed and one withdrawn. Of the nine cases under 4 (e). above, two cases were dismissed and seven withdrawn. 
On eight occasions on which the information was dismissed or withdrawn the Court awarded costs against informants; in four of these cases the informant was an employee and on four occasions the informant was a union. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Consultations are still proceeding with Commonwealth departments and authorities involved in letting contracts to identify more precisely the extent to which the contracts may not accord with the requirements of the Convention. 
Papua and New Guinea: International Labour Conventions (Question No. 929)  Mr Whitlam  asked the Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
Has his Department, since the publication last October by the previous Minister for Labour and National Service of the Review of Australian Law and Practice Relating to Conventions Adopted by the International Labour Conference, completed its reconsideration of (a) Convention No. 83 - Labour Standards (Non-Metropolitan Territories), 1947 and (b) Convention No. 86- Contracts of Employment (Indigenous Workers), 1947. 
Has his Department completed its review of Convention No. 1 10- Plantations, 1958 (Hansard, 26 August 1969, page 712). 
Has his Department re-examined (a) Convention No. 50 - Recruiting of Indigenous Workers, 1936, (b) Convention No. 64 - Contracts of Employment (Indigenous Workers), 1939 (c) Convention No. 82- Social Policy (Non-Metropolitan Territories), 1947 and (d) Convention No. IllDiscrimination (Employment and Occupation), 1958. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
During the recent hearing by the Coal Industry Tribunal of an application by Australian Iron and Steel Limited for an extension of multiple shift longwall mining operations a submission was advanced by the Miners Federation that there should be a reduction in weekly hours of work in mines where such operations are introduced. This submission was rejected by the Tribunal in a decision handed down in Sydney on 5th March, 1970. However, the Tribunal did decide, in granting the employers application, that an extra week of annual leave plus added remuneration should accrue to any employee in a mine working these multiple shifts. I am advised that the Combined Mining Unions and the mineowners are now to enter into private discussions on the question of shorter hours. 
Miners at the Kemira Colliery resumed normal work under pre-dispute conditions on 25th May as a part of overall arrangements to restore the industry to normal conditions as a prelude to private discussions between the parties on the question of reduced hours of work. It would appear that the reasons advanced for the strike at Kemira Colliery which halted production for 34 days were as the honourable member states. 
and (4) I am sure that the Coal Industry Tribunal was fully informed and took into account all relevant factors affecting the industry before reaching its decision on 5lh March. Decisions published over the past 10 years show that the Tribunal when it granted such benefits as long service leave of 13 weeks for 8 years' service, annual leave of 4 weeks, payment of bonuses when on annual leave, sick leave or public holidays and increased wages, took increased productivity of mine workers into account and has repeatedly said so. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am advised that most Commonwealth departments and instrumentalities record industrial accidents and occupational diseases on a uniform basis. The use made of these statistics is a matter for each department or instrumentality. 
Last night  Mr Speaker  presented to the Parliament a report from the Standing Orders Committee. After the presentation of that report I moved that the report be printed and I then moved the subsequent motion that the consideration of the report be made an order of the day for the next day of sitting; hence it appeared on the notice paper today. Honourable members will have seen that there are a number of items listed before it and will be aware that I have just moved for the deferment of those items so that this matter could come on. It is a matter which concerns every individual member of the Parliament. It affects him more specifically as an individual member than as a member of a party. For that reason, in the course of the discussions in the Standing Orders Committee, it was suggested that there should be a free vote on all matters contained in the report. I have been informed by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr 
Barnard) that the matter was considered in the Opposition caucus and that the caucus did agree to a free vote on all matters in the report. I have no doubt that it is also known to all honourable members that the joint Government parties met this morning and also agreed that there should be a free vote of every individual member of the House. So we approach this debate, which will be launched by the motion I am about to move, in the situation where each individual member will express his own views according to the way he sees the best operation of this Parliament for the passage of its business and its national duty. I move - 
That the Report of the Standing Orders Committee in its relation to the general matters of (a) sitting days, (b) a reduction in time limits for debates and speeches and (c) a reduction in the quorum of the House, be endorsed in principle and 
That Standing Orders 72 and 250 be amended as recommended by the Committee, such amendments to come into operation on Tuesday, 25 th August 1970. 
After this debate is concluded, I will put down a motion on sittings of the House which will be so framed as to allow discussion of times but not reopen the principle of the 4-day week on a 2-week sitting, 1- week off basis. I shall also present a motion to amend standing order 91, which relates to time limits for debates and speeches, not to reopen the principle of reduced time but to enable any particular speaking time to be discussed. I will say more about the issue of the quorum proposals in the report at a later stage. There is another matter in the report which relates to the sittings of the Parliament over the meal hours. 1 believe it will be necessary for much more investigation to be carried out before the House is in a position to consider the question of sittings continuing over meal times referred to in paragraph 5 of the report. When that investigation has been done I will circulate the information and then take the appropriate action for the Parliament to consider it. I would like to explain the reasons why I have put the motion in those terms. The report of the Standing Orders Committee deals with 5 matters. Three of them - the sitting days, the limitation of speech times, and the quorum - are matters on which I believe we ought to take a decision in principle. 
I will come to that. 
If the honourable member will listen 1 will explain very clearly what it is all about. 
Does the honourable member want a copy of the motion 1 moved? 
I will circulate the motion. 1 am now explaining the procedure. 1 am informed by the  Clerk  that the motion is on the way and as soon as it comes it will be circulated. If honourable gentlemen will contain themselves and allow me to explain it while we are waiting for the motion to be circulated, 1 will do so. There are 3 matters which I think should be dealt with on an issue of principle. These are the sitting days, the reduction in time limits for speeches and the question of the quorum of the House. The reason why I propose it in this way is that the Standing Orders Committee has recommended a 4-day week, 2 weeks following, and then a week of recess. In the course of making that recommendation it also recommended the actual sitting hours. I am sure that honourable members will have the report in front of them. If they look at it they will find the times set out in the report. It proposes that the commencement of a day's sitting shall be at 10 a.m. on certain days and at 2 p.m. on other days. It may be that some of the honourable gentlemen in the House would feel that 10 a.m. was not the appropriate hour or that 2 p.m. was not the appropriate hour. There may be some very real discussion as to whether or not that is an appropriate commencing time. 
But I think the first thing we need to do is to look at the principle of a 4-day week for 2 weeks with a week's recess. That is the reason why the motion is moved in the terms in which it is, to endorse the principle of what I might term a 3-week cycle instead of a 4-week cycle. At the present time we have a 4-week cycle of 3 sitting weeks and a week's recess. Each of the sitting weeks is normally of 3 days. What is proposed by the Standing Orders Committee is a substitution of a 3-week cycle for the 4-week cycle, that is, a 2-week sitting of 4 days instead of 3 and then the week's recess. It is important in my view to look at the matter as an issue of principle so that honourable members can express themselves on this principle. Having expressed themselves on the principle, if there is a majority of the House in favour of it, then it will be necessary to put a specific motion as to the sitting hours so that honourable members can express their attitudes to the particular hours. That is the reason why I am adopting this procedure in relation to sitting times. As to the limitation of times for speeches, generally the Committee has recommended a reduction of time. 
We have an illustration of the response: One honourable member says: 'Shame', and another honourable member says: 'That is good'. The purpose of the debate is to express an attitude to the House on the principle of reduced speaking time. Then we can look at a specific motion which deals with the matter as the Standing Orders Committee has dealt with it for the various categories of debates, and there will then be opportunity for individual members who may agree with (he principle but have some objection to a particular debate being shortened to express that view. The second part of the motion deals with 2 matters which are quite important in their own way but are not of the same category of interest to honourable members. Therefore my motion proposes that the recommendations for the amendment of those 2 standing orders be adopted now to have effect from next Tuesday, 25th August. As I run through the report to give it a brief description I will come to those in detail. 
The report of the Standing Orders Committee records the decisions and recommendations of that Committee arising from its meetings on 11th May and 1st June 1970. I should point out to honourable members that although the Standing Orders Committee met on those 2 days- 
The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
1 am advised that no such claim has been filed with the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. 
and (3) This is a matter for determination in accordance with the provisions of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. The nature of arrangements that might be made, including consultations between the parties, would depend on the terms of the decision of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am advised that the Waterside Workers' Federation has drawn the attention of the Federal Advisory Committee on Waterfront Accident Prevention to the fact that waterside workers on occasions handle asbestos. In accordance with a long-standing arrangement, the matter was referred for consideration to the Occupational Health Committee of the National Health and Medical Research Council, and the Occupational Health Section of the School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine. 
Advice from the School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine is that workers exposed to airborne asbestos fibres can be exposed to the risk of developing pneumoconiosis (asbestosis), and the danger of lung cancer. The degree of health hazard depends upon the severity and duration of exposure to asbestos and the protective methods adopted. 
Presumably the study referred to by the honourable member is that conducted in 1965 by 
Selikoff, Churg and Hammond into the occurrence of asbestosis among insulation workers in the New York-New Jersey metropolitan area. This study is known to officers of my Department and the medical authorities to which I have referred. 
The Occupational Health Committee of the National Health and Medical Research Council is continuing its research on this problem with a view to recommending a hygiene standard and encouraging the development of the most effective methods both for the prevention and control of dangerous exposure to airborne asbestos fibres in the work environment. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In a press statement on 20th March 1970, concerning the five day national stoppage in the stevedoring industry I set out in considerable detail the main factors which caused the stoppage. I also stated that competition in militancy between communist factions was an additional factor in the dispute. 
and (3) Yes. 
While I have no doubt that the honourable member is well aware of the way, I believe that further canvassing of issues relating to that stevedoring stoppage can only prejudice industrial peace in the industry in the light of the agreement which has recently been reached. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
and (3) I refer the honourable member to the statement ) made concerning the retrenchment of A.S.I.A. staff during (he course of the debate on the Stevedoring Industry (Temporary Provisions) Bill 1970. ('Hansard' June 12th 1970, pages 3499 and 3500). 
Arrangements have been made for redundancy situations affecting waterside workers. The details of these arrangements are contained in the Stevedoring Industry (Temporary Provisions) Regulations. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Stevedoring Industry (Temporary Provisions) Act, 1970, which was passed during the last sessional period of the Parliament extends the operation of the legislation until 30th June 1972. (2). (3) and (4) 1 refer the honourable member to the statement 1 made concerning the retrenchment of A.S.I.A. staff during the course of the debate on the Stevedoring Industry (Temporary Provisions) Bill. ('Hansard' 12th June 1970, pages 3499 and 3500.) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) In bis report for the year ended 13th August 1969 the  President  of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission said the following: 
. . for 4 months of the current year and some months of the period covered by last year's Report the Commission had to struggle on with 3 Deputy Presidents on active duty instead of 5. Thecontinued hearing of the Professional Engineers cases before 2 full benches of the Commission . . . and the fall in the number of active Deputy Presidents continued to cause delays in some full bench hearings. Since the new appointments, however, the full bench list has gradually been restored to normal." 
I am advised by the Attorney-General that the answer tothis part of the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Government regards the office of Deputy President of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission as an important and responsible position. Appointments are made as soon as practicable.' 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2) and (3) As to part (1) (a),I am advised that the judgment in the case. Short versus Wellings and Others, indicates that in proceedings for the performance and observance of the rules of an organisation the Commonwealth Industrial Court can restrain conduct which conflicts with the policy of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, in particular, conduct to which the honourable member referred even though a specific rule of the organisation does not prohibit such conduct. As to part (1)(b), conduct which conflicts with section 171 (3.) of the Act can be enjoined by the' Court under section 109 (1) (b) of the Act 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In his Thirteenth Annual Report for the year ended 13th August 1969 the  President  of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission said: 'In my view we need at least four conciliators and it is urgently necessary to bring the present number to that figure by another appointment'. The current number of conciliators is four. 
 I read in the Press that a nation wide strike has been proposed for next week in protest against the Budget. A report of the resolution which was passed by the ACTU has been made available to me. There seems to be an extraordinary difference of opinion on it. The resolution of the Executive of the ACTU called for combined protest rallies of the workers and pensioners of Australia. It then called upon certain organisations to do all that they could to ensure that their members would be present at the protest rallies, lt has been suggested that the protest rallies will be held between 12 noon and 3 p.m. Two possibilities emerge from this proposal. One is that the people could go along to a protest rally in their lunch hour if they are workers or in their free time if they are pensioners and protest. If they were to do that they would be exercising a democratic right and no issue could be really raised. But it is perfectly obvious that leading officials of the ACTU Executive have allowed it to be thought, and by allowing it to be thought they have given encouragement, that the call is for strike action throughout the entire 3 hours with the possibility of extending it beyond that period. 
I cannot recall a national strike since a Labor government sent troops onto the coalfields. No more irresponsible action could be taken by the ACTU Executive than to call a national strike. The ACTU Executive is composed of men many of whom I have thought to be responsible trade unionists who were interested in the future of Australia. I think that is why the resolution was couched in terms which called for protest rallies. Certain other people have taken advantage of the situation to convert the call for a protest rally into a demand for a national stoppage. I expect that the responsible men on the ACTU Executive will make perfectly clear what they want, because I am sure they recognise that if there is to be a strike the basis of the strike will be that workmen are complaining about costs or something of that kind. All that can result from the strike is the loss of their own wages while they are on strike. The community will lose the production of goods and services. That will add to the cost pressures and the inflationary pressures which the Budget is directed against. To exacerbate pressures which the economic thrust of trie Budget seeks to overcome seems an odd way to proceed. 
T can only regard the stoppage as a display of want of confidence in the Opposition. The Opposition is going to oppose the Budget, but the trade union movement has decided that the Opposition is incapable of offering effective opposition and has decided to do so itself by taking direct strike action. Before it can develop into a national strike, action will have to be taken by individuals at a personal level and by trade union leaders in individual trade unions. Decisions have yet to be taken for it to be translated into a national stoppage. Now is the time for responsible people to intervene and to prevent that from occurring. If a national stoppage occurs, it will start a bad trend of strikes for sheer political motives. How does an employer react when a trade union organiser puts a claim that there will be a stoppage unless the Government does something or unless the Government changes its Budget? An individual employer is powerless to respond. That would be a straight out political strike. We have just seen a stoppage by one union because of confused claims as to what happened to a man in Greece. As a result of that the community of Australia was subjected to the wtihdrawal of services and the added costs for a sheer political motive. The worst thing that can happen to this country is for the control of the country to be put onto the streets or into the factory yards. We elect members of parliament and have the parliamentary institution to allow us to pursue our political aims here. This is the forum for it and this is where it ought to occur. 
 Mr Speaker,  curiously enough- 
I thought that that was by leave. I now ask for leave. 
Curiously enough, one would not expect to find politics in this place, but I think it must be said that politics are being played here. I must remind the House that under the Standing Orders the time available to debate the motion proposed by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  expired at 12.30 p.m. Because petitions took about 20 minutes this morning I agreed to extend the time for the discussion of the honourable gentleman's motion by 15 minutes, that is, until 12.45 p.m. It was then brought to my attention that the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  proposed to make his maiden speech on this issue. I was asked whether 1 would agree to extend the time for general business beyond the lunch hour to enable him to do so. 1 agreed todo that. It was not to be expected that, when I agreed to such a process, the Leader of the Opposition would take advantage of the gesture made to the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory by trying to pursue the political course that he has pursued. 
Does the Leader of the Opposition mean by seconding his motion? 
-It is well known that the practice of the House is to alternate speakers from side to side. 
Quite; but not having done that, in accordance with the practice of alternating the speakers from side to side, the Minister spoke and now we are left with the situation where the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory does want to speak. That is the purpose of my motion. I will be frank and say that hadI thought the Leader of the Opposition was going to take advantage of my doing that in order to continue the debate and take a political point, I would have been reluctant to extend the privilege to the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory. 1 have done so and I do not resile from it. 
As my colleague, the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Nixon)  has pointed out, the attitude of the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  is well known. It has been made clear. The honourable member for the Northern Territory, upon being consulted, indicated that he recognised that there was business of the House to be dealt with  -  not only Government business but also general parliamentary business. The honourable member has indicated that his views are very well known, and this was made known by my colleague, the Minister for the Interior. In reply to the honourable memberfor Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  I would say that honourable members know the quality of the honourable member for the Northern Territory. We do not need to sit here with bated breath and listen to him this afternoon. The person whose quality has yet to be assessed is the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory. It is traditional in this place to give as much consideration as is possible to an honourable member who is making his maiden speech. That is the purpose of my motion. The Government opposes the amendment, recognising it for what it is - a departure from the traditions of this House in showing courtesy to a new member. 

 Mr WHITLAM (Werriwa- Leader of the Opposition) - I have been misrepresented by the Minister. I ask for leave to make a personal explanation. 
There has been some discourtesy ; about the whole of the approach of the Labor Party to this Bill in not allowing  a  Government speaker to follow the Leader of the Opposition, who introduced the measure. The Opposition had  2  speakers in a row, which is a most unusual course and one which is not usually followed by the Government when introducing measures. 
In the light of those remarks, this time I was scrupulous to observe the Minister's sensibilities and let him follow me. I stated that my motion would be seconded by the  speaker  who followed the Minister: 
Motion (by  Mr Nixon)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed  to  be added  (Mr Whitlam's  amendment) be so added. 
I move: 
That, unless otherwise ordered, the House shall meet for the despatch of business, in addition to the days fixed by standing order 40, on each Friday at half-past ten o'clock a.m. commencing on Friday, 21st August, and continuing until the end of this year. 
I should make it clear that I wrote a letter to honourable members on the Opposition side of the House and to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  about sitting times for this session. I indicated that we should sit for 6 weeks on the old basis of 3 weeks on, 1 week off, and that we should continue in that way until the week's recess in early October. Obviously I could not anticipate that the House would agree to the change that the Standing Orders Committee has recommended, so I had to programme for a 3 weeks sitting and 1 week's recess. That could have allowed me to programme for 2 weeks on and a week's recess if the House did adopt the change, as in fact it did. But I had a problem about that because there is a requirement for us to be in recess for that week so that the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association may hold a conference. It will be using this chamber. So if I changed the arrangement from 3 weeks sitting and I week's recess to a 2 weeks sitting and 1 week's recess, we would have to have a recess of 2 weeks instead of 1 week because we have to be in recess for that second week when the CPA meets. Therefore I programmed for 2 periods of 3 weeks with a week's recess, but after that the will of the House which was expressed last night shall operate. 
I move: 
That a Joint Select Committee be appointed to inquire into and report upon the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits legislation in relation to - 
its aims and objectives; 
the complexities of the legislation and any means by which the legislation might be simplified and improved; 
the rates of contribution by members; 
any differences, as between members, in the benefits provided; 
any anomalies and inequities that might  exist; 
the frequency of and delays in actuarial investigations on the state and sufficiency of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund, and 
administration of the Fund. 
That the committee consist of three Members of the House of Representatives to be appointed by the Prime Minister, two Members of the House of Representatives to be appointed by the Leader of the Opposition in the House of Representatives, one  Senator to  be appointed by the Leader of the Government in the Senate, one  Senator to  be appointed by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate and one  Senator to  be appointed by the Leader of the Democratic Labor Party in the Senate. 
That every appointment of a member of the committee be forthwith notified in writing to the  President  of the Senate and the  Speaker  of the House of Representatives. 
That the  Chairman  be nominated by the Prime Minister from one of the members to be appointed by bim. 
That the  Chairman  of the committee may from time to time appoint another member of the committee to be  Deputy Chairman,  and that the member so appointed act as  Chairman  of the committee at any time when the  Chairman  is not present at a meeting of the committee. 
That the committee have potter to appoint sub-committees consisting of three or more of its members, and to refer to any such sub-committee any matter which the committee is empowered to examine. 
That the committee or any sub-committee have power to send for persons, papers and records, to move from place to place, and to sit during any recess or adjournment of the Parliament and duringthe sittings of either House of the Parliament. 
That the committee have leave to report from time to time and that any member of the committee have power to add a protest or dissent to any report. 
That three members of the committee, includingthe  Chairman  or  Deputy Chairman,  constitute a quorum of the committee, and two members of a sub-committee constitute a quorum of the sub-committee. 
That the  Chairman  or the  Deputy Chairman  presiding at a meeting have a deliberative vote and, in the event of an equality of voting, also have a casting vote. 
That the committee report to the Parliament as soon as possible. 
That (he foregoing provisions of this resolution, so far as they are inconsistent with the standing orders, have effect notwithstanding anything contained in the standing orders. 
That a message be sent to the Senate acquainting it of this resolution : md requesting that it concur and take action accordingly. 
I should remind the House of how this matter arose. On 9th June the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Bill was before  the  House. At that time an amendment was moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard).  To put into perspective why this select committee is being set up, I will quote from the speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  as reported in Hansard at that time. He said: 
I turn now to the amendment that was moved by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition. The Government does see a great deal of virtue in having a thorough inquiry into the DFRB legislation. However, we do find  it  difficult to accept  . . the amendment in its  present  form which, if carried . . . 
The Treasurer went on to say that he would agree to the appointment of a select committee and that after the necessary preliminary discussions had taken place the Leader of the House would introduce a motion guided by the conversations. There  have been conversations not only with the Opposition but also with the Senate, and the Senate has agreed to the appointment of a select committee. We know that this resolution provides that the membership be shared by both sides of this House and tha 3 sides of the Senate. 
 Mr Speaker,  I see the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  rising to ask for an explanation. I will offer an explanation immediately. I have asked that the debate be adjourned so that I may move the adjournment of the House. I propose tomorrow to relist this matter so that the honourable member for Wills may move the motion that he has circulated. No doubt he will wish to speak to it. I now indicate to the House that after he has moved his motion and spoken to it, I will move that the debate be adjourned. 
I can make no statement as to when it will come on because I have not worked out the programme as to when it will come on. But it is a matter of major importance. Obviously it cannot come on again until all honourable members have had an opportunity to consider the implications of it. I would expect that it would be necessary to have a further report from the Standing Orders Committee as to standing committees because it is out of the report of the Standing Orders Committee that it becomes in order for the honourable gentleman to move his motion. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
There has been some extraordinary confusion in the trade union movement, in the Press and among the public as to what was called for. Apparently there was a call by the ACTU Interstate Executive for protest rallies in combination with pensioners. In some way which has noi yet been able to be identified, this was allowed to be thought to be a call for a national strike. There has been confusion among unions, among union leaders and as between the industrial wing of the Labor movement and the political wing of the Labor movement. There has, I believe, been very real conflict between leaders of the trade union movement. This in itself is a pity. One of the interesting things about this and something which I have not yet able to determine is the role of the leader of the Opposition. I do not know whether he was a leader of the call for the strike rallies or whether he was a follower. No doubt in his own good time he will make that clear. I. presume that he will wait until he knows the outcome of today's events before declaring himself. 
There are in Australia more than 4,000,000 wage and salary earners. Slightly fewer than 2,000,000 workers are affiliated to the Australian Council of Trade Unions, the Australian Council of 
Salaried and Professional Associations and the Public Service unions. The numbers at the rallies that have been held in the capita] cities today have, as reported to me, amounted to several thousands. This is about 0.5% of salary and wage earners in Australia. Powerful speeches have been made by a number of people. As they have made their powerful speeches they have looked out over a great many people and have no doubt misled themselves into the belief that this has been a powerful protest, very solidly supported. The facts suggest the reverse. It was not a powerful protest and it was not strongly supported. I think it can be categorised only as a triumph for common sense among the Australian people over the irresponsibility of the call that was made to them. 
The industrial climate at the moment cannot be separated from the economic situation of the moment. The economic situation of the moment is, I believe, an excess of total aggregate demand over total aggregate supply. In these circumstances a great number of people feel that they can make demands. Having made a demand, if it is not granted they believe they can enforce it by strike action. Very often we hear the term used that people would prefer direct negotiation to arbitration. I think direct negotiation is a good thing. But when direct negotiation ceases to be direct negotiation and becomes direct demand which, if not granted, results in direct action by way of strike, then a very serious situation emerges and there is a great deal of lost time through industrial disputes. 
To make the matter worse there is, I believe - and I am quite sure my belief is accurate - a competition in militancy that emerges in these circumstances. When a claim is granted as a result of use of direct action there is a competition in militancy in other areas to make bigger demands and not be prepared to negotiate them. If the demand is not met, direct action is made as effective as possible to achieve the demand. What comes out of all this is a very melancholy fact: It is the very affluence of our society and our economy which leads to the circumstances in which demands are made and enforced in the way they are. What we need to do in Australia is to come to terms with the fact that we have had full employment for 2 decades. All political parties are committed to the maintenance of full employment. What we need to do is to live in a state of full employment without having recourse to strike action on the scale that it is in Australia today because that erodes the very wealth that brings about the circumstances. My advice to unionists is to attend their union meetings, take responsible decisions and not to allow trade union leaders to use their position of power and influence to further their own political aims instead of the industrial aims of the members of the union. 
1 do not know the time at which the Leader of the Opposition said there were to be rallies. I believe I know the time at which the Interstate Executive of the Australian Council of Trade Unions passed its resolution. 1 believe that to be in the late afternoon. 1 believe that the decision was announced after the adjournment of the meeting of the Interstate Executive, at about 6 o'clock. I will not pursue the answer any further because at this point of time the Leader of the Opposition, who is the one person who does know the answer to the question, has not indicated to me what the position is. Therefore I will not make the assumption and will leave it to the Leader of the Opposition to clarify it - perhaps by interjection now. 
T regret that J cannot give an answer related specifically to the position at Port Augusta. However, I can inform the House that authority to strengthen the staff of the Department has recently been given. The Department is now in the process of recruiting officers who will be assigned to the task of assisting to place Aboriginals in employment. I will make inquiries about the officers to go to Port Augusta and when they are expected to take up duties there and will inform the honourable gentleman accordingly. 
I move: 
That until the end of the year, at eleven o'clock p.m. on each Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday and at four o'clock p.m. on Friday tha  Speaker  shall propose the question - That the House do now adjourn - which question shall be open to debate; if the House be in committee at that hour, the  Chairman  shall report progress and upon such report being made the  Speaker  shall forthwith propose the question - That the House do now adjourn - which question shall be open to debate. 
Provided that: 
if a division be in progress at the time of interruption such division shall be completed and the result announced. 
if, on the question - That the House do now adjourn - being proposed, a Minister requires the question to be put forthwith without debate, the  Speaker  shall forthwith put the question. 
nothing in this order shall operate to prevent a motion for the adjournment of the House being moved by a Minister at an earlier hour, 
any business under discussion and not disposed of at the time of the adjournment shall be set down on the Notice Paper for the next sitting, and 
if the question - That the House do now adjourn - is negatived, the House shall resume the proceedings at the point at which they had been interrupted. 
I ask leave of the House to amend my motion by (a) inserting after 'That' where first occurring the words 'unless the House otherwise orders' and (b) by adding the following further proviso: 'Provided further that, if at 12 o'clock midnight, the question before the House is - That the House do now adjourn - the  Speaker  shall forthwith adjourn the House until the time of its next meeting'.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  the motion, other than the proviso which I have now moved, is the same as that adopted on 16th April last for the remainder of the autumn sittings. If my motion is accepted by the House it will apply until the end of this year. I have inserted the first amendment, 'unless the House otherwise orders', because when the times for the changed days of sittings are determined - and those changed days will operate after 12th October if my recollection is right - we will have to make an appropriate motion to discharge this order. If the amendment is adopted the motion will include the words 'unless otherwise ordered', and therefore, we will proceed as we did in the last session. 
Let me quickly recapitulate what is involved. At 11 o'clock the  Speaker  will propose the question 'That the House do now adjourn*. A Minister has the right to request 'That the question be put forthwith'. If the request is made the question has to be put forthwith. The Government therefore retains the power to go on with Government business after 11 p.m. If the Government goes on with Government business after 11 p.m. the adjournment of the House will be by motion from the Minister at the table That the House do now adjourn'. If the motion is not negatived at 11 o'clock then the question 'That the House do now adjourn' is open for debate. The new proviso will mean that when midnight comes the  Speaker  will immediately put the question and adjourn the House until the time for the next day of sitting. When the motion for changed sitting times was brought in last session the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  stated  -  1 do not think he actually moved a motion - that he would prefer the question to be put at 10.30 p.m. 1 adhered to 1 1 p.m. and my motion on this occasion is for 11 p.m. 
I have had an opportunity to discuss this matter with the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and he has indicated to me that he accepts the 12 midnight shutdown but that he would have preferred a 10.30 p.m. end for Government business. I insisted that Government business should continue until 1.1 p.m. in order to allow more matters to be processed. However, I do not think that we are really very far apart on this issue. I will leave my remarks at this point,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  However, I indicate to you that after the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition has spoken 1 shall ask for leave to speak again if he has raised questions which I want to .answer. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. The correct course of action would be for an appropriate union to institute proceedings before the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission claiming conditions of the kind envisaged by the honourable member. 
Man-made Fibres: Tariff Protection  (Question No. 1082) 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) Commonwealth Arbitration Inspectors detected the following number of breaches of Federal awards during the period 1960/1969: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Fifty-fourth 0197O) Session of the International Labour Conference adopted two Conventions and two Recommendations, viz. - 
Convention (No. 131) and Recommendation (No. 135)  -  Minimum Wage Fixing 
Convention (No. 132)  -  Annual Holidays with Pay (Revised) 
Recommendation (No. 136)  -  Special Youth Schemes. 
The Australian Government delegates supported the adoption of all. four instruments. 
in reply - I regret that the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  has. in seeking an explanation, implied that action may have been taken against the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham)  or anything of this nature. There is absolutely no basis for any such suggestion. I do not think that the honourable member for Hughes should have allowed what he had to say to have the implication it did. The fact of the matter is that the honourable member for North Sydney also serves on the Parliamentary Standing Committee of Public Accounts and he has found that his time is fully occupied serving on that committee as anybody who serves on it will know. 
The members of Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works probably will disagree with the honourable member. There is no doubt that both committees perform a very valuable function and that the honourable members who serve on them are fully occupied. The situation is that the honourable member for North Sydney would like to be free of the responsibility of serving on  2  committees, especially as fits duties as Chairman  of the one from which he is now to be discharged are onerous. We have the good fortune to have in the honourable member for Ballaarat  (Mr Erwin)  a man who was  Chairman  of the former Standing Committee on Printing and of the Joint Select Committee on Parliamentary and Government Publications. All honourable members will recall that he performed a very fine job in those capacities. He was also responsible for the introduction of a uniform printing style manual throughout the Commonwealth. Indeed, the committees were responsible for many achievements under the chairmanship of the honourable member for Ballaarat, who will replace the honourable member for North Sydney on the Publications Committee. Because it has the advantage of having such a man who is willing to serve on the Publications Committee, I think the House should take the opportunity forthwith of making arrangements for his appointment to it. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I move: 
That in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969 leave be granted to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works to meet during the sitting of the House on Friday, 4th September 1970. 
The honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly),  who is  Chairman  of the Committee, has indicated to me that the Committee's work volume is such that the Committee considers that it needs to sit on Friday, 4th September.I feel sure that the House will agree to the motion so that the Committee may discharge its duties. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Employment and productivity  aTe  part of the dynamics of every modern society. The impact of economic policy upon employment and productivity is matched by the mirror impact those factors have on economic policy. They can no more be separated than can the worker be separated from the community of which he is' part. The advancement of one is the advancement of the other. Australia's economic performance over tha last 20 years and particularly over the last 5 years has been good. We do not need statistics to show the gains we have made. We can sense progress. We live with it. But, because complacency is the enemy of progress, I will concentrate today on the special problems of our full employment economy - inflationary pressure, industrial unrest, and structural imbalance - and on the ways in which my Department is trying to relieve these problems. 
The 1970-71 Budget is, I believe, well shaped to our economic requirements. Last year there was a net increase of 10.7% in Government domestic outlay, with insignificant increases in tax rates. This year's Budget also provides for an increase of some 11% in domestic outlay, while the new tax measures introduced will largely offset each other in their effects on economic activity, taking the year as a whole. The surplus of domestic receipts over domestic expenditure proposed for 1970-71 is roughly the same as last year's. In my view, this indicates that the economic impact of this year's Budget will be of the same order of magnitude as last year's Budget. At this time last year we had about 1% of the labour force unemployed. Today we again have 1% unemployed and productive capacity is likely to grow in the year ahead at about the same rate as last year. However, there is one important difference: Labour demand pressures have recently been tending to ease, whereas at the same time last year they were tending to increase. It follows that whilst this year's Budget will have roughly the same impact on the economy as the last one, I am confident the Budget is a sound and responsible one and will ensure vigorous and balanced growth. 
Our record in recent years justifies confidence. Over 5 of the past 7 years we have been able to. maintain a rate of economic growth of  5% or  better: the only 2 years when we failed to do this - 1965-66 and 1967-68 - were years of severe drought. Over this same period, the proportion of the labour force registered as unemployed has averaged 1.2% and has never moved outside the range of about 1% to 1.5% - seasonal influences apart. In spite of this high rate of growth and low rate of unemployment, our international reserves have held steady - thanks partly to our great mineral discoveries which have generated exports, import replacement and capital inflow and partly to the growing competitiveness, export orientation and self-confidence of our manufacturing industry. Unfortunately we have not solved all our economic problems. One might say: Which country has?' Inflationary pressures are still with us. Over the decade 1959-60 to 1969-70 the consumer price index rose at an annual rate of nearly  2i%.  Over the last 5 years the average annual increase has been a little over 3%. Last year the increase was nearly 4%. And in the June quarter of 1970 it was at an annual rate in excess of 5%. 
It is true that prices have risen even faster in many other countries, but whereas the inflationary rate is tending to slow down overseas it is tending to rise in Australia. When these pressures are running high you need high interest rates to induce people to save and lend. Nobody likes high interest rates expecially not the man who is buying a home or who is relying on consumer credit. But if we want moderate interest rates we must first arrest the rate of increase of inflation. This is what our economic policy aims to do. Many factors have operated to raise domestic prices. Some of these are independent of the level of demand: for example award wages have tended to rise faster than productivity. But there is no doubt that excess demand contributed in a major degree to last year's inflationary growth. To begin with, shortages of labour in many areas of the economy caused overtime work to increase and put pressure on over-award payments, both of which add to cost structure. 
The buoyant state of demand for goods and services may also have contributed in other ways. Faced with a sellers' market, some firms discover a facility to more readily pass on cost increases to their customers without concern for efficiency, and some firms take advantage of the situation to improve their profit margins. Of course, demand pressures in 1969-70 were not evenly distributed in terms of location, occupation, skills and industries. Had they been more evenly distributed pressures would have been less severe. In other words, the structural imbalance in the labour market was a contributing factor in the inflationary trend. I am confident that the Budget will work towards internal balance. There is however a limit to what generalised monetary and fiscal policies can do to achieve balanced economic growth. Such policies operate mainly by influencing aggregate demand. Beyond a point we cannot increase real production to match demand and reduce unemployment of the 1% registered by means of increases in aggregate demand for goods. This would only intensify competition for labour, diminish concern for efficiency and raise costs, prices and imports. Monetary and fiscal policies must therefore be complemented by action which will contain cost-push inflation, improve the structural balance in the labour market, and increase the effectiveness with which resources are used. 
There is a clear trend for wages to rise a great deal faster than productivity. The Commonwealth intervenes regularly in national wage cases to emphasise that the growth in real wages cannot in any permanent sense exceed the underlying growth in productive capacity and that to push up money wages beyond capacity yields no lasting gain in real wages but only causes inflation. It is not sufficient that this argument be accepted by the Arbitration Commission alone. It needs also to be accepted by employers and unions alike. Employers must realise that to bow to naked force and accede to wage increases in excess of productivity, simply because it is easy for them to raise prices, is not in the best interests of the community. Unions must understand that the exploitation of full employment to make unreasonable demands on employers is self-defeating in the long run. 
There is, however, another facet to the problem of wage-push inflation. If wage rates are rising faster than productivity, the answer is not simply to restrain the growth of money wages: it is equally important to look for ways of increasing the growth of productivity. The statistical gatherers say that over the last 15 years or so, the gross national product at constant prices per employed worker, which is the conventional measure of national productivity, increased at an average annual rate of about 2i% in Australia. The same statistical gatherers say that over the period 1950 to 1968, the gross national product per employed worker increased by over 3% per annum in Sweden, Norway, Netherlands and Denmark; bv over 4% per annum in France and Germany; and by over 5% per annum in Italy and Japan. International comparisons of this sort can be very misleading, but the evidence cannot be completely discounted. 
It is true that in Australia in recent years the growth in productivity and living standards has tended to pick up momentum. This is due mainly, I think, to structural changes in the economy arising from the dramatic growth in our mineral industries, and to the change in orientation of our manufacturing industries. There are some reasons why one might have expected productivity to grow faster in Australia than in other countries. For example, our smaller size should have given us relatively greater scope for achieving economies of scale; we have been largely successful in avoiding severe economic fluctuations with bouts of excess capacity; and our rate of investment has been very high by world standards. In the 5 years ended 1967-68, for example, fixed capital formation in Australia represented 26% of the gross national product at market prices. Of all the major industrialised countries, only Japan had a higher ratio. 
It is true that we have one of the fastest rates of population growth in the world. This requires heavy investment in social overhead capital - housing, services, roads, schools and hospitals - although it is often overlooked that immigration also increases the total resources available for investment. Many economists argue that we could improve our standard of living by cutting back the immigration intake. Their argument runs that cut back would enable us to live better. This could be true for a short period. But I believe that in the long term we would be worse off. Not only does immigration make possible technical and financial economies of scale; it also provides us with a more flexible, mobile and adaptable work force; it generates new skills, know-how and entrepreneurship; and it acts as a spur to technological innovation. In the long-run all this spells higher - not lower - productivity with higher living standards. Even if as much as 2% of our gross national product is required to meet the social capital needs of our new migrants - surely an upper limit - our rate of investment remains quite high by comparison with most other countries. 
Some of our past investment, especially in minerals, has yet to yield its product fully and as it does our comparative productivity growth will improve. Technological change is of course a major source of productivity growth. Some critics have questioned whether Australians spend enough on basic research. We cannot hope to match the bigger economies, such as the United States, in this, but we should at least ensure that we are always applying and developing the best known techniques. I remember talking to some United States manufacturers who said that when they have a problem they put 100 scientists on the job and trample the problem to death. We cannot do that. But to apply the known techniques is a function of managerial entrepreneurship, with its capacity, initiative, willingness to take risks, etc. - not merely for the Government research grant stimulus which is being given. It is for managerial entrepreneurship. 
But it is also a function of the speed and ease with which known technology is diffused throughout industry. Some analysts estimate that only 15% to 30% of potentially useful technology is actually taken advantage of. Much of the rest atrophies because industry does not search it out. This is why my Department gives full support to the work being done by the Productivity Promotion Council of Australia and the productivity groups throughout this country. 1 should mention that today in Sydney is being held the conference of the Productivity Promotion Council of Australia. The Department of Trade and Industry has also been providing an important service to industry through its inter-firm comparisons. 
Another problem which requires new policies - social and economic - is the Structural imbalance in the labour market. By structural imbalance 1 mean a situation where overall there are as many jobs offering as there are job seekers but the job seekers cannot fill the jobs available. There are 4 reasons for this problem in Australia. They are firstly the skill and occupational pattern of the unemployed does nol match the skill and occupational requirements of industry; secondly, there is a relative concentration of employment opportunities in the metropolitan areas of Sydney and Melbourne; thirdly, labour, especially female labour, is not always mobile; and fourthly many of the unemployed have personal employment disabilities such as physical handicap, unsatisfactory work attitudes and records, or age coupled with limited education. 
My own Department, in co-operation with other departments, is examining what are the most effective ways of improving work opportunities, especially for young women, in country areas. New initiatives are needed here, although, as the House knows, there are constitutional difficulties. Other ways of easing the problem - for example, by measures to facilitate greater geographical mobility - are also being studied. At the same time I have asked my Department to see what scope there is for improved counselling and rehabilitation facilities to assist persons with employment disabilities of one kind or another. To increase our understanding of the problems facing these people, a new section was recently created within my Department to carry out research into the effects of social, cultural and environmental factors on employment and employee welfare. Particular attention will be paid to problems of disadvantaged persons in urban and non-urban areas. 
Another important way of attacking structural imbalance is through training. To help the unemployed it is not always necessary to direct the training at them. If workers already in employment can upgrade their skills, new jobs can be released for the relatively unskilled who form such a high proportion of our unemployed. This would represent an important social gain. However, the benefits of training extend much more widely. By easing shortages in those skills and occupations which tend to be in chronically short supply we can reduce the pressure on wages, costs and prices at any given rate of employment, and at the same time raise national productivity. 
In April this year. I released the report of the Tripartite Mission which studies the methods of training skilled workers in Europe. This report has acted as a catalyst to stimulate activity towards a major reappraisal of Australia's vocational training policies. In this present age of rapid technological development, I believe that the need for a complete rethinking of these policies is a matter of great urgency. This will be achieved by the co-operation of the Commonwealth and State governments and authorities, unions and employers. I propose to hold a national conference early next year at which I hope that guidelines for industrial training arrangements will emerge which will meet our needs of future decades. 
I turn now to the vexed question of industrial relations. Earlier I emphasised the importance of productivity. Let there be no doubt about it: Productivity growth can be impeded by an unfavourable climate of industrial relations. Statistics of industrial disputes for the period 1967-1969 show a disturbing upward trend both in the number of disputes and in the losses they caused. The number of disputes in 1969 was -2,014 compared with only 1,340 in 1967; working days lost in 1969 were 1,957,957 compared with 705,315 in 1967; and the loss in wages in 1969 was $22,986,000 compared with $7,263,000 in 1967. Figures for the March quarter of this year, the latest available, show that the upward trend has continued into 1970. These losses in time and wages are disquieting, the more so since they appear to be getting worse. 
Full employment places high demands of responsibility on employers and unions. Some unions have not been accepting this responsibility. They have used the economic bargaining power which full employment gives them for their own purposes without regard for the effects of their actions on their fellow workers and fellow citizens. The modern industrial community cannot afford irresponsible action of this kind, lt is a threat to our living standards, while the inflationary effects of unrestrained wage demands could undermine the Government's full employment policy - a policy which is not confined to the Government but which is adopted by all political parties in Australia. We have evolved new dispute settlement principles and procedures and these were recently agreed upon by my colleague the AttorneyGeneral and myself, the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the National Employers Policy Committee. They provide the opportunity for the universal adoption of a formal set of dispute settling procedures. Previously only some awards and agreements had clauses providing procedures of this kind. They cannot operate overnight for they have to be translated into an award or industry or plant procedure throughout Australia. But the pinnacle policy bodies, the NEPC and the ACTU, have negotiated and endorsed them and will now influence their adoption by employers and unions. While not a panacea, they do offer the prospect of great improvement. 
Budgetary policy is the major arm of economic policy making. This Budget will play a crucial role in maintaining vigorous and balanced economic growth. But manpower policies and policies in regard to wage fixation, productivity and industrial relations will also have a major part to play. Equally, the attitudes and performance of the working population, from shop floor to board room, and the leadership given by enterprises and unions will be crucial to our future. 
In recent times there has been constant use of the terms 'environment', 'pollution* and 'quality of life'. It is very difficult for anybody to set a definition for any of those terms which would be agreed to by all listeners. It would probably be folly for persons today to assess what will be the quality of life requirements of a community living 2 decades from now. Two factors are constant and can be seen to be constant. The achievement of all these things depends on those 2 constants. One is community attitudes and the other is community wealth. To achieve these things we must have better community attitudes. They are building up. But to translate community attitudes into fact we must have community wealth. 
With a fully employed economy, growing as it is at the present time, the way to achieve greater community wealth is by the single method of increased productivity. Productivity affects every single individual, whatever his level in the work force. Throughout any day a great number of people in the work force are taking decisions. We can multiply by many thousands the number who are taking those decisions. If their minds are efficient, if their experience and training suit them for it, the quality of the decision taking will be improved and the productivity performance will be improved. As the numbers in the work force are better trained and as they have a feeling of satisfaction, a feeling of self fulfilment - the fulfilment of their manipulative and intellectual skills - so will our productivity growth in Australia increase. The problems we struggle with are those of affluence and growth, and for that we can be thankful. 

 Mr STEWART (Lang) 14.401-1 must express my amazement at the speech we have just heard from the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden),  who is one of the senior men in the 
Liberal-Country Party Government. In his speech on the Budget he spent about 20 minutes talking about productivity and industrial relationships - an economic thesis, perhaps, on why this Budget was brought down. But he made not one attempt to protect the Government's Budget. He gave no answer to any of the criticism that has been levelled at the Budget, not only by honourable members on this side of the House whom most will accuse of being biased, but by members of the Australian Country Party, Government supporters, newspaper editors, chambers of manufactures, chambers of commerce and primary industry organisations. He made no attempt at all to answer the criticism of the unfairness of the tax reductions that have been announced. He glossed over the whole situation and settled down to blaming the ordinary people of Australia, the workers in industry, for the trouble that confronts this nation at the moment. 
The Minister spoke about the need to increase productivity. All of us on this side of the House appreciate the need to increase productivity but we also appreciate the fact that it is the hands and minds of the workers that help to increase this productivity. We also appreciate the fact, and we have done so since 1891, that on very few occasions has any employer organisation offered to share the results of increased productivity amongst the members of its staff. Not one government of the complexion of the Government in office at the moment has ever gone before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission or any other conciliation court to say they believed that the case being put before that court or commission by the employees' representatives was a case that could be supported. It is no wonder that there is industrial strife when, day in and day out, one can read in the financial pages of the newspapers that companies are making exorbitant profits, that companies have returned capital in bonus shares to their shareholders, and that companies are still making increasingly large profits. Not once- or rarely - have those companies or the people in that industry ever offered to the representatives of the employees a wage or salary increase. The initiative has to be taken by the labour movement and quite often the initiative of the labour movement is rejected by the employers and those people in industry who control the finances. 1 and most of the members on this side of the House would like to see cooperation between the employer and employee, but it is about time the initiative for improved working conditions, increased pay, better compensation allowances, shorter hours and increased annual leave came from the people who run industry, lt should not have to be fought for on every occasion by the representatives of the employees. We have almost reached the stage where, unless the unions use their bargaining power by means of industrial stoppages, they will not get far. particularly when the Government is prepared to enter into national cases and rarely support - it generally opposes - an application put before that court by the Australian Council of Trade Unions. I have said enough about that. 1 think that the people of Australia now realise that without demonstrations and without industrial strife the unions cannot get far. lt is a great pity that these kinds  of  things have to happen. I would like to see some change in the people that are opposed to the political Labor Party and to the industrial Labor Party; I would like to see those people hold out their hands in friendship towards us. We have been doing that for a long time. We have had to do it. Every worker has to do it. He cannot afford to be too abrupt in bis dealings with management even in times of full employment. lt is up to the Government to ensure that it aims for co-operation between the employers organisations and the employees organisations. If the Government can get co-operation between the employers and the employees, I think it will get sufficient co-operation from the employees to keep increasing our productivity and our wealth. 
I turn now to the Budget proper. After listening to the Budget Speech. I am certain that it is not fame but infamy that the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  has achieved by this Budget. This document will be remembered for its subterfuges rather than its positive aspects. I am afraid that the Treasurer has missed his golden opportunity; he cannot be regarded now as anything but an unimaginative, stodgy, timid and unimpressive Treasurer. The Budget has failed the pensioners, the low and middle income groups, the farmers, the motor cnr companies, the oil companies and the mothers and fathers of our families. The miserable increase of 50c per week to age, invalid, widow and service pensioners has almost every pensioner and pensioner organisation up in arms. The unfairness of the 10% reduction in income tax for income earners up to $10,000 a year has displeased everybody. The paltry assistance to primary producers has cost untold votes for the Government in country areas. It has not yet dawned on our bucolic friends from the Australian Country Party just how deep the animosity towards this Budget is running. The increase in company tax, sales tax, and excise on petrol has annoyed the management of companies throughout Australia. The failure to increase child endowment payments has been taken by the parents of our children as an indication of the complete and utter disregard of the Government for their problems. It is no wonder that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  was forced to move an amendment to the Budget. I support the amendment, which reads: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: 'this House condemns this deceptive and negative Budget because it fails to meet the real needs of the Australian people, especially with respect to (a) standards of social service and war pensioners, (b) assistance to schools, hospital and urban authorities and (c) restructuring of stricken primary industries and because it introduces and increases taxes and charges of a regressive and inequitable nature'. 
My colleagues on this side of the House, who have spoken or who are to speak in this debate, have pinpointed or will pinpoint the failure of the Government in the matters I have named. I will leave that job to them, whilst I devote my time to highlighting the propensity of the Government to regard itself as being completely above the people. It makes no difference whether the people concerned are scientists, doctors, Opposition members, journalists or ecologists. Once the Government or one of its instrumentalities has made a decision, the Government adopts a 'holier than thou' attitude. 
The topic I wish to discuss concerns Australia's use of nuclear power. In his Budget Speech the Treasurer said: 
An amount of $2.4 m is provided for expenditure by the Australian Atomic Energy Commission in connection with the proposed nuclear power station at Jervis Bay. A further amount may be required later in the year should there be  expen diture  under major construction contracts. 
The nuclear reactor to be constructed at Jervis Bay is to be the first in Australia. Estimates given by  Sir Phillip  Baxter,  Chairman  of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission, anticipate the expenditure of at least $5, 000m on atomic power stations by the turn of the century. This range of expenditure cannot be regarded lightly, but the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  is most reluctant to give detailed information on the choice of the site, the investigations carried out, the safety standards laid down, the comparative cost of nuclear generated electricity and thermal generated electricity and many other factors which should be taken into account before a decision of this magnitude is made. 
The Government and the Atomic Energy Commission may have this information, but this 1 am inclined to doubt. If they have the information, it should be made available for public scrutiny and discussion. After all, the money to be expended does not belong to the Minister or to any officer of the Commission but to the taxpayers of the Commonwealth. They are entitled to know whether every single factor was considered carefully before the decision was taken. Several scientists, various newspapers,  Senator Willesee  and I have been endeavouring, during the past few months, to obtain some information from the Government, but we have had little success. We are being treated as if it is none of our business, that we could not possibly know whether the decision was correct. I am prepared to agree that I would not know, but there are many other qualified people in the community who are capable of assessing the information and giving an informed opinion. I therefore expect far greater frankness from the Minister than I have received. 
Today I intend to give some examples of evasiveness on the part of the Minister and to pose some specific questions on this matter. I would greatly appreciate a detailed statement from the Minister as soon as posible. Before doing this, I make it quite clear that I am not opposed to Australia using nuclear power. I can see many advantages. I do not begrudge the enormous amount of money involved so long as it can be shown that the decision has been taken after due and proper consideration and not just to satisfy the whim or ambition of an individual. 
The decision to construct Australia's first nuclear reactor was announced by the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  in October 1969. The site was to be Jervis Bay, the cost SI 30m and the station would be of 500 megawatt capacity; it would be owned and financed by the Commonwealth and operated by the New South Wales Electricity Commission; the electricity generated would be fed into the New South Wales grid and the long term power requirements of the Australian Capital Territory would be guaranteed; the station was to be in operation in 1975. 1 want the House to remember that the official announcement was made in October 1969. Many of the other details that I have given were released subsequently. From October to June specifications were prepared and issued and tenders returned. The volume of tenders and tender documents, according to the Minister for National Development, was such that they weighed approximately 7 tons. By 23rd August the 7 tenderers had been reduced to 4 - a mighty swift operation for a project originally estimated to cost $130m. This has been done by an organisation which was formed in 1953 and which has not been noted for its speed of action in the past. To add to the mystery of this inordinate haste, preparations on the site at Jervis Bay have commenced already. 
The first question I pose is this: Why has this project become so urgent and what has caused this sudden burst of activity on the part of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission? No information as to whether the tenders received were anywhere near the estimate of cost has been given and I believe that the Parliament and the people are entitled to know. On 12th June 1970 I received a reply to a question I put on notice. The question was: 
How will the cost of electricity generated at the proposed nuclear power station at Jervis Bay compare with the cost of electricity from conventional powered stations? 
When will the generation of electricity by nuclear power be an economical proposition for Australia? 
In his reply, the Minister for National Development said: 
A simple answer in quantitative terms is not practicable but in broad terms it can be stated that the estimated cost of electricity from the Jervis Bay station is expected to be somewhat higher than the large very favourably placed coalfired units at present being erected in New South Wales; it will, however, likely be lower than those of many stations which have been operating in the other States for some time. 
Given that no major changes occur in the trends of costs of both conventional and nuclear stations the short answer is that nuclear stations will be economical when the electricity systems in the respective States are large enough to absorb larger units; this is likely to be the case in some States in the mid-1980s but will vary from State to State. 
On 19th August I received an answer to another question on notice. That question was as follows: 
What are the comparative (a) capital (b) operating and (c) maintenance costs of SOO MW (i) CANDU and (ii) SGHWR type reactors? 
They are the 2 reactors that are at present under consideration, or were favoured before tenders were called. The Minister replied to that question: 
Tenders for the Jervis Bay nuclear power station closed on 15th June 1970. They included tenders for the CANDU and SGHWR types but it will not be possible to give accurate up-to-date relative costs for these 2 types until the tenders have been fully evaluated. 
Australia is entering on to a project that is likely to cost $5,000m before the year 2000 and contracts are being evaluated, yet the Minister cannot give me specific information on comparative costs between nuclear power stations and conventional power stations. He cannot give me comparative costs for the 2 favoured reactor types- the CANDU and the SGHWR. If I cannot get the information from the Minister I have to look elsewhere for it. I have before me a paper that was prepared by  Mr Bruce  Ross of the Wollongong University College of New South Wales and which was presented to a conference of Australian and New Zealand economists in Melbourne in May 1970.  His  paper is entitled 'Costs of Nuclear Power Stations and Coal-Fired Power Stations in New South Wales'. In it is set forth in a fully documented manner a comparison of costs.  Mr Ross  was careful to point out that he had to make certain assumptions to reach his figures. He quotes as an example of a coalfired station the Munmorah power station in New South Wales and he gives official figures for the costs of construction, fuel, operating and maintenance.  Mr Ross  has to rely on estimated figures for the cost of operating a nuclear power station, but in  all instances he has taken a conservative figure. For instance, he has estimated the construction cost at $125m which is $5m below the cost estimated by the Government. For the Munmorah power station - the coal-fired station - the capital cost is 122c per kilowatt hour, the fuel cost is 159c per kilowatt hour and the operating and maintenance costs are .100c per kilowatt hour, making a total of .381c per kilowatt hour. He makes a comparison with the  CANDU-type  reactor and he relies on official statements by authorities and experts in this field for bis figures. The capital cost is .385c per kilowatt hour, the interest on fuel inventory is .008c, the cost of fuel replacement is .091c, the cost of heavy water replacement is .010c and the operating and maintenance costs are .100c, making a total of .594c per kilowatt hour. This is a difference of .213c per kilowatt hour or 55.9% higher than for a conventional coal-fired power station. 

 Mr Ross also queries the size of the reactor chosen by the Government and quotes a table showing the details of the first power reactor installed by member countries of the International Atomic Energy Agency.  His  source is the International Atomic Energy Agency 'Bulletin' of 1 1th January 1969. With the concurrence of honourable .members I incorporate the table in Hansard: 

<graphic href="069131197008274_53_3.jpg"></graphic>


 Mr Ross concludes his paper by saying: 
There is probably a good deal of logic, however, in constructing a nuclear power station in Australia to enable local scientists and technicians to obtain familiarity with nuclear techniques. However it Ls doubtful whether a station of 500 MW would be most suitable for this purpose. Table 4 gives details of the first power reactor constructed by member countries of the International Atomic Energy Commission. It is significant that no other country has commenced the nuclear generation of electricity with a station as large as that planned for Jervis Bay. 
The justification for choosing a 500 MW unit is. presumably, because this is the mimimum sized nuclear station which can compete economically with coal in most countries, (t has been demonstrated, however, such a station is not competitive in New South Wales. 
Under these circumstances the economic criterion should not be the minimisation of unit costs of nuclear generation. Rather it should be the minimisation of the total additional costs of generating electricity following the introduction of a power reactor. 
Using this criterion it is likely that the most economic way of introducing nuclear power to Australia would be to construct a smaller nuclear power station in a State with higher conventional generating costs than New South Wales.  lt will be appreciated mat I am not in a position to confirm or deny the figures  provided by  Mr Ross,  but the Australian Atomic Energy Commission should be, and I think it is up to the Minister to provide the House with similar estimates prepared by the Commission. 
There is one further point that I want to make on the subject of costs, and it is that the Commonwealth is to provide power from the nuclear reactor to New South Wales at no more than the cost of thermal generated power. At .213c per kilowatt hour above the generating costs of thermal power, this means that the Commonwealth will be subsidising electricity users in New South Wales. I have no doubt that when nuclear reactors are installed in the other States the Commonwealth will have to subsidise electricity wherever costs are higher than in thermal generated units. The estimate is that most States will be capable of taking nuclear power by the mid-1980s. The power station at Jervis Bay is expected to come into operation by 1975 so it seems that the Commonwealth will be up for quite an amount in subsidising electricity charges if  Mr Ross's  figures are correct. I have not been able to get the information I have been seeking from the Minister through questions so I hope he will supply that information in response to this speech. 
In an official document that I have there is mention of the selection of the site at Jervis Bay for the nuclear power station. The selection of the site at Jervis Bay has caused a great deal of anxiety and criticism. According to a paper I have a preliminary survey was made of 15 sites in all. Eight were selected for more detailed investigation. Two of these were in the Australian Capital Territory, 4 in New South Wales - including 1 in the Snowy Mountains - and 2 on Commonwealth Territory at Jervis Bay. On 19th August I asked the Minister for National Development in a question upon notice whether any other sites in the Jervis Bay area were considered and, if so, where. The Minister replied: 
Yes. Bristol Point and Scottish Inlet were considered in addition to Murray's Beach, but were found to be unsuitable on several grounds. 
I have had other questions on the notice paper about what sites were investigated and why they were considered to be not as suitable as the Jervis Bay site. I have still not received replies to those questions. 
I have asked the Minister for National Development whether he will make available reports on such things as tha geological, hydrological, hydrographical, meteorological, ecological and environmental investigations carried out at each of the sites considered and he told me that these were confidential studies made by the Department. But in answer to a subsequent question he said that these detailed studies were being made. If honourable members look at the notice paper they will see that I have on it a question asking which answer is correct. 

 Sir Philip Baxter estimates that S5,000m will be spent on nuclear work before the year 2000. There has been much criticism of nuclear power itself and much doubt about safety standards and about whether Jervis Bay is the correct site for a nuclear power station. I have read articles suggesting that our first nuclear power station should be built in South Australia and should be a combined generating and desalination plant. I have here an answer to a question that was asked by  Senator Willesee.  It states that while the reactors we are looking at now will use natural uranium, certain countries which have used such reactors have now made a change and will not use natural uranium in their nuclear reactors in the future. 
So many questions are still to be answered. The only body in Australia which seems to know those answers - and I again query whether it knows them all - is the Australian Atomic Energy Commission. Grave doubts have been expressed about this project at Jervis Bay because not sufficient information has been given out by the Commission or by the Government. Surely we have people in the community who can evaluate the information. I do not suggest that I can evaluate it but I think an evaluation should be made available. I suggest to the Minister that consideration be given to referring either to a select committee of this Parliament or a standing committee of the Senate the consideration of such matters as the comparative cost of nuclear and thermal stations, the siting of the power stations, the relation of the first station to planning for the future power needs of Australia, constitutional limitations on the utilisation of nuclear power, the environmental effects of nuclear power stations and Australia's preparedness for the advent of nuclear technology. All these matters need to be investigated. 
Establishment of a nuclear power station is a very big project; it is a project new to Australia; it is a project that not many other countries in the world have undertaken. I am in favour of the introduction of nuclear generated power into Australia and I would say that most members of the Australian Labor Party are in favour of it. But we would like to be assured that the Government has given more consideration to this decision than it gave to the decision to purchase the FIJI or that the New South Wales Government gave to the decision to erect the Opera House. 
An application was before the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission on which a decision was given on, I think, 17th June. The terms of the decision were to reject an application for a 40-hour week in the pastoral industry. A meeting of the union took place at the end of July. It determined to issue an instruction to its members not to work more than 40 hours a week on a S-day spread of hours. It went further to say that, if any action was taken against any of its members for complying with the instruction of the union, it would declare black the property concerned. So, a very real conflict exists between the Commission's decision which was given as a result of an application made to it by the union and the decision of the union not to accept the decision and therefore instructing its members to act in the way it did and going further to declare a willingness to impose a black ban. 
Just what that black ban would mean, I can only guess at; and, because it would be a guess, I will not state it. We would need to wait time to see whether or not the members of the union do do what they are advised to do and, if they do, what would be the response of the employers and then what would happen with the black ban. I am confident that the employers know what recourse they would have in these circumstances. I leave it to them to see what happens and to take the initiative. 
I should mention to the honourable member that, as I remember the decision of the Commission, it pointed out that of approximately 30,000 employees in the industry only about 1,150 - again I test my recollection - are members of the union. So, whether or not the activities of the union will be effective remains to be seen. 
 I will have to obtain details for the honourable gentleman in relation to the disability of epilepsy. I am quite proud of the efforts of the Commonwealth Employment Service in overcoming employer resistance to employing disabled people and also in overcoming the reluctance of disabled people to enter into employment. A very great deal has been achieved. I think that more has to be done. I take particular note of the element of the question concerning safety measures for epileptics. I will give a full answer to the honourable member by letter. 
I move: 
That Government Business shall take precedence over General Business tomorrow. 
The motion which I have just moved is in accordance with the practice of the House that while the Budget debate proceeds it has precedence over General Business or Grievance Day on a Thursday. This is to allow honourable members to continue to debate the Budget. The vote on the Budget will not be taken until shortly before dinner tomorrow. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) From information revealed in the Commonwealth Statistician's 'Survey of the Incidence of Industrial Awards, Determinations and Collective Agreements, May 1968' it is estimated that 40.1 per cent of employees in Australia are affected by Commonwealth awards. In terms of numbers of employees this estimate could be expressed as 1,740,000. (Excluded from the 1968 survey were all employees in rural industry, in private domestic service, of private employers in hotels, restaurants and other personal services, employees of private employers not subject to payroll tax and employees in the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As I indicated when announcing the decision to publish the birthdates drawn in future national service ballots, publication was not previously undertaken because this had been considered contrary to the interests of the men who were affected by the ballots. It is, however, clearly in the public interest that the fullest possible information about national service and the arrangements adopted, consistent with security requirements and the interests of the men affected, should be publicly available. Following a detailed re-examination it was concluded that to publish future ballot results will be a beneficial step. 
I move: 
That standing order 40 be omitted with a view to inserting the following standing order in place thereof: 
Unless otherwise ordered, the House shall meet for the despatch of business - 
in the first sitting week after any nonsitting period extending beyond a week on - 
Tuesday at two o'clock p.m. 
Wednesday at two o'clock p.m. 
Thursday at ten o'clock a.m. and 
Friday at ten o'clock a.m.; 
in the second week on - 
Monday at two o'clock p.m. 
Tuesday at ten o'clock a.m. 
Wednesday at two o'clock p.m. and 
Thursday at ten o'clock a.m. 
From the termination of the last sitting in the second sitting week, the House shall stand adjourned until the second Tuesday after that termination. 
The three-weekly cycle will then be repeated. 
That the standing order come into operation on 13 October 1970. 
I am introducing these motions, I suppose, in the sense of being the servant of the House and these motions are the recommendations of the Standing Orders Committee. The Parliament discussed 3 matters and approved them in principle either last week or the week before. The 3 things they approved in principle were the 3-week cycle of sittings, reduced speaking times and a reduced quorum. The 3 matters before the House tonight will give effect to each of those 3 things. I remind the House that it was the will of the Government Parties and of the Opposition Party that there should be a free vote on these 3 matters which I have enumerated. Last week I circulated a memorandum to all members. The purpose of that memorandum was to identify lo honourable members the 3 particular aspects which may be discussed. They were to substitute a 10.30 a.m. start for a 10 o'clock start - and this is a matter for the House to determine - a 2.30 p.m. start for a 1 p.m. start, and a Tuesday afternoon start for a Tuesday morning start on the second week. 
I circulated another memorandum to all members earlier this week in which 1 pointed out that 1 had had discussions with the Clerks of the House and they had brought to my attention the fact that although 1 had identified the 3 areas in which the House would want to take decisions, because the Standing Orders required motions to be in a technically acceptable form and also to protect the rights of members it was desirable to work out the terms of the motions which would be moved to give effect to each of these 3 principles. I then circulated 5 forms of motion. 1 want to point out that if the motions are moved the Chair is obliged to accept them; and if the Chair accepts the motions, this may prevent the moving of a motion, except by suspending the Standing Orders and a variety of other things, which would affect the earlier amendments that may be wanted by honourable members. Therefore I circulated these forms of motion with the suggestion that if any honourable members wanted to move them then they ought to move them in the order in which they appear on the memorandum. 
Today,  Mr Speaker.  1 had the opportunity to send around a further memorandum which contains extracts of a letter you addressed to me. This deals with the question of whether it should be a 10 a.m. or a 10.30 a.m. start when there are morning starts or a 2 p.m. or a 2.30 p.m. start when there are afternoon starts. 
Those are the points which I think I ought to make. In order to make sure that everything is clear in the minds of all honourable members I will reiterate. The points of principle that need to be determined by the House are, essentially, the starting times. The starting times can be either 10 a.m. or 10.30 a.m. when we commence in the morning and 2 p.m. or 2.30 p.m. when we commence in the afternoon. If any honourable members would prefer  a  10.30 a.m. start in the morning or a 2.30 p.m. start in the afternoon, the terms of the motions which they would move are contained in the memorandum I circulated. 
 It has been circulated.  Mr Speaker,  I want to make the point, as 1 did at the outset, that I moved the motion in accordance with the terms of the report of the Standing Committee in the capacity of the servant of the House. There may be some honourable members who think 1 am not often the servant of the House but on this occasion I assure them that I am doing it in that form. Because 1 moved the motion in that character I want to make it perfectly clear to honourable members that, although I moved the motions for a 10 a.m. start on the mornings on which we commence and the 2 p.m. start on the afternoons when we commence, 1 do not agree with them. If amendments are moved which would provide for a 10.30 a.m. start and a 2.30 p.m. start I would support them. I moved the motion in the form that the Standing Orders Committee reported in order to have the report of the Standing Orders Committee before the House.  Mr Speaker,  the best way for me to explain why 1 support a 10.30 a.m. start or a 2.30 p.m. start is to read the extract from your letter to me which I circulated today, lt states: 
The irreducible time required for the preparation of material for the meeting of the House, having in mind that with night sittings officers have as little as six hours' sleep, would impose a tremendous strain if the House were to meet al 10 a.m. As the pattern of the programme for a sitting day may not become clear until I p.m or later, a meeting of the House at 2 p.m. imposes a like pressure and problem. 
Commencing times of (0.30 a.m. and 2.30 p.m. are considered reasonable even although on those days on which the House meets at 2.30 p.m. officers of the Table Office in particular are required to work through the lunch hour and take lunch on the run.' 
That discloses reasons why the departments servicing the Parliament, if I may use that term, would prefer the later start. To my mind there is another equally important reason so far as the afternoon commencing time is concerned. 1 accept the arguments advanced by you,  Mr Speaker,  and the service departments for a 10.30 a.m. start. As for the afternoon,  a  2 p.m. rather than  a  2.30 p.m. start would make it terribly difficult for the great number of committees which meet during the lunch hour. The public may not be aware - certainly honourable members are aware of it - that almost every honourable member in this House is serving on a number of committees. Most of them spend at least half of the meal hours at committee meetings. If the period for lunch is only 1 hour it really will frustrate the activities of committees. For that reason I very strongly support the 2.30 p.m. start. I also support a 10.30 a.m. start. Although I am not as committed to the 10.30 a.m. start I would vote for it. Although I moved the motion for a 10 a.m. start and for a 2 p.m. start I hope amendments are moved and I state now that I will support them. 
I come to the next point I want to make clear. The third issue of principle relates to the second Tuesday of the 2 weeks sitting. The Standing Orders Committee report recommends that on that day we commence the sitting in the morning. Whether it be at 10 a.m. or 10.30 a.m. depends upon the will of the House. But,  Mr Speaker,  I hope that there will be an amendment moved which will provide that on the Tuesday of the second week the commencement will be in the afternoon rather than in the morning. If an amendment is moved along those lines I will support it. 
My reason is that we do have a number of statutory and joint select committees - in addition there are meetings of the Party organisations - and Tuesday morning is an important morning traditionally. If we do not have the capacity for the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works, the Joint Committee of Public Accounts, the Parliamentary Foreign Affairs Committee and such other select committees as are appointed by the will of the House to sit on Tuesday mornings this will make a very big difference to the method in which we conduct our business in committee form. Therefore I will support the amendment if it is moved. 
The next point I come to is the one about which I think the greatest controversy is likely to emerge. I have argued for the 10.30 a.m. start rather than 10 a.m. and for the 2.30 p.m. start rather than 2 p.m. The Standing Orders Committee report recommends a finishing time of 10.30 p.m. It so happens,  Mr Speaker,  that this is not contained in my motion because the finishing time does not relate to the Standing Orders. The finishing time is determined by a sessional order. The sessional order is for the automatic adjournment to be put by you at 11 p.m. I would like to continue that 11 p.m. finish. If the House opted for a 2 p.m. start I would accept that the automatic adjournment should be put at 10.30 p.m. But if the House opts for a 2.30 p.m. start then I think we should sit through to 1 1 p.m. In reality I think this ought not to be seen as an issue for a 2 p.m. start and a 10.30 p.m. finish. It should be seen in reality as a 2.30 p.m. start and an 11 p.m. finish. 
The business of the House is conducted in a traditional form and this provides for question time. Recently we have seen the introduction of quite a considerable number of petitions. These take time. Also, statements are made by Ministers and very often members of the Opposition wish to respond to those statements. Periodically members of the Opposition take it into their heads that they ought to pursue some initiative on a political level, and this takes time. I think it is fair to say that the net result is that we have available to us about 4 hours a day for Government business after we take account of all these other things. A half hour is a very significant ratio to the time that is available to us. Therefore I am now arguing not merely as a member of this House but as a member charged with the responsibilities of putting the business through the House. In discharging that responsibility I find a very real situation, which is rather a dilemma, in that every member of this House finds that on some issues he thinks it is very important to him that he should express his view in the debate. I think he ought to have that opportunity so far as it is possible for this to be done. If the times of sittings of this House are cut down difficulties will be created. 
Thank you. In my view the problems that we have in this House are often problems of temper. Sometimes they are well founded and sometimes they are not well founded. But whenever we have these problems they almost invariably relate to the period of time which is allowed for a debate to continue. I am stating my view not exclusively as Leader of the House, but as Leader of the House and as a member of this House: I believe that we really ought to think of the hours as 2 p.m. to 10.30 p.m. or 2.30 p.m. to 11 p.m., and for reasons 1 have already given I think it should be a 2.30 p.m. start and therefore an 1 1 p.m. finish. 
A final point that I should make is that honourable gentlemen will have seen that my motion, which 1 have circulated, does not provide for the ending times. The reason 1 have not included these times is that they are not incorporated in the Standing Orders. They are contained in the sessional orders. The sessional order which controls the conclusion of a sitting day at the moment is that at II o'clock  Mr Speaker  puts the adjournment motion. This has been agreed to. I am bound to say that if it is the will of the Parliament that the ending time should be 10.30 we will have to give consideration to what we do about the sessional order. I go no further than to say that we would need to give consideration to the sessional order. I think that I have put the issues. I would hope,  Mr Speaker,  having regard to the fact that we have already decided these arrangements in principle, that we may expect that honourable members would like the whole matter concluded this evening. 
1 draw the honourable member's attention to today's Notice Paper. He will see that Notice No. 5 is the matter we are dealing with at the moment. We have yet to come to Notice No. 6 which deals with specific times for debates. Notice No. 5 deals with commencement times. 
I think the House has discussed this matter fairly broadly. Everyone knows what is in his mind. I think the time has come for us to take a vote on this issue. I have gathered from the voices around the chamber that the general consensus is that we should have a vote now. 
Yes, I am. 
It may not, but what I am putting before the House will become clear. I moved a motion in relation to the report of the Standing Orders Committee, to which an amendment has been moved by the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass).  That amendment is to omit certain words in my motion with the view to inserting other words. I would suggest when you put the question,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  'that the words proposed to be omitted stand part of the question,' honourable members who want the starting times set out in the Standing Orders Committee's report, namely 10 a.m. and 2 p.m., should vote 'yes' - that the words stand. I hope this is clear to the House. If honourable members do not want a 10 a.m. and a 2 p.m. start they should vote no'. If the vote of 'no' is carried then the House can apply standing order 167 which provides that when there is a complicated question the matter can be separated. If it is the will of the House we can consider each of these 5 questions separately. I do not think that we will want a division on those questions because they are interrelated. For those reasons I oppose the motion proposed by the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant).  I understand the terms in which he put his motion. I realise he was trying to get to the issue. But the issue is much simpler in the way I have put it. I therefore oppose the motion. I hope having made my view clear that the honourable member for Wills will, with the leave of the House, withdraw his motion. I think the time has come for a vote on this issue. 
I move: 
That standing order 91 be amended us recommended in the Report of the Standing Orders Committee brought up on 18th August 1970. 
That the amended standing order come into operation on 13 th October 1970. 
In the memorandum which was circulated to all honourable members on Friday, I think it was, of last week, in the first column 1 set out standing order 91 which states the time limits for speeches as at present contained in the Standing Orders. In the second column I set out the times for speeches as proposed by the Standing Orders Committee. I set out in the third column the proposed times which I expected would be moved tonight, because I had been told by one or two honourable members that they proposed to move this motion. I thought for the convenience of honourable members that they should have the 3 proposals before them. I would suggest to the House that really there is not much occasion for debate on  these  issues because there are 3 proposals there. I would hope that what will follow is that the proposed amendment to my motion will be moved and that we will then have a vote on it very shortly afterwards. If I could shortly summarise it, the Standing Orders Committee generally has taken 5 minutes off the proposed speaking times. The amendment which will be moved will propose, generally speaking, to take off 10 or 15 minutes. Because this is something which will be abundantly clear to all honourable members when they see it, I will make no further comment. I expect that the motion will be moved and then I expect honourable members will want to vote on it fairly quickly. 
The honourable member will permit me to remind him that I announced some time ago that the National Service Act was under review. At the time there was a great deal of discussion on the matter. Following that I issued a statement that the Government had failed to find a civilian alternative to national service which met the necessary requirements and that consequently action under the National Service Act would proceed. At the same time it was announced that the regulations would be amended to allow me to refer to courts the issue of conscientious objection by those people who claimed it but were unwilling to make application for it. If my memory serves me correctly those regulations were amended about 10 days ago. When those regulations were amended 6 cases were immediately referred for determination of the status of conscientious objectors. There will be more such referrals. At the same time I authorised my Department to give instructions to the appropriate persons for the conduct of prosecutions against those persons who had refused to render service. Those prosecutions will firstly proceed against those persons who have over a long period of time refused to undertake service. I have seen a report - I do not know whether it is accurate or not - in which one of the persons who will receive a summons stated that the Government was picking him out because he was an activist in the anti-conscription campaign. That is not a fact. That person is being proceeded against along with the others in the ordinary way. Over the next few weeks the prosecutions will proceed. 
The honourable gentleman added to his question some rather colourful words relating to  Mr Zarb.  I think he asked why the Government is continuing the persecution of  Mr Zarb.  I should like to remind the honourable gentleman and the House of a few salient facts.  Mr Zarb  made application to the magistrate to be declared a conscientious objector. The magistrate refused to so declare him. I should point out that at that procedure there is no provision for costs at all.  Mr Zarb  then took action under the normal legal procedures. If my recollection serves me, it was by way of a prerogative writ and went to the High Court. At that time a very great deal of publicity was given to the fact that campaigns would be held to raise funds in order to pay  Mr Zarb's  costs. In November 1969 a direct appeal for funds was held. It appeared in the 'Catholic Worker' and stated that any donations should be sent to the Conscientious Objectors Non-Pacifist Advisory Committee, which is an organisation known to have assisted other protesters with financial aid. 
In August 1969 a demonstration outside Pentridge Gaol was reported to have raised $800 to fight Zarb's case. It was reported in the Melbourne Press that local branches of the Australian Labor Party had been asked to contribute to the cost of Zarb's appeal. When the matter went before the High Court and was dismissed the Chief Justice made some comments. I think it is worth reminding the House of them. When dismissing Zarb's appeal the Chief Justice, when speaking on one of the main grounds - that is, that Zarb had an honest belief that he had been granted exemption - said that the assertion that Zarb had this belief was 'markedly dishonest' and that the submission was 'not merely unmeritorious but without any foundation'. Each of the other main grounds was firmly rejected. 
A bill of costs was taxed. An order for costs was made against Zarb. If my recollection serves me, the bill of costs was presented to  Mr Zarb  about December of last year. At the time he was informed that the Government would appreciate any information he could provide as to the distribution of the funds which were collected specifically for that purpose. The letter which was written by my colleague, the Attorney-General, to  Mr Zarb  has not been reported accurately in the Press. I do not say that as a criticism of the Press. I think it is a criticism which must be made of an inaccuracy of communication, perhaps by  Mr Zarb.  The letter which my colleague wrote in December 1969 said: 
You may remember that when I was first approached by  Dr Cairns  on Zarb's behalf I informed you about the matter. We both agreed that this is a case in which it would not be appropriate for the Commonwealth to enforce its claims for costs. As I understand the position, it will be necessary if the claim is not to be pursued for your Department to make an application. 
The next thing that happened was that a letter went to  Mr Zarb  asking for full details. So far we have not received those details. When the details are provided we will be able to determine the matter. But let me say that, if funds have been contributed for this purpose, I feel that the funds ought to be used and that Consolidated Revenue ought not to be the source of payment. 
There has been an attempt to achieve a permanency situation in the port of Darwin. Because of the size of the port and some other circumstances it has been difficult to find a resolution of this question through the National Stevedoring Industry Council. The stevedoring branch of the North Australian Workers Union has, over a period of time, proceeded with go-slow tactics, limitations on work and, at times, strikes. This is a very great tragedy because it will, I am sure, prejudice the development of Darwin as a port, as a harbour and as a channel of commerce. However, the situation at this moment is that on Wednesday last the employers made an application to  Mr Justice  Gallagher for a bans clause and he deferred that application until Monday, 7th September, in Sydney and in the meantime ordered a return to work. My understanding is that that return to work order has been complied with. The matter will come on before  Mr Justice  Gallagher again on Monday. It would be inappropriate for me to say anything further. 
 In reply to an earlier question I referred to an amendment of the regulations which enables matters to be referred to a court for determination whether a person in a conscientious objector even though he fails or refuses to make an application to be declared a conscientious objector. Had  Mr Ross  not been in prison, according to the advice given to me by my officers his case was one which would have been so regarded. But because he was in prison the act of conviction and imprisonment removed him from the statutory requirement to render service so that the changes in the regulations could not apply to him. I therefore decided that we ought to do what we possibly could to make the position equivalent. In order to do that I thought it best to appoint a judge for the purpose, because that would take care of the appeal provisions at the same time. 

 Mr Justice Smithers was appointed to inquire into the conscientious beliefs of  Mr Ross  and to report. It was not a judicial procedure. I had no power to order the way in which the inquiry should be conducted. That was entirely a matter for the person appointed to conduct the inquiry. After reading the Press report, I expect to receive a report from  Mr Justice  Smithers very shortly. When I receive that report I will examine it with my colleague, the Attorney-General. I give no undertakings of the kind asked for by the honourable gentleman for I cannot anticipate what will be contained in the report. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  we have known the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  for a considerable period. We have known that the tactic of the Parliamentary Labor Party when it is in difficulties is to call upon the honourable member for Grayndler to be funny. The fact is that he has tried to be funny on an occasion like this and then finished with the ringing peroration: 'Let us debate the issue'. The honourable member for Grayndler did not devote one minute of his time to this issue. He ran away from it. He is not a man whom one usually expects to run away from things. He is so sensitive about this issue. He is, as we all know, an honourable man. But in order to serve the interests of his Party he is prepared to stand up and divert attention from the issue by one of his funny speeches. I think that the time has come when he should cease to be the jester for the Australian Labor Party and should fight within the ALP for the things which we know he believes. 
The honourable member came in here and accused the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns),  who raised this matter, of being - and I quote him, for it must be remembered by the honourable member that he said this in his exuberance to find humour - a young Hitler. This is the man who is saying that the Vietnam Moratorium should be supported. He is prepared in order to gain support, to gain privilege and to provide a smokescreen for it to attack bitterly a man who, he knows, is activated by the highest motives and who on all occasions has acted with the greatest of concern for the national interests of this country. 
The honourable member for Lilley, in opening this debate, put 3 challenges to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  The first was: Did the Leader of the Opposition surrender his position at the meeting of the Federal Executive of the Australian Labor Party at Broken Hill? Secondly, did the ALP Executive officially adopt the popular front technique? He challenged him, thirdly, to refute that the Moratorium movement is composed of 3 groups: The Communist Party of Australia, the peace groups and now the Australian Labor Party; and that the ALP is trying to bring the Australian Council of Trade Unions formally into it. These are the 3 challenges that were put by the honourable gentleman. They were not even mentioned by the honourable member for Grayndler. I am not surprised for I believe that the honourable member for Grayndler does not support the Moratorium Campaign. Out of a misguided sense of loyalty, the honourable member for Grayndler has done what his Party has put him up to do, that is, make a speech full of attempted humour. 
As for the time that the honourable member took to read extracts from 'Mein Kampf to the House, I would say that we can all remember what happened in the past. We do not need to be reminded how a country can be taken over insidiously by forces which are destructive to that country. This is the reason why the honourable member for Lilley proposed this matter for discussion. He wants the Australian people to be given the opportunity to see the insidious nature of the movement which is around us at all times. It is a direct descendant of the peace groups. The peace groups come in different forms at different times. When exposed, they must collapse because they cannot stand up to scrutiny. The Vietnam Moratorium movement is a direct descendant of peace groups. 
It is imperative for members on this side of the House to raise the matter so that it can be exposed just as it is imperative for members on the Opposition side of the House to submit it to the scrutiny that it deserves; for, unless it is committed to that scrutiny, it may achieve its objectives. If it achieves its objectives, this country will not be the democratic country which we are all determined it should be. I do not accuse the Opposition, and nobody ought  to  accuse the Opposition, of attempting, or willingly or recklessly being willing, to submit the country to this sort of undermining influence. Today Opposition members need to examine their actions and those of the movement to see whether or not the real purpose of the movement is being kept from their view and whether they are not being fed false propaganda about it in order to give it respectability. 
The Australian Labor Party has officially associated itself with this Vietnam Moratorium. By a unanimous resolution which was adopted at Broken Hill - it is too important to take this point now; it is a throw away point - the Leader of the Opposition was directed at the Federal Executive meeting what to do. It directed the Leader of the Opposition and the Federal Secretary of the Party in combination to meet  Mr Hawke,  the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions', to plan some form of action. That was on 6th August. It is very important to note the date. On 6th August the Federal Executive gave that direction. In that resolution the Leader of the Opposition and the Federal Secretary were directed to talk to  Mr Hawke  to plan a course of action. In May there had been a national consultation of the Vietnam Moratorium organisers; perhaps the best description of this body is the federal executive, although I do not know that that is necessarily the term because it is a rather loose group. People come from various sources, from different representational groups. They are from a wide range of what one might call the far left. Everybody knows that on the far left at the moment there is extreme competition in militancy. Maoists, the Trotskyites, the 
Muscovites and the Peking people are in competition in militancy. They came together and they reached certain conclusions. They passed on their recommendations to the State branches of the Vietnam Moratorium committee. 
The Victorian State committee went further than the Federal body. The Victorian body made amendments to the recommendations. The Federal body had recommended that anti-conscription and anti-Vietnam should be the main issues. When that recommendation got down to Victoria that body adopted it with amendments and in the Richmond Town Hall on 19th July recommendations were circulated which were directed to the disruption of the execution of the law of the Commonwealth. They stated that while major attention should be given to draft resistance certain other things ought to be done. They recommended that an agent be appointed for every group to give advice as to how to avoid the draft and on how to avoid the law. They went further than that. They said that the National Service Act should be obstructed in every way possible so that it would not work. 
They said this should be done by filling in false forms. 
The honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Fulton)  got up here the other day and asked a question of the Prime Minister in my temporary absence. He said: 'Please do not send me to gaol' - raising a laugh, wanting to raise publicity. Why did the organisers do it? It was to have him do exactly that thing to give publicity. It appeals to them to get that publicity. That is their purpose. I do not say this in any condescending way, but the honourable member for Leichhardt is recognised by everybody in this House as a fine member of the Parliament. But he unwittingly got up and did exactly what was expected of him, just as the ALP members on their benches are doing what is expected of them by the organisers of this Moratorium. They are all unfortunately duped into doing what is wanted of them. People are urged to provide false forms, false birth dates and other sorts of things which I will not refer to so as not to give the organisers the publicity they want me to give them. Persons ring up, ask a person in the Department to answer the phone and then walk off without hanging up the phone, for the purpose of tying up the phones in the Department. Is this the sort of thing that the ALP endorses? Trying to bring to a standstill a Department of State? Honourable members opposite cannot say: We are in support of the philosophy of Vietnam but not these other things on the side' because these other things were decided on 19th July and the unanimous endorsement of the Vietnam Moratorium by the Victorian executive was on 6th August. The same situation can be followed through. 
The Federal Executive had no confidence in the Parliamentary Labor Party to mount an opposition campaign against our policies. Instead of that it resorts to these other things as an alternative government prepared to ignore centuries of tradition, to ignore the interests of the public servants whose duty it is to carry out the law, to frustrate them and to frustrate the processes of government, and then say that this is democracy. The other thing which the Federal Executive did was to ask the Leader of the Opposition to talk with the ACTU. This was before the protest rallies on the Budget, lt has echoes but it is one of these curious things of which the echoes are before the event. Why would the ALP want to talk with  Mr Hawke, President  of the ACTU, if it were not to achieve industrial action to serve a political purpose? If that is the attitude of the ALP it stands condemned. The philosophy of the Vietnam Moratorium is to ignore the fact that in this Parliament are members who are elected to come here to debate, put issues, resist issues and vote on them. Every range of opinion in our country is represented here but the philosophy of the Moratorium is to take decisions out of this House and put them in the streets where the vocal minority is supreme, not in the ballot box and not in this chamber. 
The crowning joke of the whole thing is that the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  is declared black. Have honourable members ever heard such nonsense? This group, which describes itself as defenders of liberty, defenders of each differing view, has at times decided that it is a coaltion of opposition opinion. Ah, but let anybody say something that the authoritarianism of the driving force does not agree with. These people say: 'Our campaign is only against authoritianism by others, not by us'. In consequence the honourable member for Wills has to attempt to defend himself, with the support of the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  and, I am sure, others in this place. The final point which must be made is that those people in this country who oppose our policies on Vietnam will find ways of expressing their opinion. No matter how genuine they are in their opposition they ought not to be deceived into believing that the way to express that opposition is, by their physical presence, providing support for the organisers of this Vietnam Moratorium who claim to represent people who indeed are totally opposed to the way in which those organisers would conduct their affairs if they ever came to power, ft is a tragic thing that some people who support the campaign do so with the best of motive. The honourable member for Grayndler said that the purpose of the Moratorium is to stop lives being lost in Vietnam. That is how it is put to decent people. But that is not its purpose at all. The purpose of the Vietnam Moratorium is to take decision making out of the ballot boxes, out of this Parliament, out of the debates, and put it in the streets where the vocal minority can be supreme. But it cannot be supreme here. This is the democracy that we ought to defend. 
 Mr Speaker,  I ask for the indulgence of the House. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  asked me a question this morning during question time. In my answer to him I read from a rather bad photostat copy of a letter. While reading it I realised that I was reading the wrong part. In reading the Hansard greens I find that what I thought at the time was the fact. Therefore I ask for the indulgence of the House to read that part of the letter which I ought to have read rather than what I did read. This will then make the Hansard report more understandable. 
The point made by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  had escaped me. I would like honourable members to express a view on this so that the matter can be put in positive language. Let me tell the Committee the way I see the matter. There is provision in the Constitution for a quorum of one-third. There is provision in the Standing Orders that if on the counting of a division fewer than one-third of the members vote then it is declared not to be a decision taken on the division of the House and the House is adjourned until the next day of sitting. If the terms of the Bill are passed without any amendment the quorum would be reduced to one-fifth and by necessary implication, with the quorum reduced to one-fifth, the provision under the Standing Orders would be reduced to one-fifth. My recollection is that in the history of the Parliament there have been only 3 occasions on which there was not a quorum present on a division. On each of those occasions a division was called on the question that the House do now adjourn. What happened was that the adjournment debate was proceeding and honourable members got tired of it and went home. When the question was put that the House do now adjourn there was a division and there were not enough members to record the result of the division. The debate was adjourned to the next day anyway. They are the only occasions, to my recollection, on which it has happened. 
The reality is that in the past there have never been fewer than one-third of members present on a division, except for those rare occasions the last of which was 2 or 3 decades ago. I do not see any difficulty about this amendment because this has never been an issue. I remind honourable members that on 12th June at the end of the last session, members of this House wanting to catch aeroplanes departed from the House leaving the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  and the 
Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Sinclair)  having a heated debate about a statement on the sinking of a ship. That is as I understand it. There were very few people here. 
 I am not being critical. I am stating the facts. On that occasion if I had been required to keep one-third of honourable members here many honourable members could not have gone home. As I understand it, this is exactly the argument being put by those honourable members in favour of the proposition. As against that, the other side of the argument is that when the House decides to adopt a quorum the quorum should be the quorum for all purposes. I do not think honourable members are going to be persuaded by arguments one way or the other on this matter.  Mr Deputy Chairman,  what I wish to do is to state the facts clearly. If the Bill is passed, on a division only one-fifth of the members of the House will need to vote. That is a quorum. If the amendment is accepted on a division one-third of the members would be required to vote. The issues are very clear. All honourable members know the issues and we should vote on the matter as soon as possible. 
That for a division to be declared carried onethird of the whole number of members must be present or no decision of the 'House shall be considered to have been arrived at by such division. 
Would it clear up the point raised by the honourable member for Adelaide if the honourable member for Wills were prepared to put his amendment in that form? 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Dmr)')  - Is the honourable member for Wills prepared to accept that proposal? 
Amendment - by leave - amended. 
I have no knowledge of the allegations made by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. If he will provide me with the man's name and any other information for which he can warrant I will make appropriate inquiries. I am unaware of anybody undergoing a penalty in the New South Wales penal system for failing to render service, lt may be that the person is in prison for some other breach of the National Service Act. I would like the honourable member to specify the breach. If he will give me that information I will make immediate inquiries and let him know the result. 
I can only reiterate the word used by the honourable gentleman. It is incongruous. The national objectives of this country must constantly be to increase our gross national product at constant prices. In order to do this, we must improve our productivity performance. To have a good productivity performance, we must have the co-operation of the entire people in the work force and in management running through from operatives, semi-skilled, craftsmen, and lower levels of management to the board room. 
There is no doubt that a bad industrial situation deteriorates from the capacity to achieve a good productivity performance. 
While our productivity in some industries is quite high, overall our productivity performance has not been as good as some other countries. The truth of the matter lies, without any doubt, in the fact that our standards of living do depend upon good productivity performance. I would hope that the campaign currently running would lead to a greater knowledge of productivity and a greater state of mind to achieve it. I would hope that the Labor Party would thoroughly endorse it and would lend its support to productivity drive. I would hope that the trade unions, which have indicated through the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the General Secretary of the Waterside Workers Federation that they recognise that productivity is most important, would improve the atmosphere. 
As far as the specific question is concerned, it is not possible merely to measure the loss of money from a strike in terms of the identifiable money. That follows through in prices throughout the entire community. Without any doubt again, there is absolutely no value in having increased money wages if the money wages cannot buy more goods. These are our national objectives and ought to be pursued as the national objective by all people in the community. The incongruity of trade unions pointing to the different things and pretending they are connected can only be described in the words used by the honourable member. 
 I declare that the Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1970-71 and the Appropriation Bill (No. 2) 1970-71 are urgent Bills. 
Question put: 
That the Appropriation Bills be considered urgent Bills. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 

<graphic href="069131197009151_13_0.jpg"></graphic>

Allotment of Time 
I move: 
That the time allowed for the consideration of the Bills be as follows: 

<graphic href="069131197009151_13_0.jpg"></graphic>

Honourable members will see from the schedule that insofar as it has been possible to do so the times have been distributed between those groups of departments which normally have the most discussion, which have 5 hour allotments, and other groups which have allotments of 24 hours and 2 hours. One group which is made up of the Repatriation Department and the Department of Social Services may attract more speakers. However, Bills which deal with repatriation and social services will come into this House for debate and passage next Thursday. I expect that those Bills will be through the House by dinner time on Thursday. It is necessary for a tight schedule to be followed to enable the Bills to go through this House and through the other place and to receive the Governor-General's assent so that payments can be made at the determined date. Apart from the 3 hour period for Repatriation and Social Services the alloted times for other groupings are as follows: External Affairs, 5 hours; Customs, Primary Industry and Trade and Industry, 5 hours; Defence Services, 5 hours; and  2i  hour periods for Civil Aviation, Education and Science, Health, National Development, Postmaster-General's Department and Shipping and Transport. The remainder will have 2 hours, except the Department of the Interior which will have only 1 hours. 
The allotment of times has been decided upon after discussions with my Whips and after considering the times that have been taken up in the past during estimates debates. I think that what has been decided on is a fair distribution of time. The total time is 51 i hours. This compares with the total times which have been taken over preceding years, which have usually been around the low 50s in hours. Of course, the use of the guillotine in estimates debates is a very old method of handling such debates. The guillotine was used by the last Labor Government. It has been used on many occasions. 
I do not know whether you would describe the Labor Party as a revolutionary party or whether it is of the French variety, the Italian variety or perhaps the USSR variety. If it is revolutionary you have made it so. I am talking about the Labor Party administration which was last in office. That administration used the guillotine. 
You did not win any prizes either. The guillotine will be adopted on this occasion to keep the total amount of time to 51 i hours. This total conforms to actual discussion times in the past. Therefore it is not a guillotine, as it is usually applied, to cut down debate quite markedly. The purpose is to the contrary. If there is no guillotine honourable members do not know for how long an individual group of estimates will run. The consequence is that if discussion of a group of estimates goes on and on the time available for other estimates is cut down to the disadvantage of honourable members wanting to discuss them. If it is necessary, as it frequently is when there is no guillotine, to put the question 'That the question be. now put', an extra division is required. All honourable members know that the counting of a division averages about 8 minutes. If there were 10 closures - the Opposition traditionally votes against a closure - it would mean 10 unnecessary divisions, and 10 honourable members would not have been able to speak. 
It is therefore much more convenient for all members of the House to know precisely at what times the questions will be put  on  each of the estimates. I emphasise that I do not believe this procedure will cut down time at all. Some discussion took place between the Opposition and myself on this matter. I do not suggest that there was agreement between the Opposition and myself, but there was some consultation. Insofar as we were able to do so. we did allot the time between the separate estimates according to discussion. I think it is fair to say that the Opposition indicated to me that it thought the total amount of time was reasonable and fair. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth Industrial Court has ordered a respondent to pay the costs of an unsuccessful applicant in two inquiries initiated pursuant to sections 159 and 160 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. 
The cases were (a) Amalgamated Postal Workers Union ex parte P. P. Lowe and J. W. Downing and (b) the Amalgamated Engineering Union (Australian Section) ex parte J. J. A. Jutte. 
In (a) each applicant was awarded costs of 25 guineas and in (b) the applicant was awarded costs of $1,217.52. 

 Mr Justice Dunphy. 
The answer to the honour able member's question is as follows: (1)(a) Yes. See the judgment of the High Court in The Queen v. Dunlop Rubber Australia Limited, ex parte Federated Miscellaneous Workers Union of Australia (97 C.L.R., 71). 
I am advised that a search of the  records of organisations registered under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act has revealed no instance of an Industrial Registrar consenting to an eligibility rule which extended an organisation's right to enrol members to industries or callings excluded by the description of industry rule. I am advised that prior to the decision of the High Court referred to in (a) above, a succession of changes to the eligibility and industry rules of the Australian Workers Union produced that effect. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1)-(4) The answer to the honourable member's question is contained in the following tables: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As the honourable member will know it is not the policy of Ibis Government to disclose the type of information for which the honourable member asks. 
Fisheries in the Gulf of Carpentaria (Question No. 1472)  Mr Whitlam  asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
What progress has been made iri the discussions between Commonwealth and Queensland officers in developing a uniform fisheries policy in the Gulf of Carpentaria since his answer to me cm 19 August 1969 (Hansard, page 425). 
What administrative and legislative changes have been made by the Commonwealth and Queensland in respect of the fisheries in the Gulf of Carpentaria since his answer to me on 26 September 1969 (Hansard, page 2113). 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in- Parliament assembled. The humble petition of electors of Bruce respectfully showeth: 
That they are gravely concerned at what they consider to be the adverse effect on moral standards in the Australian community of the increasing portrayal and description of obscenity, sexual licence, promiscuity and violence in films, books, magazines, plays and, to a lesser extent, television and radio programmes. 
That their concern arises partly from the fact that historians, such as. J. D. Unwin and Arnold Toynbee, have shown that nearly all nations which have perished have done so because of internal moral decay; and partly because obscenity and indecency are contrary to the teachings of Christianity which is the acknowledged religion of more than 80 per cent of Australians, besides being 'part and parcel of the law of the land' (Quick and Garran in Commentaries on the Australian Constitution', page 951); and 
That, in accordance with the findings of the Australian Gallup Poll, published in the Melbourne Herald on 14 November 1969, the majority of Australian citizens want censorship either maintained or increased - 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that honourable members of the House of Representatives will seek to ensure that Commonwealth legislation bearing on censorship of films, literatutre and radio and television programmes is so framed and so administered as to preserve sound moral standards in the community. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
These advertisements are placed by the Department of Labour and National Service through a Treasury body which co-ordinates all Commonwealth advertisements. They are placed with all public media which will accept them. The Government desires to broadcast the advertisements as widely as possible in order to notify people who have the obli gation to serve. It appears that there is in most of the States a radio station controlled by the Australian Labor Party. My inquiries indicate that all those radio stations accept advertisements notifying the general public of the liability to serve and they are paid for them. There have been no discussions entered into by the radio stations with any member of the Government along the lines mentioned in the honourable member's question. 
I do remember the question asked yesterday, 1 did make inquiries and 1 am now able to provide some information. But before doing so I must draw the honourable member's attention to his misuse of the term 'conscientious objector'. A person who is a conscientious objector has no obligation to serve at all but to become a conscientious objector a person needs to make application to the court so that the court can determine the matter. As the honourable member will recall last month there came into effect amendments to regulations which will enable me to refer matters of the status of conscientious objectors to a court for determination without the person actually making an application when he has indicated by letter either to me or my Department that he claims to hold a conscientious belief. It is totally erroneous to give any person the term 'conscientious objector" merely because he claims it. A person cannot be regarded as a conscientious objector merely because he claims that he is. There is no country whose laws make that provision and I am sure the honourable member would accuse the Government of absolute irresponsibility in the administration of the Act or the drawing up of the Act if there was any attempt to give that status to somebody merely because he claims it. 
Coming now to the facts of the case, I had inquiries made and I have been informed of certain things. I am informed that the man concerned is David Keane, who registered for national service in July 1967. After registration he moved several times between South Australia and New South Wales. He was called for medical examination on 5 separate occasions and failed to report. Following the last occasion he failed to report for medical examination he was prosecuted on 2nd September 1970. He was fined $40 with costs, in default 31 days imprisonment. He refused to pay and I am informed that he did not want time to pay. The magistrate imprisoned him there and then. He was also imprisoned for 7 days, apparently to be served concurrently with the other sentence, because he refused to enter into a recognisance to attend for a medical examination. I am informed that after going on a hunger strike he was seen by the gaol psychiatrist and removed to a psychiatric ward at Prince Henry Hospital on 5th September 1970. More recently he has been transferred to the prison ward of the hospital. I am investigating whether at this stage a Medical Board can be arranged to determine his fitness for service. 
It is certainly true that a great number of demands that are being made on various plants throughout the 
Commonwealth contain a demand for 4 weeks annual leave. It is equally true that history discloses that when there is a campaign of this kind, once a claim is granted in one area it is followed up in another area and usually the fact that it has been granted by one plant is the very vehicle which is the basis of the demand in other areas. I have been very concerned about the increase in the national wages bill which would result if these claims were granted and I have had in my mind over a period of time the figures as to the cost. In fact, I am able to tell the House that in costing the matter one has to take account of the way in which the production would be maintained at the same rate. Production can be maintained either by employees working more overtime or by new employees being employed. In a tight labour market it is not possible to employ entirely new labour for the purpose. Therefore a great deal of overtime would be worked. The solution probably would be a mixture of the two, but if production were maintained by employing new labour exclusively the cost would be $340m. This would mean an increase in unit cost of about 2.2 per cent. It follows therefore that prices would also be increased by at least 2.2 per cent. If production were maintained, on the other hand, entirely by the working of overtime it would be more expensive; the figure would be $5 10m, which would increase unit cost by about 3.3 per cent. This unit cost increase would increase prices. 
I am asked by interjection whether 1 am opposed to it. 1 respond very quickly in this way: When there are advances in Australia the way in which the benefits can be received is either by increased pay or by better conditions, and it is a matter for the persons making the claim to decide whether they want increased wages or better conditions. 
For the information of honourable members, I present Convention No. 47 concerning the 40 hour week adopted by the International Labour Conference at its 19th session on 4th June 1 935. Subject to approval by His Excellency the Governor-General, the instrument of ratification of this convention will be lodged with the Director-General, of the International Labour Office as soon as practicable. 
In the first half of 1970 there were more disputes, although fewer days were lost, than in the first 6 months of 1969. In those 6 months a total of  something  more than 1,300,000 man-days were lost, while the  comparable  figure for the first 6 months of 1970 was 1,100,000. These figures seem to  indicate  'that disputes are becoming more frequent but that the duration of strikes is being  reduced.  I must add, though, that in the first 6 months of last year what has become known as the O'Shea affair occurred, in connection with which there was a tremendous number of strikes. That built up the figures for that period, But even without that occurrence the number of disputes has been greater this year. The loss of wages has amounted to about $14m. That in itself is a big loss but worse than that, we must remember, these strikes add to costs and these are reflected in increased prices. It is also a fact that in an industrial relation situation of this kind it is difficult to achieve the productivity advance that we would like to achieve. This  year  there has also been quite a marked increase in the number of strikes having a political base. I  refer  to strikes called not to serve any industrial purpose but to serve a political purpose. Strikes have been called, for example, to express opposition to the Budget. Others have been called  in  support of the Moratorium Campaign. Stoppages have been called even for the purpose of expressing opposition to the Greek Government. What an employer can do in response to a demand by a union in such circumstances I do not know. It is impossible for an employer to cope with a situation of that kind. To resort to strike action for political purposes is a gross misuse of industrial power and  is  contrary to the institutionalised status of the trade union movement in Australia. I hope that this is something from which  we will  be free in the future. 
in reply - I point out in answering the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  'that at the time I moved the previous motion I was acting in accordance with all the information I then had. Subsequently the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly),  who is  Chairman  of the Public Works Committee, indicated to me that the Committee has a heavy programme of work. I understand that it is to , travel to Western Australia and also to Darwin. He provided me with the dates on which he could see it would be necessary for the Committee to sit. That period runs until 16th October. I thought it better to seek the agreement of the House for the period up to 16th October because  Mr Kelly  as  Chairman  could see that programme clearly until then, rather than ask the House for its consent for the Committee to sit for the rest of the session during sitting times of the House. In this way the House can have before it a more direct knowledge of how frequently the Committee is sitting. I think that was proper. 
I now indicate to the 'honourable gentleman that subject to the work load of that Committee and any representations made to me by the honourable member for Wakefield I may very well be asking the House to agree to the procedure to operate until the end of the session. I have said that for the honourable member's information. The central point he makes is whether it is proper to examine the limitations of all committees and not merely the entitlement of the Public Works Committee to sit while the House is sitting. A great deal depends upon the quorum of the House. While the quorum is one-third we could not have all joint statutory committees - standing or select committees - meeting while 'the house it sitting. We could not then muster a quorum. 
This is an indication of why we need the quorum size reduced and why I had to discuss with the honourable member for Wakefield whether I would move this motion and why I limited it to the period ending 16th October. We still have the requirement of a one-third quorum. While a committee is away, although its members are paired in terms of votes, the Government may have to muster a quorum, which is its responsibility. Therefore there is difficulty in allowing committees to be away from the House, even to conduct very important business. That is a very strong reason why the quorum size should be reduced from one-third to one-fifth. 
I do not of my own knowledge know of any committee that may meet while the House is sitting. 
I apologise. I must again look at the terms of appointment of select committees because I have been nurturing the idea that select committees could not do so. We now have 3 or 4 select committees. If they all sat at the same time we would have difficulty with a quorum. I must revise the terms of appointment of select committees. 
I will do that. I thank the honourable member for McMillan for drawing it to my attention. 
The Public Works Committee is a statutory joint committee and it is that with which we are dealing at the moment. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
There is a demarcation dispute at present in Queensland in which the members of the Queensland Colliery Employees Union and the Australian Workers Union are concerned. Demarcation disputes are the vehicle for a great deal of inter-union internecine struggles but I do not think it would help if I made any comments on it at the moment. This matter has to be resolved between the parties and I think that the Australian Workers Union has shown in the past a capacity to look after its own interests notwithstanding what difficulties may be presented to it by the honourable member for Hindmarsh. 
Yes, estimates have been made and, as I pointed out in the answer to the question regarding 4 weeks annual leave, the cost depends upon the method adopted by employers to maintain the volume of production. There are 2 ways of doing this or a combination of each. One way is to employ new labour, and that is not easy when there is a tight employment situation. The other way is to work overtime. The cost of working overtime is greater than the cost of employing new labour. I think that probably the method adopted would be a combination of each way. The estimates are: If employers sought to maintain the volume of production by employing new labour the cost would be between $ 1,400m and $2,000m a year. If they did it by working overtime it would be between $2, 100m and $2,900m a year. To put it into percentage terms the increased unit cost for the first way - that is, by employing new labour - would be between 9 per cent and 13 per cent. For the second way - by working overtime - increase of the unit cost would be between 134 per cent and 19 per cent. As the unit cost is the prime factor in prices it could be expected that there would be an increase of something like those percentages in prices overall. 
The honourable gentleman and the House will recall that I publicly stated in June last thatthe regulations would be amended to enable me to refer cases to magistrates where a person claimed to be a conscientious objector but who refused to make application in accordance with the Act. I told the House that in due course the regulations would be amended.  At  that time one man was in a unique position. This was  Mr Ross,  who was in prison at Sale. Because he had been convicted and imprisoned he no longer had a liability to serve. The amendment of the regulations deals with persons who have a  liability  to serve. It was  therefore  decided that so far as it was possible to do so we should reproduce the same opportunity for  Mr Ross  to have his claim that be was a conscientious objector tested as would be available to other people in the future. However, people in the future would be referred to a magistrate and if dissatisfied they could go on to appeal to a judge. To make sure that this matter would be disposed of as expeditiously as possible a judge was appointed to inquire into this case. However, the judge was not bound by any rules of procedure. Therefore, he proceeded in the way in which he opted to proceed at the time. 
I emphasise that  Mr Ross  was in a unique position and that the circumstance will not arise again in the future. There will be one of 3 ways in which a man's conscientious objection claims will be determined in the future. Firstly, he may make application in the normal way and his case will be determined. Secondly, his case will be referred by me to a magistrate in which case, if he co-operates, the magistrate can determine the matter. Thirdly, if upon prosecution before a magistrate the man raises a conscientious objection, counsel appearing for the Crown will be instructed to invite the magistrate forthwith to determine the matter. Thirdly, if upon objection. Therefore, any man who claims to be a conscientious objector must have 3 opportunities to put his belief to the test. In any case a person claiming a conscientious objection will certainly be able when appearing before the court to have the matter resolved by means of the third alternative that I mentioned. So the matter should be determined in 1 of the 3 ways. 
So far as the future is concerned, I expect that the normal procedures will be conformed with and that there will be a hearing in open court and on sworn evidence. That is my expectation. There is no reason for me to expect otherwise because, as I emphasise,  Mr Ross  was in a unique position. 
I cannot tell the honourable gentleman the date on which I approved of the regulations. Can somebody help me with the date? 
It would be about that date. I accept the date as being 20th August. 1 donot remember the precise date. Then the honourable gentleman proceeded with his question in a way which rather indicated that be had misunderstood what 1 bad said. Tomorrow I will provide him with a copy of today's Hansard so that he can have the full details. There was no misjustice to  Mr Ross;  indeed, the very reverse of it.  Mr Ross  at all times had the opportunity to have his claim to be a conscientious objector tested before he was convicted. He refused to take that course, and at that time there was no power which I or anybody else possessed to refer mutters to a magistrate for determination. That power was granted by the amended regulations which were approved on 20th August, as I understand it. 
 I move: 
That Government Business shall take precedence over General Business tomorrow. 
The Standing Orders provide that on alternate Thursdays when the House is sitting General Business shall take precedence over Government Business. It is a long standing practice of the House that while the main Appropriation Bills are being debated - we are now at the stage of considering the Estimates of the main Appropriation Bill - it is the wish of the House to go on to Government Business which, of course, is the Estimates debate. This has been the practice for a long time and this motion gives effect to that practice. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I apologise to the honourable member for not hearing every point made in his question. 1 assure him that I will look at it closely immediately after question time. I will be most anxious to read the question. I will be most anxious also to have the honourable gentleman provide me with the name of the national service registrant. I undertake that my Department will then immediately examine the matter and take whatever action is necessary. Under the provisions of the Act a national service registrant is not to be discriminated against on the ground of liability to register or, after registration, liability to serve. T will make sure that the matter is pursued. 
The  answer to the hon ourable member's question is as follows: See Answer to Question 1831. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
See Answer to Question 1831. 
 The answer to the hon ourable member's question is as follows: See Answer to Question 1831. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
See Answer to Question 1831. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
See Answer to Question 1831. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
See Answer to Question 1831. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Set Answer to Question 1831. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
See Answer to Question 1831. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honour- ablemember'squestionisasfollows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The honourable member will be aware that apart from hisseries of questions Nos 1831-1868, he has asked  me  on notice more than 150 questions this year. Further as the great majority of questions each contain a number of separate enquiries, he  will  appreciate  that  a considerable workloadis  placed  on officers of my Department to provide  and  collate 'information required to 
Answer  the honourable member's questions with the care he would expect. Overall,  I  have provided answers to  125  questions on notice to date and  of  these,  107  were answers to questions asked by the honourable member. By way of comparison, the questions  on  notice to the Minister for Labour  and  National Service in  1968  numbered  29 and  in  1969, 41. I  have asked the Secretary of my Department to ensurethat the information required to answer these questions is obtained and collated  as  soon as possible but so as not  to  excessively divert the attention of. officers  from  the  other  important responsibilities which it is  their  duty to discharge. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I supplied an answer to question No. 690 on 22nd September 1970 (Hansard pages 1489-90). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the hon ourable member's question is as follows: See Answer to Question 1831. 
The answer to the hon ourable member's question is as follows: See Answer to Question 1831. 
The answer to the hon ourable member's question is as follows: See Answer to Question 1831. 
The answer to the hon ourable member's question is as follows: See Answer to Question 1831. 
The answer to the. honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I supplied an answer to question No. 848 on 22nd September 1970, (Hansard 1490). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the hon ourable member's question is as follows: See Answer to Question 1831. 
The answer to the hon ourable member's question is as follows: See Answer to Question 1831. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Presumably, the honourable member is referring to the national agreement on 'Principles for guidance in establishing and using effective procedures for avoiding and settling industrial disputes' arrived at between the A.C.T.U., the National Employers' Policy Committee and my colleague, the Attorney-General, and myself. As the title of the agreement suggests, it relates only to principles that all 'parties considered should be applied in drawing up detailed procedures to meet the needs of particular industries and establishments. Detailed matters such as those referred to in the honourable member's question will be open to consideration by parties drawing up detailed procedures in light of the principles agreed to. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I would draw the attention of the honourable member to the answer to question No. 1000. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In his Thirteenth Annual Report (for the year ended 13th August, 1969) the  President  of the Commonwealth Concilaition and Arbitration Commission said: 
On the other band factors of our own have an obvious effect on our industrial relationships and the incidence of strikes. One is the almost ideological disputation about the so-called penal sections of the Act. Although it is an industrial subject, it is also a political one and it is very difficult to divorce the industrial from the political content. Whether, in the ultimate, the question of statutory sanctions should be regarded as a political rather than an industrial relations question takes a lot of deciding for each person concerned, but in the events which have occurred in my area, it has been handled politically, and those who have thus bandied it would certainly havehad regard to the industrial consequences of any political solution. Nevertheless whilst the matter was being bandied politically, an application came . before a single member of the Commission, which I directed should be dealt withbyafullbench.Thedecisionofthis  full  bench followed a normalhearing and was reached on the submissions made in the Court room and not outside it The good thing about all this was that the Commission demonstrated it could go ahead with its procedures in the normal way without any suggestion of it or any of its members becoming involved in party politics, even though feeling was running hot in - the political area. I have given a great deal of thought to whether or not I should, pursuant to section 70, give any indication of what I think the policy of the legislation should be in regard to sanctions. I have come to the conclusion particularly having regard to what I have mentioned, that, unless invited, I should at least on this occasion leave this entirely tothe Parliament, without expressing opinions one way or the other'. 
and (3) As a matter of principle, if ( had had any discussion with the  President  on this matter, 1 would not disclose the terms of it publicly. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Two; one in New South Wales and one in Victoria. Social work and related disciplines in the Department are currently under review. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (l)-(2) Unlike I.L.O. Conventions, the ratification of which creates a legal obligation to take all necessary steps to give effect to their provisions, 
I.L.ORecommendationsarenotopentocertifica-  tion but are intended to provide general guidance in the development of national policy, legislation and practice. Some subjects are of such a nature as to be more appropriate for the adoption of a Recommendation rather than a Convention. The Australian Government and a number of others considered that the adoption of a Recommendation would be the appropriate way of dealing with the subject of discrimination in employment and occupation and, therefore, abstained in the voting on the adoption of Convention No.111 - Discrimination (Employment and Occupation), 1958. After the Convention had been adopted, the Australian Government delegates voted for the adoption of the Recommendation to which the honourable member has referred. This Recommendation supplements the Convention by indicating possible ways in which the general principles set down in the Convention might be applied in legislation, collective agreements, etc. I can inform the honourable member that the general principles set down in the Convention relating to discrimination on the basis of sex, are substantially complied with as regards Commonwealth employees. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I would draw the attention of the honourable member to the answer to question No. 1000. 
It is essential that employer and union representatives conduct their relationships with one another in a responsible fashion. 
I would refer the honourable member to section 3 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. 
We listened to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  tonight with some trepidation. We thought that in would come a man on a charger with a long lance, who would drive a wound into the Government's side. There was no charger, there was no lance and it was an awful calamity for him. He started off by saying: 'When Labor comes to power.' Two interesting facets about this When Labor comes to power' appear. When it will be is anybody's guess. We are not all possessed of a crystal ball. The second facet to which I refer is the extraordinary modesty contained in the words of the Leader of the Opposition. We have become accustomed to the honourable gentleman at every opportunity on the public media saying, pointing to himself: T, 
Whitlam, when I am Prime Minister- '. 
This is the man of destiny, so anointed, but the modesty that he suddenly adopted fell like the sham it was at a later point when he reverted to the usual form: 'When I am Prime Minister and when I am Foreign Minister.' So spake the Leader of the Opposition, the man of destiny anointed by the Almighty, the man who mixes with the greats and in mixing with the greats puts into his language words which you.  Mr Speaker,  have yourself described as words, that, although not unparliamentary, are words that should not have been used here. But the modesty which he put up at first and which fell now comes to the fore, because to pursue his aim of becoming Prime Minister above all things he is prepared to encourage young men to submit themselves to punishment and to public rejection. I do not admire this attitude in any man but I find it reprehensible out of the mouth- 
It is reprehensible when those words come out of the mouth of the loyal Leader of  Her  Majesty's Opposition'. This provides the opportunity for us to examine the man who spoke last, the Leader of the Opposition, making the allegations he did against the Prime Minister. The honourable gentleman has said a lot of things which do not bear repetition, but let us come to the point of the motion. So far as I am aware today in this debate not until the Leader of the Opposition stood up was the motion examined for its words, and the Leader of the Opposition then proceeded to misquote them and to misconstrue them. The words of the motion are: 
That the Prime Minister no longer possesses the confidence of the House in that he allowed a faked photograph to be tabled in the House. 
The accusation has not been justified. Indeed there has been nothing put to show that this was a faked photograph other than the allegation; and the repetition of the allegation makes it no more so. The honourable gentleman used a lot of alliteration about cropped, clipped and so on but not a single thing did he put to try to make his point that it was faked. I remind honourable gentlemen that we have heard a lot about the faked photograph, so called. The closest that anybody has got to showing that there was a faked photograph was when the Leader of the Opposition said that the Prime Minister had said that the Leader of the Opposition had stood under a Vietcong flag. That is the closest anybody has got to alleging a fake. At very worst that is only a wrong interpretation by the Prime Minister, for two things remain uncontradicted: One is that the Leader of the Opposition was there and the second is that the Vietcong flags were there. 
The next point to be drawn out of the words of this motion are that the Prime Minister allowed a faked photograph to be tabled. There has been no allegation that the Prime Minister faked it. The allegation is there clear for everybody to encompass. It is the allegation that the Australian News and Information Bureau faked the photograph. We have not heard a word from the Opposition as to who in the Bureau did it or for what purpose he did it. The so called censure is that the Prime Minister, finding a photograph relevant to the issues, tabled it. He is supposed to be censured for that. What madness is this? How far do you get from the realities of the issue? The accusation is then quite clearly that the News and Information Bureau faked the photograph. 
If honourable gentlemen opposite do not mean that, why did they put their motion in those terms? If they put the motion in those terms, why do not they argue for it? It is because they want to avoid the reality of the issue, and the reality of the issue, without any doubt, has nothing to do with the photograph at all. That is not the purpose of the debate today. The purpose of the debate has been to introduce a diversion, but the tactic of diversion will not succeed because it must be exposed. The Leader of the Opposition wants to divert public attention from the statement he made which started this. 
Of course if I were the Leader of the Opposition I would very much want that, but it will hang as an albatross around his neck for the rest of his political career. It was an outrageous thing to say, and he knew it to be so. He was embarrassed by it being pursued on Thursday and again on Friday. He had to find a tactic of diversion, and this is what has been attempted today. But there is another reason - a very real reason - for diversion. The parliamentary members of the Labor Party liked the statement no more than did we on this side of the House. The Leader of the Opposition wants to divert attention from the statement because he knows it is diversive in his own Party. He knows it is diversive in his own Party because of the derision with which it was received by many responsible members of the Labor Party outside this Parliament and those of them who are responsible inside this Parliament. The derision of the public was felt by all of us over the weekend. That derision was properly based. That is the reason for the diversive tactic which is being pursued. The Leader of the Opposition wants to divert attention away from his statement. 
Let me remind the House of the words which the Leader of the Opposition used in his statement: 
I told the Caucus that if I were asked by  a  man who objected to the Vietnam war as to the course he should take I would give this advice: He should register and at the time of doing so give written advice that if he was inducted and ordered to go to Vietnam he would not obey that order. If he was ballotted in then he should present himself for his medical examination and if found fit and should be inducted, then he should give written advice that if he was ordered to go to Vietnam he would not obey the order. 
That is .what the honourable gentleman said, and that is what he wants to escape from. But relevant to what we have been saying today is another gem of a sentence which no doubt the honourable gentleman has forgotten. Let me remind him of that gem of a sentence, lt is the final sentence on the page of the printed document. It states: 
Never have I said that a man should not obey orders in Vietnam. 
That was last Thursday. But what did he say on Monday night? 
I will tell the honourable member exactly what he said. On Monday night the Leader of the Opposition said that a young man on service in Vietnam who decided it was a bad war should notify his commanding officer that be cannot conscientiously continue. In other words, the clear statement is there: He advised young men in Vietnam to disobey orders. How does that line up with his words 'Never have I said that a man should not obey orders in Vietnam'? Not only did he shift the geography from Australia to Vietnam on Monday night; he very seriously elevated the level of condemnation of the young man's fighting comrades, if he should follow that advice. He seriously elevated the likelihood and severity of punishment which would flow from it. In order to pursue his aim to be the Prime Minister as he so frequently says, the Leader of the Opposition is prepared to submit young men to that sort of compunction. 
A very serious dilemma confronts the Leader of the Opposition, because in order to achieve the Prime Ministership - he constantly says 'When I, Whitlam, am Prime Minister' - he has to capture the left represented by some of the .honourable members in this House. He has to capture the left in the parliamentary Labor Party and the left outside this Parliament. That is what he has to do. He is putting himself in hostage. At the same time as he is capturing the left, submitting himself to the hostageship of the left, he has to appeal to the responsible element in this country. It is a dilemma that is not resolvable; the two cannot at any time be reconciled. That is what the Leader of the Opposition has been trying to do. That is why he is in his present trouble. He is trying to reconcile the irreconcilable. The left, the fringe element, are not reconcilable with the responsible people of this country or of his own Party. That is the reason for the diversionary tactic which the Leader of lbc Opposition has pursued. The diversionary tactic adopted today acknowledges the gross error he made last week. But more than that, it puts the seal of condemnation upon the irresponsibility of making that statement. That is why the diversionary tactic is being pursued. But even the diversionary tactic was fooled with today. . 
Honourable members opposite moved a motion which relates to bringing before the bar of the chamber the chief of the Australian News and Information Bureau. They knew that it was an improper motion to put and they knew that there has not been a single allegation in the day's events that could possibly warrant it. Having, by taking that wrong course, forced the Government to refuse to suspend standing orders, they could have tactically then ceased, and at that time they could have accused the Government in some florid and suitable language of not facing up to the situation. But they did move the motion. The motion was badly worded. It accuses the News and Information Bureau, and on that basts accuses an unknown, unnamed and unidentified person in the Bureau of doing something which is called cropping or clipping. The word 'faked' is added to the end of the motion. On that basis honourable members opposite say that the Prime Minister should be censured for tabling the photograph. 
Honourable members opposite adopted that tactic. They moved the motion and we have debated it. We have exposed it for what it lacks. We have brought the issue back to where it belongs - the irresponsibility of the Leader of the Opposition who is recklessly willing to encourage men to submit themselves to severe punishment, to the condemnation of their fighting comrades, and in the process to elevate himself to the post that he so dearly wants. The tactics have been wrong. Not only would he sacrifice these young men to the fate that he encourages them to seek; he would also sacrifice the public servant - unknown and in globo - whom he condemns for something which has not been quite clearly put to us. . 
The other day he spoke about the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns).  The honourable member for Lalor with his great organising capacity had taken over the Moratorium movement in order to make it a success. The honourable member for Lalor represents the Left - I am sure he would not deny it - to which the Leader of the Opposition has given himself as hostage, to achieve his ambition. The honourable member for Lalor invited to Australia to join in that Moratorium representatives coming from the foes of our fighting men and at that time the Leader of the Opposition rejected him in grandiloquent terms. Patronisingly he said to the honourable member for Lalor that he would not go along with it. But what a curious turn of the wheel, for today who did the Leader of the Opposition rely upon to support him? The honourable member for Lalor. And what tremendous support it was. The honourable member for Lalor does not , forget easily. He came to the table to support the Leader of the Opposition and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard),  who moved the motion, and how did he describe it? He described it as trifling. The whole matter about which the motion was put, according to the honourable member, was merely trifling.  His  exact words, as I wrote them down, were: 'It is trivia'. Instead of 'it is trivia' it could have been rephrased more properly as 'it is a protective device'. But we are entitled to expose it and it is our duty to do so. The Leader of the Opposition must live with his statement and it will be judged continually into the future for its intrinsic merit or lack of it. Condemnation will flow or encouragement will flow. I make a subjective judgment that it will be condemnation by the public and that it will not be encouragement. 
I finish with 2 points. Firstly, invective, abuse and insinuations will not diminish the strength of our argument, nor will they achieve the divisive influence that the honourable gentlemen on the other side want. Nor will they hide the statement, which must live. The final thing I wish to say is that honourable gentlemen on the other side are prepared, by invective, abuse and insinuation, to allege that the Prime Minister is not worthy of our support and should be censured. Let me tell the whole House,  Mr Speaker,  that the performance of the Prime Minister has been to the satisfaction of every man on this side of the House and, I believe, to the satisfaction of the majority of the people of Australia. When the time comes it will be tested and both the Prime Minister and the Leader of the Opposition as people, both of whom I know and have seen over many years, will go before the people and there is no doubt where, in my judgment, the people's vote will go. But what is more important, there is no doubt about where, on the objective judgment of their performance, it ought to go. I support my Party and my Prime Minister andI reject the censure motion. But I wonder how many of those honourable members who are laughing can say that in the privacy of their own mind they support a Leader of the Opposition who makes those divisive and derisive statements. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  spoke about professional engineers and expressed the hope that I would say something. He is not here to listen to me but no doubt he will be hearing my remarks on the internal communication system and is likely to come in shortly. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition quite clearly, and quite naturally I suppose, has taken advantage of a feeling among professional engineers that the result of their case before the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission did not give them what they hoped to receive. There can be no doubt that they did not receive what they hoped to receive, but I do not think it assists the general cause of arbitration and the general cause of the progress df the profession of engineering for the  Deputy  Leader to take it up as a political issue. No doubt he hopes that the powerful speech that he made will appear in the official journal of the Association of Professional Engineers', Australia, and that alf members of the APEA will be persuaded that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition is right on their side. It is very easy to align oneself with a dissatisfied group, but an Opposition, and especially an office holder in it, must exercise responsibility. I think that responsibility has not been exercised by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in this case. I should hope that if- the journal does publish the text of his speech it will also publish the text of what I am saying because it discloses the speech of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition to be a sheer political device hoping to attract the support of engineers electorally. But if he were in Government he would be obliged to say exactly what I am now saying, that the Public Service Board is a primary wage fixation body. 
If associations which present a memorial of claims to the Public Service Board are dissatisfied with the result they can then go to an independent arbitrator appointed under the statute. From the arbitrator they can be referred to a full bench of the Arbitration Commission or, alternatively, they can proceed with their claim before the arbitrator and, if dissatisfied, they can go to a full bench of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission on appeal. The Professional Engineers Union did go to a full bench, and that bench made full inquiry, listened to all the arguments and then delivered a decision. The main basis upon which criticism is levelled seems to be that it was a split decision. If more than one person is on a bench it is likely that there will be a split decision. In this case 2 benches were sitting together, each comprising 3 members. The reason why there are 3 members on. the bench is to accommodate the split decision. There is nothing strange about a split decision from a full bench, whether' ft be in the strictly judicial character or in the role of arbitration. Indeed, I would remind honourable members that the biggest percentage increase ever granted in a' national wage case was in the basic wage increase of 1950 when an increase of 1 was granted in the basic wage. On that occasion there was a split decision, the chief judge of the then Industrial Court deciding that there should be no increase at all, but the other judges overruled him on a split decision. The biggest percentage increase ever was granted. 
At the present time there is in progress a series of discussions between the Public Service Board and the Association of Professional Engineers: lt is entirely proper that this should occur, and it is most inappropriate for the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition to make political capital at this point of time because the limitations of work that were imposed by the Association have been abandoned since the Public Service Board and the Association decided to have these discussions. The honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  covered a deal of territory and mentioned a few matters. I do not propose to follow him down every nook and cranny or every rabbit burrow that he decided to descend. He spoke about the productivity measure and at the same time criticised me, I think it was, or the Government generally - criticised somebody - for not having produced a productivity measure. I fear the honourable gentleman does not understand what productivity is because if  he  is looking for a contemporaneous measurement of productivity he will not find it. If  he  has any criticism to offer  he  should offer it to the Commonwealth Statistician who, like statisticians in every other country in the world, has been trying to devise a contemporaneous productivity measure. It is impossible to devise one. But I will make the point of telling the Commonwealth Statistician that the honourable member for Hindmarsh is critical of him. 
The honourable gentleman also mentioned industrial accidents. I should point out to him that the States and the Commonwealth in co-operation have been most assiduous in trying to reduce industrial accidents. Progress has been made. What we are trying to do is to alert people to a conscientious attitude towards industrial accidents. We are instructing trainers; we are devising standards of safety; we are inculcating in people the need to guard machinery and to adopt protective, measures. A full review of International Labour Organisation conventions was published last October, and that is the basis for further action in this regard. The honourable gentleman talked about an arbitration inspectorate. It is worth looking at what he said. It departs from the facts. It is not true that most inspections under Federal awards are carried out by State inspectors. Although the figures are not available, the percentage of such inspections is quite small. From 1960 to 1969, 163,000 inspections were carried out by Commonwealth inspectors. Of the 72,084 breaches mentioned by the honourable member for Hindmarsh, in all except 210 cases the breaches were rectified after the inspectors last visited the plant. Prosecutions were launched in the remaining 210 cases. The main aim of the inspectorate is to ensure compliance with the awards and the achievement of greater safety, not to prosecute for breaches if they can be rectified. 
The honourable member for Hindmarsh referred to appointments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. I do not want to pursue that matter. I thought that hs was casting aspersions on the members of the bench. He has frequently done it, and I do not propose to pursue that matter at this moment. But I remind him and all honourable members that not a single complaint has been lodged by any union - certainly not by the Australian Council of Trade Unions - about any appointment that has been made. A number of unionists have been appointed to the Commission as arbitration commissioners, and I am glad to say that they are very highly respected members of the Commission. They are performing a very admirable job and I express my thanks to them. They are exercising their independent function very well. 
The honourable member for Hindmarsh said that we should stress conciliation. If he were to pay any attention to what is going on he would know that conciliation is being stressed. But what I do not think he recognises is the fact that conciliation is a two-way traffic, and that while conciliation is desirable it is not reconcilable with a demand accompanied by a threat. When a demand is accompanied by a threat conciliation is impossible unless the threat is withdrawn. It would be much better if a claim were made rather than a demand and a threat. I would recommend to the honourable gentleman that such influence as he may possess should be exercised to achieve that end.. 
Other speakers in the debate traversed a number of issues mainly relating to national service. I have no doubt thai that matter is very much in the minds of every honourable gentleman and I will not enter into a debate on it at this stage. I am sure that a lot will be said abou! national service in the future. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (l).and (2) See the answer to question 664. 
See Review of Australian Law and Practice relating to conventions adopted by the International Labour Conference, a copy of which he already has. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Regulation 138 (then regulation 130a) was made in 1949 during the administration of the Chifley Labor Government. Sub-regulation (3) was added in 1956. 
217. 
(a) 198. 
19. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
During the period 1960 to 1969, 162,172 inspections were carried out by Commonwealth inspectors under Federal awards as set out hereunder: 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
Yes. 
I am informed that in connection with a review of a number ofL.L.O. Conventions, in accordance with a request from the LL.O., Victoria indicated on 10th October 1967 and New South Wales on 12th March 1968 that they were unable to agree to ratification of I.L.O. Convention No. 100 - Equal Remuneration, 1951. It had become clear that the Convention, as interpreted by the LL.O. Committee of Experts on the Application of Conventions and Recommendations, had wider implications than had been thought when the Convention was adopted. Indeed, according to the interpretation by the Committee of Experts more than half of the countries which have ratified the Convention do not fully apply it. 
by leave -  Mr Speaker,  I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended us would prevent questions without notice being postponed until a later hour this day. 
This is an unusual procedure. The reason for it is that, as you will know,  Mr Speaker,  the delegates to the Sixteenth Commonwealth Parliamentary Conference are in Parliament House now. Because of their programme, they cannot be in this chamber actil approximately 11.45 o'clock. I be- believethattheyhaveentered the Senate chamber first.Following their visit to the Senate, they will be here with us. It was the thought of the members of the Executive of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association and yourself,  Sir, that  we should take this unusual course so that the delegates may be in the chamber while we have our question time. I appreciate the co-operation of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  in this matter. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I think that the firstpoint to make to answer this question is that there is no power under the Constitution for a stated case to be made to the High Court. For the High Court to decide an issue, there must be a matter before it for adjudication. That is the first point to make. So, there is no capacity to do that. 
As to the main purpose of the question, the honourable gentleman apparently thinks that there is some shortage of defence power to authorise the legislation. I assure him that it is open to anybody to take a matter before the High Court if that person is able to establish his or her locus standi, that is, his or her right to be there. As far as I know, it has not been taken there. Therefore, one can only assume that, with the array of left wing legal advice that is available publicly and privately and that is proffered whether asked for or not and is volunteered constantly, there would have been a case before the High Court if any of those legal luminaries thought it could be challenged. 
The defence power certainly does expand according to the degree of danger. But I have no doubt that the degree of danger required to justify the National Service Act certainly exists. As a matter of policy, the Government pursues national service because it believes that it is important that treaty obligations can be fulfilled. It believes that it is essential that other countries can accept the authenticity of the determination of the Australian Government that small countries ought to have the right to determine their own futures just as we Australians would always want it for ourselves. 
The concept of conscientious objection has a long history and it has been accepted on both sides of this House as a proper concept for which to make special arrangements. It has also been accepted by the trade union movement in terms of joining the trade union movement. That concept has been expressed in the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act. It has also been expressed in the National Service Aci. The difficulty that anybody has with conscientious objection, whether it be to national service or to union membership, is to establish a means of determining the sincerity with which the belief is held. That is the primary point. As far as the National Service Act is concerned, the manner in which it can be tested and the person by whom it can be tested are clearly laid down. So far as the unions are concerned there is no clear statement of the way it should be determined. The unions determine the issue ad hoc on individual occasions. 
Looking at the record it seems that the determination of the unions depends very much on who is making the claim and on that occasion who is to determine the claim. There are 3 things which clearly emerge in relation to the attitude of unions to conscientious objection held by a person to joining a union. The first is that it differs very greatly from union to union. The second thing is that no union accepts a man's claim to be a conscientious objector merely because he says he has a conscientious objection. The unions insist that the issue be tested and they in fact do the testing. The third thing which is abundantly clear is that unions do not accept a selective conscientious objection to the joining of any particular union. 
It is not surprising that some points of order should be raised to prevent the answering of this question. 
MrBirrell - Get on and answer it. 
It is very difficult to answer a question which calls for a knowledge of what the Labor Party's policy is about conscription because it seems that the policy on the other side of the House- 
The Government's policy is perfectly clear. It is as I set out in an earlier answer to a question, that is, to make sure that the armed forces of Australia are at the level which is required of them and that there are adequate Citizen Military Forces. I am asked to compare that with other policies. It is very difficult to compare that with a policy when the policy is what somebody says it is for the moment when he says it, just as it suits him. I have always understood that my colleagues on the other side of the House with a proper national interest had said that conscription is justifiable only when the country is under threat. I thought I understood that until I read what the Leader of the Opposition had said last week, that is, that if members of the Labor Party were in government in Singapore, Switzerland, Sweden or Israel they would support conscription. I thought to myself: Which country is likely to rush over the Alps into Switzerland, take Geneva and imprison the Swiss? What about Sweden? Sweden has a Labor government most certainly - a Socialist government dependent upon Communist support - and this is a country which the Leader of the Opposition says quite clearly should have conscription. Singapore is another interesting place. If conscription is justifiable in Singapore in the eyes of the Leader of the Opposition he apparently believes in the domino theory - that it is justifiable for the Government of Singapore to have conscription in order to be prepared to resist a downward thrust of conquering Communism. So the honourable gentleman has made the Labor Party's policy what he wants it to be at the time he states it, and I am certainly sure that other members of the Labor Party do hot share the enunciation of his policy that he made the other day. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (4) An extensive review of the law and practice in the Territory of Papua and New Guinea in relation to the matters dealt with in Convention No. 1 10 is still in progress. 
I give notice that at the next sitting I shall move that Government business shall take precedence over general business tomorrow. 
The logical inconsistency of the honourable member is well known to us and it has been manifested in its highest form today. The Liberal Party of Australia, unlike the Australian Labor Party, can observe what Communists are doing without being taken over by the Communists. It is the association of the Labor Party with the Communist Party which is fraught with so much danger to this country. The truth is, of course, that Communists do get themselves into important union positions in Australia. They gel themselves into these positions by assiduously applying themselves to union work, and having attained office they then use their influence, power and position to serve their political purposes, and too often they drag by the nose unsuspecting Australian Labor Party members. I recommend that the honourable gentleman look at the Australian Labor Party for the effects of Communism rather than at the Liberal Party. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  has made some comments which need to be answered initially before the main thrust of the argument is presented. Firstly, he says that the conscientious objection provisions are inadequate. From that one would assume that the great majority of those people making application for exemption as conscientious objectors have failed in their applications. The opposite is the truth. In a report that I made on the operations of the National Service Act to 30th June, for the year preceding, I pointed out that of 1 83 applications for total exemption, 150, or 82 per cent, were granted; 14. or 8 per cent, were recognised as noncombatants; and 19, or only 10 per cent, were refused. Of the 34 applications for non-combatant status, 30, or 88 per cent, were granted. Ft is simply not justifiable to describe the conscientious objection provisions as inadequate. 
The next point which the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition made was that there was selective objection in the United Kingdom during the Second World War. The honourable gentleman relies for the authority for that statement on a judgment by  Mr Justice  Windeyer. He has not produced any authority to indicate that the United Kingdom situation was achieved by statute, by regulation or by any other way. He relies solely upon the following excerpt from a judgment by  Mr Justice  Windeyer: 
This was so in the United Kingdom during the war of 1939-194S, as  Mr Fenner  Brockway, a veteran of the cause of conscientious objectors, has acknowledged in his foreword to Hayes' Challenge of Conscience which deals with that period. 
He went on. I come to the next point which I think should be answered specifically. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition posed a question in a rhetorical form. He said that a young man applying for exemption on the grounds of conscientious objection would have the question put to him: 'Would your belief prevent you bearing arms if there was an invasion and your family was threatened?' To that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition says the young man must answer 'Yes' in order to be granted exemption on the grounds of conscientious objection. I think he is wrong in anticipating that such a question would be put, and he is certainly wrong in anticipating that unless the answer were 'Yes', no conscientious objection status would be granted by the court. That is a matter for the court to determine. One thing that is abundantly clear is that you cannot give conscientious objector status to any man simply on the claiming of it. No country in the world will give conscientious objector status to a man simply because he claims it, especially when acceptance of his claim to conscientious objection removes him from any liability to service, as distinct from the position of his colleagues who have to render service. 
It is worth noting that the major thrust of the argument of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition did not go to the question that is posed in the terms of the matter of public importance, namely, selective objection. The major part of his argument went to the adequacy of a person claiming conscientious objection on the well known ground, which I can best put by referring to the words of the Chief Justice of the High Court of Australia,  Sir Garfield  Barwick: 'A present conscientious belief which does not allow of participation in military service of any kind at any time'. That is what the honourable gentleman was arguing against. The terms of the matter of public importance before the House relate to selective service. The words of the matter of public importance are: 
The Government's failure to extend exemption from national service to persons whose conscientious beliefs do not allow them to engage in a particular war or particular warlike operations. 
He asserted selective service when speaking but he did not justify it. 
I think it is worth making a few points on the issue which has been raised in the House - selective objection claims. There is a range of persons proposing selective objection. In the first category that I identify are the well intentioned people who see in it a panacea for all objections to national service. I am afraid that these people - well intentioned as they are and whose integrity I respect - are very sorely misled. If they think they will have in this a panacea with which to get rid of objections to national service - many of them who argue in favour of national service think it would be less difficult if there was selective objection - they are very sorely misled. 
The people in the second category which I now identify, who argue for selective exemption, are the great majority of objectors. The great majority of objectors object to compulsory military service in any form, so much so that they refuse to register or to make application for conscientious objection or to undergo a medical examination. They say that their conviction is so deep that the Act is wrong that they will not participate in any way. I am afraid to say that it is nonsense to suggest to these people that selective objection would be the means of getting rid of all these objections. 
Then there is a third group which is in favour of selective objection, and that is the members of the Australian Labor Party, and particularly the parliamentary section of the Australian Labor Party. I fear that they pursue this policy for no other than political purposes. What they seek to do by the pursuit of it is to capture the voles of the first category, that is, the wellintentioned people who think it is the panacea. They also attempt to catch the voles of the whole range of objectors, whether they be objectors in reasonable form or unreasonable form or whether they be syndicalist members of the Labor Party seek to attract the votes of these people by taking this course. Another reason why they pursue this policy is that they want to destroy national service completely. There is no doubt that in all of the statements that have been made by the Opposition at various times by various spokesmen, while it is very difficult to find a consistent line running through them, there is the single umbilical cord - to destroy national service. 
Also, of course, as was said quite rightly in this House today, in all of its attacks the Opposition recklessly disregards and indeed abandons any thought for the probity of our commitment in Vietnam. It recklessly disregards that matter, uncaring as to the outcome of it both for our own commitment or for the welfare of the South Vietnamese people and their capacity to choose their own solutions. But a third and more cogent reason for this debate today is the attempt by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  to align the whole of the parliamentary Labor Party with his statements of the week before last, which were quite irresponsible for a man who is  Her  Majesty's loyal Leader of the Opposition and who so constantly reminds us that he is the alternative Prime Minister. Feeling so lonely, as he must, because of the irresponsibility of the statements, he is making an attempt, today to hide the statements behind a selective objection proposal so that the whole of his Party can say: "Yes, we are for selective objection.' He will then, by some illogical process, argue that the whole of his Party supported those statements. Quite clearly, the Parliamentary Party, possessing as it does very many responsible and serious men, does not embrace those statements, lt is worth remembering what they were. I quote from the transcript of this Press conference. The Leader of the Opposition said: 
I told the Caucus that if I were asked by a man who objected to the Vietnam war as to the course he should take, I would give this advice: He should register and at the time of doing so give written advice that if he was inducted and ordered to go to Vietnam he would  not  obey that order. If he was ballotted in then he should present himself for his medical examination and if found fit and should be inducted, then he should give -written advice that if he was ordered to go to Vietnam he would not obey the order. 
Why is this matter of public importance before the House today? The public importance of it is to try to relieve the Leader of the Opposition from the responsibility of that quite unwarranted and indeed reckless and irresponsible statement. He feels that getting his Party to support him will enable him to say: 'Well, we are all in favour of selective conscientious objection; therefore, what I said was not really so bad. That is the device chosen today. How then does this matter suddenly become a matter of public importance? It has been argued in this chamber many times before. Why is it suddenly now, on the first sitting after the debacle of the week before last week, which was a non-sitting week, that this matter has come up? lt is raised merely as a device by the Leader of the Opposition to try to inveigle everybody else unwittingly into supporting his point of view. 
It is worth remembering that, in that same Press conference transcript, this statement by the Leader of the Opposition appears: 
Never have  1  said that a man should not obey orders in Vietnam. 
The necessary consequence of this proposal is that a young man would disobey orders in Vietnam because he would say: '1 have a conscientious conviction against this fire pattern'; 'I have a conscientious objection against taking this ridge'; 'I have a conscientious objection against  scouting, lo prevent  surprise attack on some other elements in the force'. That would be to disobey orders. I wonder whether the Leader of the Opposition knew when he said: Never have I said that a man should not obey orders in Vietnam' that within 48 hours he was going to do exactly what he said he had never done. Within 24 hours, he said:   . . that a young man on service in Vietnam who decided it was a bad war should notify his commanding officer thai he could not conscientiously continue. 
That is to disobey those orders. 
To accord the status of conscientious objector to a person who objects lo a particular war - selective conscientious objection or selective pacifism, as it has been called - was considered by a United States National Advisory Commission appointed by  President  Johnson which reported in 1967. The majority of the Commission believed that the status of conscientious objector can properly be applied only to those who are opposed to military service in all circumstances. It is one thing to deal in law with a person who believes he is acting according to an inner conviction when he opposed all military services. It is another to accord a special status to a man who believes that there is an inner conviction which tells him he can undertake military service under some circumstances and not under others. The Commission members considered that 'selective pacifism' is essentially a political question of support or non-support of a war and cannot be judged in terms of inner convictions, (as distinct from views and opinions a man may hold). Political opposition to a particular war should be expressed through recognised democratic processes and should claim no special right of exemption from democratic decisions. Legal recognition of 'selective pacifism' could open the door to a general theory of selective disobedience to law which could quickly tear down government and its operation; the distinction is dim between a person conscientiously opposed to payment of a particular tax and conscientious objection to a particular war or to a particular battle. Let us assume that a naval crew member on a ship told to train guns said: 'Wait a minute. At whom are we firing?' That is selective objection. 
Do honourable members opposite say that a person can have selective objection only in Australia? Do they say that a person can have selective objection only before he is called up? Of course they do not. They argue for selective objection throughout the entire process, that is, before call-up, during service in Australia and, if necessary, during service in Vietnam. The recklessness of that proposal - the destruction of the confidence and morale of an Army, of a Navy or of an Air Force charged with the defence of this country - would be recklessness to a degree that one would not expect it to be brought up for any other reason than an attempt by the Leader of the Opposition to harm and to divert attention from the recklessness of his statement of 2 weeks ago. 
May I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure regarding this legislation. Before the debate on these Bills is resumed I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering the Bills and the Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Bill, as they are related measures. Separate questions may, of course, be put on each measure at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of these Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
I cannot give answers to these questions in the order in which the honourable member put them to me, because I did not note down the questions as they were asked, but I think my answer will comprehend the whole nature of the questions. There is provision under the Act for the Minister to declare classes of people as having indefinite deferment, and those classes include those persons serving in the Citizen Military Forces. 
That is the way in which it occurs. As far as the alternative is concerned - that is, of performing CMF service as distinct from full time service - I am glad that the honourable gentleman recognises that it does constitute a valid alternative to service in Vietnam, quite contrary to what his Leader and  Deputy  Leader said in the debate yesterday. 
The Leader of the Opposition said ' yesterday that the CMF was not an alternative to service in Vietnam. The question today acknowledges that it is an alternative. 
I am afraid I do not command the influence which is necessary to give the publicity to the unions' attitudes to conscientious objectors that the public media give in the other area. I do not possess that influence. However, I think it is worth reiterating that the unions do not accept a person's claim to be a conscientious objector merely because he makes the claim. Secondly, the unions do not recognise selective conscientious objection. I think I should add that I have heard union spokesmen say that their attitude to conscientious objectors is that if they want to be conscientious objectors they should forgo the benefits which have been achieved by trade unionism. It occurs to me that the same sort of process applies to military service and that those persons who recognise that the future of Australia depends on the survival and the maintenance of a defence policy should acknowledge that national service is predicated on that basis so that we can enjoy the benefits of a future strong Australia. 
I am afraid that the honourable gentleman is asking me for a legal opinion. I will have to communicate with him, and I wilt send him both my opinion and my fee. 
 Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes, I was misrepresented by the honourable member for Hindmarsh. I did answer the question. The honourable member will remember, I am sure, that in the second reading speech when the Bill was introduced the Government stated that as a matter of policy it would indefinitely defer those persons who opted for Citizen Military Forces training. 
I move: 
That Government Business shall take precedence over General Business tomorrow. 
It is the custom of the House while the Budget debate continues for Government Business to take precedence over General Business on the Thursday when under Standing Orders General Business would otherwise come on. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I would draw the attention of the honourable member to my answer to his question No. 1088. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In 'Federal Industrial Laws' at page 379 of the fourth edition, the editors quote, in part, the remarks of  Mr Justice  Dunphy set out in part (I) of the answer to the honourable member's question No. 1556. The remarks of the Judge appear in his judgment in Commonwealth Steamship Owners Association v. Waterside Workers Federation of Australia (1960) 2 F.L.R. 328 and it is this case to which the editors refer when they say that the Judge's remarks were 'obviously going too far'. On page 380 of the .same edition, the editors express the view that the judgment of  Mr Justice  Dunphy in Commonwealth Steamship Owners Association v. Waterside Workers Federation of Australia (No. 2) (1963), 5 F.L.R. 103 exhibits some rather dubious reasoning'. 
Yes, because, as will be seen from the above, the editors do not express the view that the judgment of  Mr Justice  Dunphy in the 1960 case at 2 F.L.R. 328 'exhibits some rather dubious reasoning' as suggested by the honourable member in his question No. 1556. They express this view as lo his judgment in the 1963 case at 5 F.L.R. 103. 
This case was raised by the honourable member for Deakin last night, and I therefore had some inquiries made this morning. The inquiries that I have made disclose that a solicitor in Sydney, who customarily acts for people of the particular religious sect to which this man belongs, had contacted my Department in early October because the young man concerned had been told by his employer that he would be dismissed. The employer has what is called a closed shop; that is, he will not employ anybody who is not a member of a union. I have no doubt that the employer has adopted this policy believing that by doing so he will avoid industrial disputes. 
However, this plant is covered by the Country Printing Industry Award, and in that award there is a preference clause under section 47 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. When there is a preference clause in an award under that section of the Act it is possible for people to go to the IndustrialRegistrar to obtain a certificate certifying to their conscientious objection. In fact, the young man did that and did obtain acertificate. In the meantime an officer of my Department had contacted the firm and asked it not to dismiss him, and was able to say to the firm that the Department felt perfectly confident that there would be no industrial dispute because it had had discussions with the Printing and Kindred Industries Union. It was recognised that the man did have conscientious objection. The employers were asked not to dismiss the young man. Unfortunately, although he did have his certificate which was granted on 6th October and notwithstanding the requests from my Department, and. I think, the union and the employers association - that is, the Printing and Allied Trades Employers Association - the company did decide that it would dismiss him. He was dismissed on 7th October; that is, actually after the certificate had been granted. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The information sought by the honourable member is contained in the attached schedule. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(2) and (3) I would refer the honourable member to the answer 1 gave to his question No. 1000. Moreover, I would also refer him to the agreed press statement issued in Canberra on 6th May 1970, following the meeting that the AttorneyGeneral and I had that day with representatives of the ACTU and the National Employers' Policy Committee. That statement said, inter alia:  ... It was emphasised that the principles set out the guidelines for the establishment of dispute settling procedures and that it is recognised that they may need some adaptation to meet the special needs of particular industries. 
It will be the mutual responsibility of individual unions and employers to give effect to the guidelines in one of the following ways: 
by incorporating the procedures in awards by consent; or 
by incorporation in agreements lodged with the appropriate tribunals; or 
by the formal exchange of agreed documents.' 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The International Labour Organisation has postponed the . following meetings of interest to Australia which were scheduled to be held at the places and times indicated: 9th Session, Metal Trades Committee-^ 
The  answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. Sub-section (3) of section 12 of the Public Service Arbitration Act 1920-1969 provides that the Arbitrator shall forward a copy of the claim to the Board and to the Minister of any Department of State affected by the claim, 
Yes. Sub-section (4) of section12 of the Act provides that the Board and the Minister of any Department of State affected by the claim may within the prescribed time lodge either jointly or separately any objections they see fit to make to the granting of the claim. 
I am informed that 22nd September 1970 was the last occasion on which a "considered reply' was received by the Public Service Arbitrator from a Minister of a Department of State. It concerns claimNo. D0l4 and was forwarded on behalf of the Minister fur Works. 
At the outset I should say that I and all members of my Department share the sense of loss felt by the dependants and relatives of the men killed in this awful tragedy. I have spoken to officers in my Department and told them to see what can be done by us in any way to assist in the rapidity of the settlement of the claims. I am bound to tell the honourable -gentleman that there is not a lot that we can do formally. But let me come to the point that he raises, whether or not the compensation can be paid to dependants in another country. 1 was concerned about this when I was Minister for Immigration. This was a matter, which, of course, concerned other governments. I therefore suggested to all State governments that action should be taken so that in all cases dependants of workers killed here could be paid compensation in overseas countries. There was a general warmth of response by the Stats governments but many of them had legislation which was built on the basis of reciprocity. The test that some of the State governments had was: If an Australian worker were killed in a foreign country would his dependants in Australia receive compensation? I was at pains to point out that this was a circumstance where I fell reciprocity should not be the test and that in fact payments ought to be made to the dependant wherever that dependant was, regardless of reciprocity. Having done that we should pursue the matter to try to achieve reciprocity, but should not let reciprocity be the test. My recollection is - it is some time since I have looked at this matter - that all State governments have indicated a willingness to do this but that this will require amendments to their Acts. I say that on the basis of my recollection. I will test my recollection within the next 48 hours and let the honourable member know. 
The way in which the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  finished his speech is indicative of the attitude of the Opposition to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, lt does not escape anybody's notice that the oil industry decision was given last Friday and that the national wage case is to commence tomorrow. One might wonder about the timing of this discussion of a matter of public importance. What was it that led it to be brought on today rather than last week or 2, 3 or 4 weeks ago? The answer to that is to be found in a curious attitude which the Opposition has to the Arbitration Commission. But it is not its own attitude, born out of its own examination. It is an attitude which has been forced upon it by the trade union movement and particularly by the powerful trade union muscle men who want to see the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission destroyed. 
All that can really be said for the terms of this proposal to discuss a matter of public importance is that the language is colourful. Coming from the source it has, one would expect colourful language calculated to embarrass, compromise and prejudice the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. What could be more calculated to do one of those 3 things than to elevate this matter into the political arena on the eve of the most important wage case of the year, the national wage case? Coming from the Australian Labor Party, it is quite laughable that it should pretend to be supporting the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and the maintenance of that independent body acting judicially. The ALP has as its policy not the preservation of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. Quite the contrary. The policy of the ALP is to achieve wages and conditions by legislative or executive action. 
One will find in its policy a claim that there should be a 35-hour week, then a 30 hour week. One will find members of the Australian Labor Party, in debates in this House, asking the Government to force the Public Service Arbitrator or the Public Service Board to award specific conditions or specific wage rates. The Opposition uses this forum of politics to insist upon it. Then it comes here with what it says is a matter of public importance, to argue for the protection of the independent statutory body that has the same character as is possessed by the Public Service Board and by the Public Service Arbitrator. The Australian Labor Party wants to adjust wages and conditions by legislative and executive action and not by the independent tribunal. The Opposition does not have as its policy to protect it or preserve that tribunal. The Australian Labor Party policy is destructive of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and of the whole system. its policy is conducive to industrial anarchy, it is harmful to the majority of workers, and it is reckless of the inflationary effects of its policies on the community and the workers. It is conducive to industrial anarchy because it recognises the strength of union leaders in positions of power and authority in those areas where the withdrawal of goods and services from the community or industry would be extreme for those persons. That is what I mean by industrial power. What I mean by industrial muscle men are the union leadern possessed of that power. When they use it it creates industrial anarchy. The ALP policy is harmful to the majority of workers because 85 per cent of the workers in this country depend for the maintenance of their minimum wages and conditions on arbitrated awards. That is why it is harmful to the majority of workers. It is reckless of inflationary impact because it is inflationary of the wage drift that has been encouraged by the making of demands, accompanied by threats, rather than going to the Commission to attempt to better the position. It is inflationary, and inflation is destructive to the community and to the workers who do not have that industrial power. It is harmful to workers because the major vice of inflation is its redistribution of assets and real wages without the persons who formerly possessed assets or real wages being able to fight against the movement of the inflation which that brings. 
The ALP is both opportunistic and submissive to the power of union officers of whatever Party. It is opportunistic because it wants to attract the support of people with voting power in the ALP organisation and in the unions. That is why it is opportunistic and that is the major reason why this matter of public importance was raised in this House today, opportunistically. The ALP is submissive because it allows itself to be dominated by trade unions on whom it relies for support. 
The unpredictability of this matter of public importance can be judged by the actions and words of the man quoted so often by the honourable member for Hindmarsh in his speech, that is  Mr Hawke,  the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. The unpredictability of it all is shown by the fact that  Mr Hawke  has described the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission as a rubber stamp. Yet, it was he who took the oil industry to the Commission. It is he who is taking the national wage case to the Commission tomorrow. Yet, he calls it a rubber stamp; he describes it in these terms. After the decision in the last national wage case,  Mr Hawke  said: 
This Executive - 
That is the Interstate Executive of the ACTU:   . . utterly condemns the inconsistent and dishonest reasoning of this decision. 
This is the appellation that  Mr Hawke  gave to the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. What sort of crocodile tears are cried when on one occasion the Commission is described in that way and then the Labor Opposition says in this House today that the Commission must be protected? Let us not forget that: the honourable member for Hindmarsh has been just as unrestrained in his condemnation of the Commission. 
The Opposition attacks the Commission, lt attacks it in those terras. But then it must pretend to support the Commission because it knows that 85 per cent of the workers depend for their minimum wages and conditions and the protection of them on the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. It knows full well that the wage drift goes to the powerful unions and that 85 per cent of the community - the clerks, the carpet layers, the architrave builders and these sorts of people - do not have industrial power. In our egalitarian society, where we judge that a man's skill ought to be rewarded by the possession of skill, his willingness to work and the way in which he works, we believe that wages should be determined by relative wage justice and not by the possession of industrial power. Without the Commission the worker would not have that benefit. The major capacity in a money sense as distinct from a real sense would be distributed among the powerful unions. So we would have new strata - the strata of those with high wages and therefore higher living standards would be those working in the industrial power area. These would be the people responsible for the provision of electricity, transport or services on the waterfront. The other people - the remaining 85 per cent of the work force - would not enjoy the benefit of the living standard of those people working in the industrial power area. That is the importance of the Commission. Honourable gentlemen sitting on the Opposition side of the House know it well and would never dare say that the Commission should be struck down or that the system should be abandoned because they would not be able to face those on whom they rely to be returned here. But, periodically, we will find that the powerful trade union leader wants to strike the Commission down. People on the other side of the House, influenced by the power of trade union leaders, must support them. Periodically, Opposition members run for cover and put up for discussion a matter of public importance of this kind at this time with this timing.It does not impress anybody; least of all would it impress those people who know the poli'ical reasoning which lies behind this procedure. 
The Opposition is bound by dominant union leaders. They have the industrial muscle. They want to rob the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission of its standing. They want increases outside the system by the means of a demand with a threat which, these days, is called direct negotiation. But do not look for the term direct negotiation' in the dictionary and apply its meaning there to the industrial situation. The dominant union leaders want to go outside that. The method that they adopt is first to rob the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission of its probity. If it is robbed of its probity, it is reasonable for the union leaders to say: 'We will go direct'. While the Commission has probity, people are able to say: 'Do not pursue your wage claims by threat accompanying a demand. Go to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to have it arbitrated'. 
An old saying is: Those whom the Gods want to destroy they first send mad'. What has been happening in this industrial field is that that which the powerful union leaders want to destroy - that is, the Commission - they first rob of its probity. That is why they use terms like 'rubber stamp', dishonesty' and that is why they attack individual members of the Commission. In office, the Australian Labor Party would erode the Commission to the benefit of the musclemen and the powerful unions and to the disadvantage of 85 per cent of the workers. The inflation which this action would unleash would redistribute assets of people no longer working and whose assets depend on their past work. Tt would disadvantage the wage earner who does not possess the power. In a wage drift, there can be no real wage increase beyond the underlying growth in productivity capacity. That is what I believe and have constantly said and reiterate now, and that I believe is something that I have a responsibility and duty to the public to say continually for if this is accepted, we can have in this countrv the sort of development that we so ardently want and that it is the policy of this Government to achieve and that it is its duty to achieve. 
The honourablegentleman quoted at length from an address that T gave to the Committee for Economic Development in Australia. He quoted quite a number of points but never in context. I therefore ask for leave,  Mr Speaker,  to incorporate the address in Hansard. 
No! Leave would not be granted because then people could read the context of what I said. The honourable gentleman does not want that to happen at all. 
National wage cases have far reaching effects over a broad range of subjects - the economy, rural and export industries, inflationary pressures, costs and prices - and the public interest must be represented in these cases. All Ministers in their own responsibilities have a duty to tell the public their attitudes to these things. It is their responsibility to comment publicly and that is what they do. This sort of attack will not frighten any Minister. It will not frighten him into silence and it will not frighten him into denying his responsibility. He must talk. He must comment. It is unavoidable that a comment must bear some relationship to some case pending or in prospect. The alternative is silence. No Minister will accept that, especially when honourable gentlemen on the other side of the House, trade union leaders and employer's representatives can say what they want to say from their own points of view. Government Ministers must present the public interest and must make their comments relevant to the public interest. They must do so. 
The Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission is an independent body. Ministers confirm it explicitly. The Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  in the speech referred to by the honourable gentleman explicitly confirmed - that confirmation is unnecessary - the statutory independence of that body. Very frequently, whenever it is appropriate, I confirm it. Implicitly, we all confirm it by knowing that we can speak to the public as a comment without our comments influencing the Commission, for the Commission has frequently said that it will take notice of what the Government says only when the Government puts a submission while intervening in the public interest in open court for its examination. Then, it will have the same degree of influence that all other arguments tested and examined will have when presented to the Commission. 
This matter of public importance is calculated to bring an independent body - a judicial acting independent body - into the political forum. I think that it is a miscalculated attempt on the part of the Opposition. That independence will be maintained. I am quite sure that the members of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission will assure it. 
The question that the honourable gentleman raises is one of very considerable difficulty in the industrial area. There are 2 unions representing firemen and competition exists between the two. I think the way in which the honourable gentleman put his question was to ask whether 1 would use influence with the Queensland Government to achieve a result. I assure -him that I will not do that. I- think that, when there are disputes as between unions, issues are raised which are very difficult to solve and, very often, somebody wanting to do good only achieves harm. I am afraid that that may be the case here. I will not do that. 1 am well aware of the circumstances of the competition. Equally, of course, the honourable gentleman will know that recently the High Court ruled that fire fighting was not an industry. I have had a letter recently asking me to receive a deputation. That letter came from the Federal  President  of the Firemen's Union. I propose to reply to the effect that .! will be very glad to receive him because he happens to be a man whom I have known for very many years and like as a nian. But I do not think that I will be able to achieve the result he wants. 
Yesterday the Leader of the Opposition asked me a question about the payment of workers' compensation to victims of the West Gate Bridge disaster. I undertook to make a reply to him within 48 hours. I ask for leave to reply to the question. 
I give notice that at the next sitting I shall move: 
That unless otherwise ordered, commencing on Tuesday, 27th October, and continuing until and including Friday, 30th October, the House shall meet for the despatch of business on the following days and at the times specified: Tuesday, 27th October, 2.30 p.m.; Wednesday, 28th October, 2.30 p.m.; Thursday, 29th October. 10.30 a.m.; and Friday, 30th October, 10.30 a.m. 
I also give notice that at the next sitting r shall move: 
That standing order 103, the lt o'clock rule, be suspended until the end of the year. 
I see the author of this statement in the chamber. As I read the statement, I think it was in these terms: 1971 will be the year of the 35-hour week. Now, at the risk of incurring the wrath of the honourable member for Hindmarsh, I will state quite emphatically that I believe that the aspirations of this country will not be achieved by the precipitate arrival of a 35-hour working week. 
The Government has constantly maintained the position that increases in award conditions should be achieved through the arbitration tribunals. That remains the policy crf the Government' and is one which, naturally enough, I thoroughly endorse. Therefore, it must be a matter for the arbitration tribunals. I think that when these matters come before the arbitration tribunals it will be encumbent upon the Government to use the power under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act to intervene in the public interest and to put in the public interest the arguments against it or, at least, against too precipitate an arrival of it. 
The cost is quite great. The volume of the cost can be measured - people will say if 1 give figures that I have not calculated them correctly - and is without doubt in excess of $2,000m a year. To put it into percentage terms, the unit costs of production will be increased by approximately 10 per cent or 12 per cent. 
The point I make is that the only way to achieve the aspirations which the people of Australia want - I refer to a sense of idealism and indeed a sense of social conscience - is by community wealth. Community wealth will not be achieved by sheer money wealth. The only way that it can be achieved is by real wealth. All wages and all conditions must be real. There can be no real increase without an underlying productivity growth. 
At this point of our national history, we have an economy which, I think, is - this is how the commentators claim it to be - in good shape. What I would like to see is a fully employed economy - fully employed not only in the sense of the work force but also in terms of the constituent parts of it. While it is fully employed, we can look forward to progress. While it is not fully employed or while there are slacks or when the tensions are too tight, we will not be able to achieve these things. I believe that the 35-hour week is something which ought not to be achieved this year or next year. 
Finally, so that there can be some criterion of measurement of the cost of a 35-hour week I point out that if we add together the total amount lost in industrial strikes, the total payout in workers' compensation and the total cost of 4 weeks annual leave, we still have not arrived at the cost of the introduction of a 35-hour week. 
There is a very short answer to this question: No, they are not the facts. However, to get the honourable gentleman off his own petard I will answer the question at greater length. Actually he has a question on the notice paper - one of about 170. It was placed there yesterday before he knew of today's Press speculation. Now he wants to resurrect his question orally, despite the fact that it is on the notice paper. But the question having been asked, let me deal with a few of these matters. 
The honourable gentleman slides across the term: 'Why do we refuse to honour the agreement?' Then no doubt at a later point of time he will refer to Hansard and say: There it is uncontradicted'. Well, it is contradicted. There was no agreement. There were negotiations between the 2 negotiating parties. The 2 negotiating parties reached the point in their negotiations where they had an accord. But there was no agreement, and there could be no agreement until it was approved, and it has not been approved. 
Over a long period of time there has been a co-ordinating responsibility for all government departments and instrumentalities. The Department of Labour and National Ser vice has the co-ordinating responsibility for those departments and instrumentalities which have relativity to outside industrial areas. The Public Service Board has the co-ordinating responsibility for other types of departments. It is in pursuance of that course that the Government has acted. It may interest the honourable gentleman to know that that procedure dates from the Chifley Government, and it has to be so. The Chifley Government recognised that it was necessary for this reason: If all departments and instrumentalities were able to make their own separate arrangements, then naturally enough, unions would attempt to isolate an individual department or instrumentality and force a concession from it, and they would use that concession to attack other areas. It would produce chaos. It would produce a tremendous amount of industrial disputation. 
Another point that needs to be made is that the Waterside Workers Federation and the Australian Council of Trade Unions are participants in an agreement in relation to the waterfront. Under the terms of that agreement, all special agreements were supposed to be negotiated within the terms of the arrangement with the Australian Stevedoring Industry Council. In regard to the series of questions which the honourable gentleman has asked, what I understand will happen now is that the Australian National Line and the Waterside Workers Federation will negotiate within the terms of the Stevedoring Industry Council agreement, and I would not presume to say what the result of those negotiations will be. 
-I move: 
That, unless otherwise ordered, commencing on Tuesday, 27th October and continuing until and including Friday, 30th October, the House shall meet for the despatch of business on the following days and at the times specified: 
Tuesday, 27th October - 2.30 p.m. 
Wednesday, 28th October- 2.30 p.m. 
Thursday, 29th October- 10.30 a.m. 
Friday, 30th October- 10.30 a.m. 
This motion determines the days of sitting next week and the hour of commencement of the sitting for each day from Tuesday to Friday. I hope that the sittings will finish next Friday. I am unable to say at this time whether they will or will not finish but I expect that they will. If it is necessary to sit beyond next Friday to complete the legislative programme then we will resume on the following Monday and sit as necessary. If that is necessary I will introduce another motion towards the end of next week. I would have to give notice on the Thursday that I would move a motion on the Friday and on that day I would notify the House of the times of sitting. 
 I move: 
That standing order 103 (11 o'clock rule) be suspended until the end of the year. 
This action is taken in each parliamentary session as we reach the end of the session. This has been done for decades, and for decades people have got up in response to the motion and have said that it is legislation by exhaustion. They are sure to use this term, but it is nothing of the kind at all. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  normally enunciates for 20 minutes on this issue but he has already taken his 20 minutes on the last issue. Histrionically he deserves an award for it and I admired his performance today. I thought his performance today was better than it had been on prior occasions on this matter. 
Of course the Government cannot accept the motion. Upon analysis of the motion we find that it is misconceived. It is quite badly misconceived to say, as the motion does, that the period of sittings of the House be continued until the Government's wool legislation has been introduced and dealt with by both Houses. It is a complete misconception to think that we, in this House, control the other chamber, the Senate. For us to say that this House will sit until the Senate has dealt with the legislation overlooks the fact that we may very well be sitting here unable to control the situation. The Senate is a chamber with its own numbers and its own control of its procedures, lt would be subjecting this House to an indignity, which the House could not possibly accept, to say that we shall sit here until the Senate deals with the legislation. The honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  said something in terms quite different from those of his motion. He said that we must continue to sit here until the legislation is passed in both Houses. That, of course, is an even more extreme and, with respect, untenable proposition. What the honourable gentleman seems to want, and he emphasised this towards the end of what he was saying, is an assurance from the Government that the Bill will be introduced and dealt with in both Houses. I can give him an assurance that the Government will do all in its power to introduce the Bill and have it dealt with in both Houses. 
Yes, and passed. I can give him that assurance. We will do all we can to have the Bill introduced into this House, considered by this House and passed by this House. Likewise we will do all we can to have it introduced into the Senate, considered by the Senate and passed by the Senate, for that has always been our intention. But the honourable gentleman seems to believe that once the Government determines a policy it is a simple matter to have a Bill prepared for the Parliament. We are presently concerned with a most important and significant policy. It is a policy which comes out of the co-operation between my colleague, the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony),  with his tremendous attention to detail and his tremendous concern for the interests of the industry, and those who are learned in the industry -  Sir John  Crawford, the various associations and organisations. He has put his capacity, together with the capacity of those in the industry, into analysing all the suggestions, analysing the needs and analysing what he believes to be a constructive approach to a very serious problem, then going to Cabinet which put in a tremendous amount of time considering the proposal. 
Once a policy decision has been reached it has to be translated into legislation. If the honourable gentleman feels that one can say to the Parliamentary Counsel: Please have a Bill ready by tomorrow morning' he is under a very serious misconception. While some honourable members may labour under this misconception the honourable gentleman most assuredly cannot. Because of his history as a member of the Commonwealth Public Service - if I remember it, with a policy responsibility in a Department of State of the Commonwealth- he knows what is involved in drawing up legislation. It is a most exacting task. It imposes on the Parliamentary Counsel the most exacting intellectual requirements to put down on a piece of paper something which is going to establish rights, to establish policy and something which will, it is the Government's belief, make a tremendous contribution to the present difficulties of this industry. The honourable gentleman who now moves for the suspension of Standing Orders in this misconceived way has been remarkably silent on the matter for a considerable time. It seems that when the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  asked a question yesterday he highlighted this matter. The honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King)  asked a question, and received publicity for his concern. The question was answered by the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr McEwen)  and it crystallised the position. My colleague, the Minister for Primary Industry, likewise has been stating emphatically his intention. 
Today, on the authorisation of my colleague, the Minister for Primary Industry, the honourable member for Dawson was. told that if it were humanly possible a copy of the Bill or its most advanced draft would be made available to him so that he would have the weekend to consider it. The only stricture on his receiving a copy was that he was to regard it as a confidential document. He was also asked to realise that, as a result of revision, it might be necessary to make changes before arriving at the final text. The honourable member for Dawson received this information this afternoon. If anybody could be assured of the intention of the Government, as expressed by the Minister for Primary Industry, it is the honourable member for Dawson. Within about an hour the honourable member for Dawson conceived the idea to come into the chamber and move this motion. It could not have been politically motivated, I am quite sure of that, because the honourable member for Dawson has left the political arena, because of an anxiety to do something for this industry, to my colleague, the Minister for Primary Industry, and the rest of the members of the Government. 
It is too late in the day for the honourable member for Dawson to come into the chamber like Cervantes' Don Quixote on a rather rickety horse and with a rather bent stave. He has tilted this windmill, this windmill being a motion for the suspension of Standing Orders. The motion is misconceived, as I said, and therefore cannot be possibly carried. In the course of his speech he said that what he wants is an assurance, and he has been given that assurance in categorical language. The assurance is that the Government will do all in its power not merely to introduce the Bill, not merely to have the Bill considered by this House, but to have it passed by this House. I repeat those same words in relation to the Senate. The Government has demonstrated its intent. I expect that an advanced draft of the Bill will be available tomorrow. 
The information that was conveyed to the honourable member for Dawson was conveyed to him privately. Now, because of what he has done, I depart from the normal practice in matters like this of saying in a confidential way to the honourable member for Dawson or whatever shadow minister may be involved: 'Look, Rex, it will be available to you.' Now I say it publicly because it has to be said publicly because it is evidence of what is the intention of the Government. The honourable gentleman, knowing what was conveyed to him, has moved this motion, and towards the end of his speech he made the halfhearted statement that a copy of the Bill may be put in the post. The honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  glossed the story a bit and said that it may be put in an envelope and may or may not arrive, and so on. 
I cannot give the honourable member a guarantee that he will get it tomorrow. 1 can give him an assurance that it will be given to him as soon as possible. 
Really, so misconceived is the motion; so misconceived is the interjection 'In a month's time'. My colleagues have been making abundantly clear how urgent this matter is. They have been emphasising that. The honourable gentleman has been making no attempt up to this moment to emphasise how important it is. The one contribution the honourable gentleman made was When he gave an assurance that the Opposition would facilitate the passage of the Bill. We accept that assurance. It is rather in contrast to what was said this morning in relation to the business of the House. We hope that the assurance the honourable gentleman has given will be honoured not merely by the honourable gentleman but by the entire Labor Party. 
A very great number of demands have been made on various employers for a 35-hour working week. Usually such demands are accompanied by claims for increases in wages or improvements in conditions. There was a strike on Friday last in Victoria by members of the Australian Meat Industry Employees Union - in relation to a claim for a 35-hour working week. I think about 2,500 men were involved. There is no doubt that on the basis of the Labor Party's platform there will be a continued industrial and political campaign mounted in relation to a 35-hour working week. The Labor Party platform clearly and explicitly states that the Labor Party wants a 35-hour working week. Another item in its platform says that the Parliament should have the power to award conditions by legislation. So the combination of the two would - but for constitutional reasons, I hope - empower a Labor Government to provide a 35-hour working week. It is interesting, of course, that the Leader of the Opposition has not so far proclaimed his attitude on a 35-hour working week. 
I know of no claim before the Arbitration Commission for a 35-hour week, although, in answer to an earlier question, 1 referred to a strike last Friday by the Australian Meat Industry Employees Union in Victoria. That was. referred to the Commission under a section 28 notification, but that is not what the honourable gentleman had in mind, 1 think. He had in mind whether or not a formal application had been made by any parties at all. If such an application were made it would need to be considered under section 33 of the Act. The Commonwealth could intervene in the public interest. In intervening in the public interest no doubt the Commonwealth would put arguments along the line that if such a provision were made by the Commission it would have tremendous inflationary pressures; it would have social disadvantages by reallocating savings and income, and therefore the Commission ought to look at it in terms of whether of not it is in the interest of the Australian people, and especially of the work force, to squander takehome pay. That would be the attitude of the Government. I understand that tomorrow night the Leader of the Opposition will be opening Pandora's Box, and perhaps he will tell us then what his attitude is to a 35-hour week. 
The honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor)  spoke of the Trade Practices Act with a lack of understanding of its purpose, its thrust and the success that it has achieved. The major purpose of the Act at the time it was introduced was to provide means of examining those users of domi nant economic power or of collective arrangements. It was known then that there would be a period of time before it would be possible for the Act to have its full impact. This is in the process now. The constitutional power that the Commonwealth possesses in relation to this matter is now being tested. The one thing that the honourable member did not mention but which must be made abundantly clear, from personal experience and from the reports of the Commissioner of Trade Practices, is that the Act already has achieved the result of seeing the end of a great number of collective price fixing arrangements. This would not have happened without that Act. It has been effective and as time goes on I am sure it will be more effective. 
We are speaking about a curious topic. lt is as though the Opposition asked all of its members to submit a topic, then mixed them together and pulled out three. Out came rural affairs, inflationary pressures and the Trade Practices Act. There has been a rather weak effort to pull them together in one debate but quite clearly the debate has been disjointed. The honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  talked about a wide range of things unconnected with the subject dealt with by the honourable member for Cunningham. No doubt what was said by those 2 speakers will be unconnected with what the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  has yet to say. It will be interesting to see how the Opposition puts these 3 things together. 
As has been said frequently in recent times we in Australia are facing inflationary pressures and the Government has the responsibility of dealing with them. The Government is dealing with them and dealing with them very effectively. Let me remind the House that over the last 4 years average weekly earnings in Australia have increased by 7 per cent annually while in the same period prices have increased by 3 per cent per annum. The net result of this therefore must be that our standard of living has been increasing at a rate of 4 per cent a year over the last 4 years. 
In bringing up this matter as one of public importance and an issue of urgency at the moment the Opposition quite clearly has illustrated that it has not looked at the figures or. if it has, that it does not understand them. In the first  6  months of this year prices were increasing at an annual rate of  41  per cent. In one quarter the increase in prices was such that it represented an annual rate of increase of over  5  per cent. But quite clearly members of the Opposition have not seen the Statistician's figures for the quarter ended in September which show that the price increase fell back to, if my recollection is correct,  0.6  per cent or an overall annual rate of  2.4  per cent, which is less than the average over the last  4  years. Overlooking this statistic in order to launch some sort of attack makes it perfectly clear that the Opposition does not understand. 
The Opposition says that the Government is railing to control prices in Australia. It wants some grand scheme. The honourable member for Dawson said that economic conditions today are vastly different from what they were in post-war years when a referendum on price control failed. I will say they are different - vastly different. Honourable members will recall those days of a Labor Government when unemployment in Australia was  4  or  5  per cent. They will recall that to find an overaward payment could take a week's search. The economic conditions of today are vastly different and they are what they are because of  20  years of coalition government by the Liberal and Country Parties. That is why we have been returned consistently to office - because of our performance. The honourable gentleman says that we have failed abysmally in maintaining price stability. Regarding price stability I will name  3  European countries, and I have no doubt that if I invited the honourable member to interject he would tell me what wonderful economic performances they have put up in recent years. I refer to France, the United Kingdom and the Netherlands. Perhaps he would deny that the United Kingdom has had a good performance in the last  4  years because, after all, the United Kingdom had a Socialist Government for most of that time. So we will leave it out. But what about France and the Netherlands? He would say that they have had good economic performances. The fact is, of course, that United Nations figures disclose that in France the price increase has been  0.9  per cent and in the Netherlands  1.7  per cent greater than the increase in Australia. Yet the honourable member says that we have failed in controlling prices. 
Over the last  2  decades we have had full employment. At present we have full employment to the extent that if we want to draw a distinction between the full employment of last month and the full employment of this month, or of any  2  months, we have to go to  2  decimal places to describe it. What about unemployment in the United Kingdom, North America - the United States and Canada - or the Asian countries? In Asia and Africa they do not merely measure unemployment, they measure under-employment. There is no country that does not envy our performance in the control of inflation and in the full employment of our work force. But we live in an atmosphere today which encourages the cost-push inflationary pressure, and the cost-push inflationary pressure is attributable principally to  2  factors - to the increases in award rates granted by the various tribunals in the country and to union pushfulness. This is the pushfulness of powerful trade union leaders possessed of great industrial power and using it to force employers, by the use of naked force, to grant them wage increases and increases in conditions which the economy really cannot afford in real terms. Of course it can afford them in money terms, but when we are talking about an economy we are talking about it in real terms. Of course one can produce the money to pay. There is always capacity to pay in that sense but, make no mistake about it, paying is not just from the employer to the employee or from the wage payer to the wage receiver; the paying is done by the community because of the inflationary pressures. The vice of inflation, I assure honourable members, whether they know it or not, is the redistribution of income and assets in our community so that the persons who have assets or past savings, or who are wage earners in the non-powerful industrial areas, are the people who suffer. 
There are old union members in the Opposition who have come up through experience in unions that have no industrial power. If they can sit there and say that it is in the interests of Australia, or of those trade unions to whom they owe their allegiance and loyalty, I am surprised. They are being led; they are submissive to the strength and power of industrial musclemen, and it is time they learned the difference. Perhaps the honourable member for Dawson has never been a member of a union or, if he has, it was of a union that possesses little power - of a union that possesses little capacity to influence political events. He is therefore at ease, but what about other honourable members? How many of them these days represent solid trade unions which are concerned for egalitarian principles and the protection of the 85 per cent of the Australian work force which depend on not having inflation for the preservation of their conditions? But the Australian Labor Party, to which they all belong and to which they all contribute, has as its policy a working week to consist of not more than 5 consecutive days with a maximum of 35 hours and with a progressive reduction to 30 hours. In 1969, at their conference, they adopted the following proposal: 
The conference considers that an effective political campaign be undertaken in conjunction wilh the ACTU to achieve our objective of a 35-hour week. 
Why would not the honourable member for Dawson say he supports that? Why would not the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  say he supports it? Do they deny the Labor Party policy or do they not possess the courage to say: 'This is wrong' or, alternatively: 'I won't support it because the inflationary impact it will have will be so harmful to the community that the community will bear the scars for a decade' and they will bear the responsibility? 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am advised that since 1956, when the office of the Conciliator was created, about 3,700 disputes have been referred under section 30 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act to the various holders of that office. Whilst there have been a few occasions on which Conciliators have been requested by the parties to decide a dispute in pursance of section 30(4), at least 95 per cent of such disputes have not involved the Conciliators beyond their conciliatory function. I. am also advised that a detailed examination of the files is unlikely to produce any greater precision than this. Perhaps I should add that it could be argued that only a fine line may separate formal arbitration under section 30(4) from the securing by the Conciliator of a settlement of the issues between the parties without a formal process of arbitration. 
The answer I provided to the honourable member's question is set out at pages 1161-1167 of Hansard of 15th September 1970. 1 now provide the following information to supplement that answer: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The study referred to by the honourable member was based on data obtained from records held in the Principal Registry of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and, as explained in answer to a question without notice in the House on 22nd April 1970, 'the investigation required literally going through thousands and thousands of pages of transcript'. Since the study was designed to produce information only in the form in which it has already been published, it is not practicable to provide the further detail now sought by the honourable member. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  1 am advised that: 
The dates are 22nd May 1959, 6th June 1961, 28th May 1965. 24th June 1970. 
The Act has been amended on 16 occasions since 1958. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am advised that the answer to this question is no'. 
The  answer  to  the  hon  ourable member's question is as follows: 
Statistics of industrial disputes classified by each of 16 industry groups for each State and for Australia and showing the numbers of disputes and working days lost during the first 6 months of 1970 are set out in the Commonwealth Statistician's quarterly mimeographed bulletins - reference No. 6.6. 
I would advise the honourable gentleman to read the speech again. He paid me the compliment of some knowledge and I would suggest to him with the same courtesy that he elevate his knowledge about what I said to the same level. The point I was making - 1 am certain that it is theoretically correct- was that wages ought not to move beyond the underlying productivity improvement. I then went on to say that in fact I did not see this as an achievable result because wages are given in a variety of different ways and tribunals have been granting wages beyond the productivity improvement. Employers have been granting wages or conditions that have been demanded by unions which have threatened direct action if they are not granted. On many occasions employers have been weak. I therefore said that if the Arbitration Commission was to pursue this policy it would be necessary for it actually to give award rates below the productivity level. Everything that I said was predicated on the basis of the maintenance of the arbitration system, and that remains the policy of this Party and the Government. 
The Opposition has a different attitude to the arbitration system. The Opposition would be prepared to strike down the arbitration system. There are plenty of examples of this. For example, in 1969 the Australian Labor Party adopted as a resolution the need for an effective political campaign in association with the Australian Council of Trade Unions to achieve a 35- hour week. Now, the Leader of the Opposition has a policy directive to him to achieve an effective political campaign. But so far the Leader of the Opposition has refused to say whether he is in favour of a 35-hour week or not. The honourable member for Dawson yesterday refused to say whether he was in favour of a 35-hour week or not. The fact of the matter remains that they do have a policy directive to launch an effective political campaign for a 35-hour week. They have illustrated in the last few months the capacity to combine with the Australian Council of Trade Unions for the purpose of political strikes. There is a number of examples of political strikes. One was the late lamented attempt to have the entire work force of Australia go on strike in support of the Opposition Leader's speech on the Budget and the opposition to it. 
It was a unity ticket and it failed. Another example, of course, was the call for a national stoppage in support of the Moratorium. That was a blatant use of industrial power to serve political purposes- 
... and that is what the policy requires in relation to the 35-hour week. 
While this case is before the Commission I will say nothing about it. The instructions that will be given to Commonwealth counsel are being worked out at present. They will be made known when they are delivered by  Mr Keely,  QC, who appears for the Commonwealth. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to provide for the fixing of remuneration for members of the Australian Film Development Corporation. Honourable members will recall that during the autumn si' tings of the Parliament 7 Bills were amended during passage in this House or in the other place. By that I mean the Senate. The purpose of the amendments was to provide that salaries or remuneration for the relevant holders of statutory offices would be as the Parliament provides rather than by determination of the Governor-General. For 3 of these Bills, it was possible to meet the requirement that Parliament rather than the Government determine the salary by inclusion of provision in the Schedule to the Appropriation Bill, which has recently been before the House. I mention, for example, the remuneration for members of the Metric Conversion Board. 
However, a provision of this kind was not appropriate for 4 of the Acts amended during passage last May and June. This is because the 4 bodies created by the Acts meet their administrative expenses, including salaries, from funds which under the terms of the legislation are under their own control and are not provided directly or annually from the Consolidated Revenue Fund. Accordingly, it would not be practicable to fix and appropriate the relevant salaries or remuneration in the Schedule to the annual Appropriation Acts. The Bill now under consideration - The Australian Film Development Corporation Bill - provides that section 8 of the Act is to be amended so as to specify the rates of remuneration for members of the Corporation. This means that the Parliament itself, rather than the Government, is determining the rate for members of the Corporation. The new provision will apply to all payments to members of the Corporation, thereby making it unnecessary to promulgate the regulations which were to have provided the remuneration until 1st January next year. 
The fees which it is the sole purpose of this Bill to authorise are: For the  Chairman  of the Film Development Corporation, $40 for a meeting of 3 hours or more and $25 if the meeting lasts less than 3 hours. Other members of the Corporation are to be paid $35 for a meeting of 3 hours or more. $20 if it takes under 3 hours. I add that I propose to introduce immediately following this Bill 3 further Bills which have the same object. In these cases also, the amendments made by the Parliament during May and June are such that the salaries required can only be paid after let January next if the Parliament has in some way provided for the payment. For these reasons the legislation will need to be passed by both House in the current sittings. 
The 3 further Bills are: Export Payments Insurance Corporation Bill (No. 2) 1970; Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation Bill (No. 2) 1970, and the Stevedoring Industry (Temporary Provisions) Bill (No. 2) 1970. 
Leave granted for second reading to be moved forthwith. 
 in reply - These are standard daily sitting fees paid to part time statutory office holders who are not remunerated by an annual fee. They are paid to such office holders as members of the Manufacturing Industries Advisory Council and the Export Development Council. They cannot be called salaries because the positions are part time, and fees have the connotation of a payment for services. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I have explained the background to this Bill  in my  second reading speech  on  the Australian Film Development Corporation Bill (No. 2). By this Bill the Parliament will fix the salaries for the Commissioner, and any Acting Commissioner, of the Export Payments Insurance Corporation. The salary of the Commissioner  is  fixed  at  $16,931 a year. The salary for the Acting Commissioner  is  the same  -  -$16,931. Perhaps the honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart)  may wish to know how this figure is arrived  at.  The figure of $16,931  is  not precisely the same  as  that set down for level 5  of  the Second Division of the Public Service. However,  it  is the salary paid to like officers who are graded at about level 5 of the Second Division of the Public Service but who are employed in outside instrumentalities. The  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board and the  Chairman  of the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation would be examples. 
Leave granted for second reading  to  proceed forthwith. 
 I move: 
That the  Bill  be now read a second  time. 1 have explained the background to this Bill in my second reading speech on the Australian Film Development Corporation Bill (No. 2). By this Bill, the Parliament will fix a salary for the Assistant Directors of the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation at the rate of $15,592 a year. It is not necessary at this stage to determine the salary for the Director of the Corporation. This is because the duties of the position of Director will for the time being be carried out by the person holding the office of Commissioner of the Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Authority. The Bill lays it down that any salary payable to the Director will be as the Parliament provides. An appropriate further Bill will need to be introduced when the need arises to determine a salary for the Director. 
Again anticipating the honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart),  the salary set out in the Bill is slightly more than level 4 of the Second Division of the Public Service. Other examples are Associate Commissioners of the National Capital Development Commission. 
Leave granted for second reading to proceed forthwith. 
 in reply - I just make these 2 points quickly. The honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart)  will realise that this is the salary for the Assistant Dire.tor. The salary for the Director has to be fixed when he comes to require salary because he comes into the office solely. I will make sure that the remarks of the honourable member are brought to the attention of the Public Service Board. This leads me to make my second point, which is that the worst thing I think we could arrive at is if we, as Parliament, tried to fix salaries. I m sure the honourable gentleman will realise the point. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I have explained the background to this Bill in my second reading speech on the Australian Film Development Corporation Bill. By this Bill, the Parliament will fix the salary for the Director of the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority. Thesalary of the Director will be $11,822 a year. This is the same as the salary for officers at Level 1 in the Second Division of the Public Service. 
Leave granted for second reading debate to proceed forthwith. 
 in reply -  Mr Deputy Speaker,  the reason for this provision being in the Stevedoring Industry (Temporary Provisions) Bill (No. 2) (1970) is that when the Senate amended the original legislation it required that the Parliament should determine the salaries. The method adopted here is for the rate to be fixed. The salary does not come out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund. The Senate also required that allowances be by prescription. This means that the regulation has to be made to say what the travelling allowance is. It is capable of being disallowed. That is why it has to be in. 
I am reminded by my colleague, the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr N. H. Bowen),  who was with me when we considered these Bills that the reason why no reference is made to this matter of allowances in the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation Bill (No. 2) 1970; to which the honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart)  referred, is that provision exists in the Principal Act for allowances to be as prescribed. This amendment will put in a salary. When the salary goes in it will fit with sub-clause (2.). This is amending sub-clause (1.) as I recollect it. Subclause (2.) is in the existing Act. That picks up the salary point. There was no such provision in the Stevedoring Industry (Temporary Provisions) Act. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Convention No. 104 - Abolition of Penal Sanctions (Indigenous Workers) 1955 provides that a ratifying country shall take action for the abolition of penal sanctions for breaches of contracts of employment by workers belonging to or assimilated to the dependent indigenous population of the country. 'Breach of contract' means refusal or failure to commence or perform the service stipulated in the contract, neglect of duty or lack of diligence, absence without permission or valid reason and desertion. 
Under clause 42(g) of the Federal Pastoral Industry Award, an employee forfeits one week's earnings to his employer when he 'leaves his employment otherwise than as provided in subclause (d) or (e) of this clause. . . ' Sub-clauses (d) and (e) relate to discharge for incompetence, misconduct or absence from work through illness under specified conditions, to departure from employment in consequence of accident, sickness or other urgent necessity or with the permission of the employer, or, in the case of certain cooks in joint messes to discharge at the request of members of the mess. Whereas the Convention applies only to workers belonging to or assimilated to the dependent indigenous population of a country, the award applies to employees covered by it regardless of their race. 
Brazil, Central African Republic, China, Colombia, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Iran, Liberia, Libya, Malawi, Morocco, New Zealand, Niger, Nigeria, Portugal, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Tunisia. United Arab Republic, Yemen. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As I explained in my press statement of5th May 1970 when announcing the establishment of the Committee on Women's Employment, the Committee, which is consultative and advisory in character, advises through the National Labour Advisory Council, the Government and the Department of Labour and National Service on questions relating to the employment of women in the work force. Its charter is broad but like the Council itself, it does not ordinarily become involved in matters which have been or are likely to be the subject of claims before arbitral tribunals. The subject of equal pay falls into this category. 
On the assumption that the honourable member is referring to the nine principles set down by the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in its 1969 Equal Pay Case decision the Commonwealth proposes to abide by the principles. 
The Commission's nine principles set out in its 1969 Equal Pay Case decision are concerned with determining whether female workers employed under particular Federal awards should be granted the same pay rates as males and are not concerned with determining minimum rates of pay for adult males. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The matter referred to in the first part of the honourable member's question is under consideration and hence I am not able to indicate whether the Government will introduce legislation to amend the Conciliation and Arbitration Act along the lines suggested by the  President  of the Commonwealth and Arbitration Commission. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Productivity Promotion Council of Australia receives executive and administrative assistance from the Productivity Promotion Branch of my Department. 
With the indulgence of the House, I indicate the explanation is that I agreed to this proposal at the request of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard).  It would have been my preference to deal with the Bills as they appear on the notice paper. 
We will deal with it tonight. After the Bankruptcy Bill has been dealt with, the arrangement is that the honourable member for Melbourne Ports should then speak on the Loan (Defence) Bill. After he has spoken on it and after a member on the Government side of the House has spoken on it the debate will  be  adjourned and tomorrow morning it will be relisted as the first item on the notice paper and the Deputy Leader of the Opposition will speak to it then. It is an arrangement to meet his convenience. 
That was the arrangement. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
by leave - I move: 
That the following Orders of the Day, Government Business, be discharged: 
No. 31 Armed services pay - Ministerial statement - Motion to take note of paper: Resumption of debate on the motion, That the House take note of the paper. 
No. 32 British entry to the European Economic Community - Consequences tor Australian trade - Ministerial statement - Motion to take note of paper: Resumption of debate on the motion, That the House take note of the paper. 
No. 33 Employment training scheme to assist married and single women - Ministerial statement - Motion to take note of paper: Resumption of debate on  the motion, That the House take note of the paper. 
No. 34 Education Programme 1970-71  -  Ministerial statement - Motion to take note of paper: Resumption of debate on the motion, That the House take note of the paper. 
No. 33 Wool industry assistance - Ministerial statement - Motion to take note of paper: Resumption of debate on the motion, That the House take note of the paper. 
No. 36 Vietnam - Ministerial statement - Motion to take note of paper: Resumption of debate on the motion, That the House take note of the paper. 
No. 37 Defence - Ministerial statement - Motion to take note of paper: Resumption of debate on the motion, That the House take note of the paper. 
No. 38 Foreign Affairs - Ministerial statement - Motion to take note of paper: Resumption of debate on the motion, That the House take note of the paper. 
No. 39 R.A.A.F. - Procurement of strike bomber capability - Ministerial statement and paper - Motion to take note of papers: Resumption of debate on the motion. That the House take note of the papers. 
No. 40 High Court and National Art Gallery sites - Ministerial statement - Motion to take note of paper: Resumption of debate on the motion. That the House take note of the paper. 
No. 41 Cambodia - Ministerial statement - Motion to take note of paper: Resumption of debate on the motion, That the House take note of the paper. 
No. 43 Aboriginal Aged Persons Homes Trust - Ministerial statement and paper - Motion to take note of paper: Resumption of debate on the motion. That the House take note of the papers. 
No. 44 Aboriginal sacred places in the Wingellina area, W.A. - Ministerial statement - Motion to take note of paper: Resumption of debate on the motion, That the House take note of the paper. 
No. 45 Health benefits - Ministerial statement - Motion to take note of paper: Resumption of debate on the motion, That the House take note of the paper. 
No. 46 Papua and New Guinea House of Assembly - Ministerial members - Ministerial statement and paper - Motion to take note of papers: Resumption of debate on the motion, That the House take note of the papers. 
No. 47 Papua and New Guinea - Imputation against public servant - Ministerial statement - Motion to take note of paper: Resumption of debate on the motion, That the House take note of the paper. 
No. 48 Migration Agreement with Yugoslavia - Paper and ministerial statement - Motion to take note of papers: Resumption of debate on the motion. That the House take note of the papers. 
No. 49 Papua and New Guinea - Warmaram group - Ministerial statement - Motion to take note of paper: Resumption of debate, on the motion. That the House take note of the paper. 
It is customary, at no regular interval but as frequently as possible, to cleanse the notice paper. It is necessary to do this each day because, as honourable members know, the notice paper has to be printed and everything on it has to be included. Periodically it is desirable to remove certain matters from it. There have been conversations between myself and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  and between people on our behalf. This is the agreed list. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Article 119 of the Treaty which member countries of the European Economic Community signed in Rome in 1957 provides that each Member State shall ensure and maintain the application of the principle of equal remuneration for equal work as between men and women workers. 'Remuneration' is defined in the Article as meaning 'the ordinary basic or minimum wage or salary and any additional emoluments whatsoever payable directly or indirectly, whether in cash or in kind, by the employer to the worker and arising out of the worker's employment'. Equal remuneration without discrimination based on sex means '(a) that remuneration for the same work at piece-rates shall be calculated on the basis of the same unit of measurement; and (b) that remuneration for work at time-rates shall be the same for the same job'. 
By a resolution of 31st December 1961 Member States agreed on a timetable for implementing Article 119 whereby discriminatory wage differentials were to be progressively reduced and finally abolished by the end of 1964. On the basis of subsequent reports of the European Commission and of comments in (he reports of the ILO Committee of Experts on the Application of Conventions and Recommendations, it appears that full effect has not yet been given to Article 119 in all countries which are parties to the Treaty of Rome. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (4) Opposition members of the Commonwealth Parliament have never been included in delegations to conferences or meetings of the International Labour Organisation. During the period 1944-1947 it was customary for a Minister to lead the Government delegation to conferences of the I.L.O., with one or more members of the Government as members of the delegation. Late in 1947 this practice was discontinued by a decision of the then Prime Minister,  Mr Chifley.  Since 1953 Ministers for Labour and National Service have attended the conference in Geneva, not as a delegate but in accordance with I.L.O. custom as 'Minister attending the conference'. This practice was varied in 1957, when the then Minister for Labour and National Service, the late  Mr Harold  Holt, was included as a delegate because it was known that it was likely that he would be elected  President  of the Conference, and it is usual for the  President  of the Conference to be appointed from delegates. He was, in fact, elected  President. 
and (6) The main business lit an l.L.O. conference is conducted by means of technical committees which sit simultaneously throughout the greater part of the conference. In order that the Government can be represented on the various committees which concern it, in appointing the delegation it is necessary to take into account their suitability in relation to the technical items on the agenda. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2)I refer the honourable member to my news release of 26th May 1970 which announced the results of a study of alleged delays in proceedings before the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. The study was based on 600 sittings of the Commission in 1969 and examined the time taken, after filing, for a matter to come on for hearing and of the time taken to complete the bearing. The expenditure of staff resources needed to undertake the more extensive study suggested by the honourable member would not be justified. 
Tertiary Education: Courses in Social Work  (Question No. 1647) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) I am advised that as at 19th October 1970, the following hearings were current before the Public Service Arbitrator and Deputy Public Service Arbitrators involving the parties shown: 
I am aware of the facts as recited by the honourable gentleman. Anybody who read the statement issued by the parties would equally be aware of exactly those same facts. When the parties have finished their discussions they will no doubt issue another statement so that all of us will likewise be informed of the facts in the same way. 
There is a great misunderstanding on the part of the mover and seconder of this motion as to what the regulation is directed to do and what in fact it achieves. For the benefit of the 2 honourable members who have spoken in the debate and indeed of every other honourable member in the House who wishes to listen, 1 think it is necessary to recount a little of the way in which the regulation has operated and to explain how it will operate in the future. Under the National Service Act statutory provision is made for liability of people to serve up until 30 years of age. Under the Act there is power for the Minister to declare classes of people who will be given deferment. The deferment is of 2 kinds: It is temporary deferment or it is unlimited deferment. Unlimited deferment has in the past been given to everybody over 26 years of age. This has had the consequence that if a man does not perform his service up to the age of 26 years he will come into the position where he will not need to render service because he will have an indefinite deferment. 
The other classes of people who have been given deferment have been given limited deferment, that is, deferment while they have been students undertaking a course. People over 26 years of age were deferred indefinitely and people up to 26 years of age could be deferred for the period of their studentship. We then find the situation where some students having got an arts degree have found it necessary to go on to get a master of arts degree in order to make their qualification creditable for the work force. So the regulations were amended for the purpose of allowing somebody to take a post-graduate course after he reaches 26 years of age. If this amendment had not been introduced, a student would have been forced to go into the Army before he bad completed the training which he needed, and of course this was undesirable. So the regulations were amended to allow us to defer the call-up of that person beyond 26 years of age. 
Upon review I have come to the conclusion that that capacity to extend deferment beyond the age of 26 years should not be limited to people taking post-graduate degrees, because it is quite clear that if a person is doing a course, such as medicine, which may take him beyond the age of 26 years we would not want to be in the position where we had to call him up for service in the Army. Before the regulation was amended we had to call that person up before he was 26 years old, and by calling him up in those circumstances he could complete his course. So the purpose in amending the regulations was to allow us to defer people doing a primary course beyond the age of 26 years, just as we defer people doing a post-graduate course beyond the age of 26 years. 
Having decided to do that, which 1 think is proper - and in a moment I will give, honourable members a breakdown of the sort of people who are affected - we found this completely inequitable situation with the young man who had registered and, having registered and applied for a student deferment, had obtained a student deferment. He went on and completed his education at the age of, say, 27 years. He was then liable to be called up for national service, after having completed his education at the age of 27 years, but the person who has done absolutely nothing about registration, who had evaded all his obligations, who had concealed himself, was free of all obligations if he concealed himself successfully until the age of 26 years. It was quite inequitable for the man who had concealed himself to have his obligation to serve evaporate, whereas the man who had complied all the way through, who had obtained a student deferment, had to go into the Army when he reached 27 years of age. So what I recommended should be done was to extend the period of liability for service right up to the statutory limit of 30 years. This enables complete freedom to defer students so that they can complete their course, whatever it is, and not have to call them up before they have completed their course simply because they have reached the age of 26 years. 
The honourable member says that this was done to help the silvertails. 1 will come to that. I understand that the Opposition must be objecting to this regulation for one of two reasons. The first is that it objects to the regulation because it is in favour of disadvantaging the student against the evader. For all that the Opposition opposes national service I do not attribute that motive to the Opposition, but if that is the motive of the Opposition I would like to say so quite clearly and unequivocally. Assuming for a moment that it is not the motive of the Opposition to advantage the evader against the student so that it would have the evader not serve and the student do so, the only other purpose can be that there is an assumption on the part of the Opposition that the regulation will benefit what the Opposition calls the 'silvertail' - that is the person who is a student at university - as against the non-silvertail whom the Opposition describes as the apprentice. 1 did not have in mind that the Opposition which denies class consciousness was prepared to adopt a class conscious attitude in order to justify its stand on this regulation. What the Opposition is saying is that it denies the right of a university student to be deferred because he is a silvertail'. My experience of university students is quite the reverse. The honourable member for Wills put his argument on the basis that there will be more undergraduates from Kew than there will be from Northcote and Brunswick. 1 think they were the other 2 suburbs he mentioned. Whether that be true or not I do not know. If there is advantage in being born of parents in Kew rather than being born of parents in Brunswick or Northcote I think it is a rather temporary and unreal advantage. I think that the majority of people in this place- 
1 was about to say that perhaps the only disadvantage they do have is in that representation but I wonder how they can possibly make any representation. The honourable member would not let them talk. He would do all the talking. I will give to the Opposition 5 reasons why this regulation is necessary. Then I will give the numbers which will disclose the invalidity of the suggestion that it somehow benefits 'silvertails'. The definition of silvertail', according to the honourable member for Wills, includes university students. 
Yes, university students being privileged persons whom the Opposition says it does not represent and indeed opposes. The first reason is that a man may take on a course of longer than normal duration. Medicine and architecture are such examples. In Victoria, for example, a technical teacher traineeship may extend up to 8 years. We have covered those people rather than call them up for service when they are 25 and they perhaps have 1 year to go to finish their training. It must be extended for those persons. The second group are those who are undertaking a course which has a natural progression to further study or training. To give a simple illustration, this may be a B.A. followed by an M.A. Thirdly, men may transfer from one course of training to study another, necessitating a longer period for eventual completion. An example is a young man who undertakes a science course and during the course transfers to a medicine course. 
In the fourth group are those persons whose study course extends beyond the normal date of completion. These people may be young men who have failed in a year. But the officers in the Department do not make the judgment as to whether deferment should be granted for student continuation. This is done by the educational authorities themselves. If they allow the person to continue his studies, we recognise this. Fifthly - and here are some more of these 'silvertails' we are protecting, according to the honourable member for Wills - we have young men undertaking their courses on a part time basis who cannot undertake them on a full time basis because they do not have the financial resources to do it. These 'silvertails* will not be able to do that if we accept the motion moved by the honourable member for Wills. He is not only against the undergraduate; he is against the other fellow whom he started out to protect. The illogicality of his argument is manifest. 
The sort of courses where people are deferred for this reason and who will now be able to complete their training include - and I want honourable members opposite to listen to these 'silvertails': Fitters, toolmakers, draughtsmen, laboratory technicians and technicians who have completed apprenticeships or courses of training and are now doing a diploma of mechanical engineering. On the argument of the honourable member for Wills, we should not let those 'silvertails' have the benefit of this. Other examples are printers, electricians, fitters and radio technicians who have completed apprenticeships and who are now doing higher trade certificates; electronic technicians proceeding to a certificate in electrical engineering: building industry employees pursuing certificate courses in building technology, bricklayers, foremen builders, etc.; draftsmen proceeding to diplomas in architecture and civil engineering; metallurgists, industrial chemists and laboratory technicians proceeding to diplomas of science; and men pursuing various degrees including dentists, teachers, doctors, computer programmers, finance officers and bank officers. 
There are 7,712 students who are being considered for deferment as students. They include 4,078 who are undertaking degree courses at universities. Only 144 of them have prolonged their deferment by undertaking post-graduate studies. And 3,634 are undertaking non-degree courses - that is, at other than a university and including technical college courses. There are 5,612 trainees who are being considered for deferment as trainees. Of that number 3,828 are apprentices in the various apprenticeship courses and 1,326 are not apprentices but are undergoing recognised courses of training. There are 1,000 registrants at the moment who want deferment and in whose interest it is essential that this regulation survive. If this regulation does not survive these young men will have to be called up into the Army before they complete their training. What sort of men are they? They are certainly not silvertails'. This regulation is quite consistent with our policy and I think it would be consistent with the views of everybody in the community including those who are opposed to national service but who. accepting that national service exists, would want these young men to be able to complete their training before they entered the Army. It will benefit them for their future to complete their training now and it will benefit them for their reestablishment. I ask the House to reject the motion because it is quite ill-founded. 
Having listened to the arguments that have been advanced, I am quite sure that what the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown)  has said is correct in law, and I rather feel that the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  would find himself, as a lawyer, not departing from it very greatly. However, sometimes in politics, as at the bar, a man has to put an argument with which he does not completely agree. Therefore I am quite sure that the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory would recognise some merit in the arguments that have been put against his amendment. 
The information which has been collated for the honourable member is too lengthy and complex to be published in 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following instruments were adopted by the 55th (Maritime) Session of the International Labour Conference: 
Convention concerning Crew Accommodation on Board Ship (supplementary provisions). 
Recommendation concerning Air Conditioning of Crew Accommodation and Certain Other Spaces on Board Ship. 
Recommendation concerning Control of Harmful Noise in Crew Accommodation and Working Spaces on Board Ship. 
Recommendation concerning Employment Problems arising from Technical Developments on Board Ship. 
Convention concerning the Prevention of Occupational Accidents to Seafarers. 
Recommendation concerning the Prevention of Occupational Accidents to Seafarers. 
Recommendation concerning Vocational Training of Seafarers. 
Recommendation concerning Seafarers' Welfare at Sea and in Port. 
The Australian Government delegates supported the adoption of all the instruments. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth Statistician has provided the following information: 
(a) and (b) The total annual amounts of premiums and claims in respect of workmen's compensation insurance in each State are shown in the following tables. Similar information is not available for the Northern Territory or the Australian Capital Territory. 
The information which would be necessary in order to calculate the percentage of each year's premiums paid out in claims under workmen's compensation insurance is not available. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
and . (3) The Government accepts that in setting wage and salary rates it is appropriate for tribunals to ' consider the factors mentioned, but the extent lo which all or any of those factors may influence the determination . of particular wage claims will depend on all of the circumstances of the case, including over-riding considerations such its the state of the economy and its capacity to pay any wage increase contemplated. 
Counsel representing -the Commonwealth in industrial proceedings will be given appropriate instructions in the light of the nature of those proceedings and all the circumstances existing at the lime. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 1 am advised that there is no provision made by law for annual leave or sick leave for Presidential members of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. The Conciliation and Arbitration Act provides that a Commissioner may not absent himself from duly for 14 consecutive days or for 28 days in any 12 months, without leave from the Minister for Labour and National Service. A similar provision exists in the Public Service Arbitration Act in respect of the Public Service Arbitrator and a  Deputy  Public Service Arbitrator. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following are the names of those members of trade unions in respect of whom, since 1st January 1967. a Registrar has directed that financial assistance be given pursuant to regulation 138 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Regulations. 
As at 16in November 1970. claims have been passed for payment in respect of those persons whose names are marked with an asterisk: 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am advised that the information asked for is not readily available. To obtain it would involve an unjustifiable expenditure of time and staff resources. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) My reply to the honourable member's question No. 1010 (Hansard, 3rd June 1970, page 2874) did not indicate and was not intended to imply that the Government did not make submissions during the Equal Pay Case of 1969 on principles that the Commission should follow in determining equal pay. The text of the Submissions made by the Commonwealth in the Equal Pay Case 1969 ran into 78 pages. I shall send the honourable member a copy. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question1 is as follows: 
The reasons for the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission refusing lo certify agreements under section, OM of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act in .that they were not in the public interest are set out in the decisions of the Commissioners refusing certification. The references are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) What may be included in an award made by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in settlement of a dispute depends upon such matters as the ambit of the dispute, the definition of 'industrial matters' in me Conciliation and Arbitration Act and, the meaning of industrial dispute' in the constitutional sense. 
The relevant powers of a presidential member are as set out in section 33a of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act 1904-1970. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I would draw the honourable member's attention to the answer 1 provided to his Question No. 1534. 
At page 72 of Hansard for 25 th February 1969, the then Minister for Labour and National Service provided an answer to 'Question No. 1026 setting out detailed information on cases in which Arbitration Inspectors had launched prosecutions against employers for breaches of awards made pursuant lo the Conciliation and .Arbitration Act. I am advised that many other prosecutions of a similar nature have been instituted over the years by unions. I am not aware" if, in' any of these cases, it was alleged by ah employer that he was unable to pay rates fixed by the award because those rates were 'uneconomic'; 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I would draw the  honourable member's attention to the answer I provided to his Question No. 1534. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
About one-fifth of the awards of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission contain a provision for the posting of copies of such awards on the premises of lbc employers bound by such awards. 
1 am inclined to the. view that this is a matter best left to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and to the parlies to disputes before thai body to deal with in the awardmaking process. 
The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
It is not possible to provide a figure for the Australian civilian workforce as at 30th June as survey-based estimates of the Australian civilian workforce are published quarterly by the Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics for February, May, August and November. 
The total number of persons in the Australian civilian workforce as at May 1967, 1968, 1969 and 1,970 is shown in the following table. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am advised that: 
There are records of each successful application for a rule nisi but no records of unsuccessful applications. 
' and (3) Applications for a ride nisi are made directly  to  a judge ex parte in his chambers or at his home. If the application is granted the applicant is required  to  file the rule and supporting affidavit with the Registrar (Regulation 70). If the application is refused there is no rule lo file and there would be no record of the application in the Industrial Registry. 
Papua and New Guinea: ILO Conventions  (Question  No. 1950)  Mr Clyde  Cameron asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
What is the legal difficulty which prevents the Commonwealth from ratifying- and implementing in the -Northern Territory and in the Territory  of 
Papua and New Guinea the International Labour Organisation Convention No. 82 relating to discriminatory wage rates on grounds of race or colour. 
MrSnedden ; The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  1LO Convention No. 82 - Social Policy (NonMetropolitan Territories), 1947, relates only to external territories and, therefore, does not have any application in the Northern Territory. The Convention covers a- wide range of matters and prescribes detailed policies and measures which ratifying countries undertake to apply in their non-metropolitan territories. The policies to be followed are directed to the well-being and development of the peoples in such territories and to the promotion of the desire on their part for social progress. In particular, they are directed to the improvement of standards of living as the principal objective in the planning of economic development: to protection of migrant workers: to non-discrimination on grounds of race, colour, sex. belief, tribal association or trade union affiliation; and to education and training. 
Compliance with all provisions of the Convention, and not only the particular aspect referred to by the honourable member, is necessary to enable it to be ratified. 1 would refer the honourable member to the reply given by my colleague, the Minister for External Territories, to Question No. 1427 (Hansard. 26th August 1969, page 712) concerning its application in the Territory of Papua and New Guinea. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am advised that no financial reimbursement is made to the States in respect of State Inspectors carrying out inspection of Federal Awards. The arrangements for the authorisation of State Inspectors to carry out inspections under Federal Awards are mutual, inasmuch as they also provide for the authorisation of Commonwealth Inspectors to carry out inspections under State laws, awards and determinations. The inspection of Federal awards by State Inspectors and of State prescriptions by Commonwealth Inspectors forms  a  very small part of the total number of inspections and it was agreed between the Commonwealth and the participating States that no financial reimbursement of either party was called for. 
Conciliation and Arbitration: 1 Awards and Agreements  (Question No.  12.18.)  Mr Clyde  Cameron asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
How many employees in Australia am covered by Federal awards or agreements. 
What percentage' does this figure represent of all employees. 
What is the number of Commonwealth arbitration inspectors employed in each State. 
Can he say what is the number of arbitration inspectors employed by each of the respective Stale governments. 
ls it a fact that in some Slates the Commonwealth has authorised Slate inspectors to carry out inspections in relation to Commonwealth awards. 
If so. how many of these inspectors are involved and in which States are they authorised to act on behalf of the Commonwealth. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) From information revealed in tho Commonwealth Statistician's 'Survey of the Incidence of Industrial Awards, Determinations and Collective Agreements, May 1968' it is estimated that 40.1 per cent of employees in Australia are affected by Commonwealth awards. In terms of numbers of employees this estimate could bo expressed as 1,740.000. (Excluded from the 1968 survey where all employees in rural industry, in private domestic service, of private employers in hotels, restaurants and other personal services, employees of private employers not subject to' payroll tax and exployees in the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory). 
(3)- 
The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
If an employer employs labour on work covered by an award of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, he is obliged to observe the terms of that award. 
Offences against Commonwealth Law: Hearings  (Question No. 1961) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The industrial agreement known as the Melbourne Building Industry Agreement io which the honourable member has referred became operative for the first time on 1st January 1957, for a period of twelve months. The signatories to this Agreement were, '.he Master Builders Association of Victoria. Ma-ter Plumbers Association of Victoria, Building and Allied Trades Association, Terrazo and Paving Association of Victoria, Victorian Trades Hall Council, Australian Builders Labourers Federation, Building Workers' Industrial Union. Plumbers and Gasfitters Employees Union. Victorian Operative Bricklayer.' Society, Victorian Plasterers Society. The Agreement has been re-negotiated for varying periods since that date. 
In November 1955 Commissioner Chambers refused to certify a Memorandum of Agreement designated the Melbourne Building Industry Agreement, under section 37 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. 1904-1.955. Certification was sought by the Amalgamated Society of Carpenters and Joiners who were a parly to the 1955 Memorandum of Agreement.  Mr Chambers'  refusal as recorded in transcript contained the following reasons: 
When this agreement was presented J made it very clear that 1 could have no objection to the parties reaching agreement to pay above award rates. The real difficulty .is created when certain of the parties to an industrial dispute seek to have those over-award payments confirmed as award minima. 
From the copy of the agreement supplied by the Master Builders' Association of Victoria, it is clear that the appropriate Tribunal is expected to consent to making the agreement an award provision before it becomes operative and. no doubt, '.his is directly influenced by the terms of contract which, in most it not all cases,, require such approval before additional wage costs can be recovered. 
Apart from any other factor, it cannot be overlooked that the present proceedings for an award affect many different classes of employers in three States (Victoria, New South Wales and South Australia), such as other master builders, joiner establishments, mixed industries generally and Slate and1 Federal Governmental instrumentalities. 
Whilst it is claimed that this agreement between Melbourne and metropolitan master builders and the Union is without prejudice, it cannot be assumed to be without prejudice for very long.' 
The Agreement has remained unregistered since that date and therefore does not have the status of an Award of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
On 21st May 1970 the issue of the Industrial Information Bulletin covering the month of January 1970 was being printed. 
On 12th October 1970 the issue covering the month of June was in preparation for the printer. 
The interval between the final preparation of an issue of the Industrial Information Bulletin and the completion of printing varied for the issues referred to ficm 28 days for the January issue to 15 days for the April issue. 
The distribution of copies is done through the Central Office of the Department in Melbourne and Regional Offices in each Stale, me actual dates of dispatch varying accordingly. 
The January. February, March and April 1970 issues of the Industrial Information Bulletin were primed on 8th June 1970, 3rd July 1970, 24th July 1970 and 21st August 1970, respectively. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) to (g). The practical use of statistics lo prevent accidents 'tas most value when related lo a particular indi -trial activity or undertaking National figures have an indirect advantage in providing information on overall patterns and trends. 
(a). Statistics are available, for die categories i (a). 1 (c), 1 (d) and 1 (e) above. 
Accident statistics are being compiled for non-Commonwealth employees in the Australian Capital Territory. 
Steps towards a uniform standard of reporting were first taken in 1958 with iiic adoption of a minimum standard by those States which were producing statistics for the 'first time. This standard is now used by the majority of stales and for Commonwealth employment. Progress is kept under review by the Commonwealth and Slate Departments of Labour and by the Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (l)-(4) Yes. 
I suggest that the honourable member refer to the answers to 2 of his earlier questions on notice- Nos. 2011 (pan 4) and 2012 (part 1). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The application of the Australian Workers' Union to vary the hours of work provisions relating to station hands in the Pastoral Industry Award 1965 was dismissed following a lengthy hearing during which the union had opportunity to fully present its case. 
In their reasons for judgment the members of the full bench staled that the merits of the claim were ventilated before then extensively. Their Honours concluded, inter alia, that 'all in all it is our view that present circumstances do not justify granting the union claim'. 
In dealing specifically with the position of station hands who live on properties, the judgment referred to the custom of providing accommodation, meat and some amenities free or at nominal cost and observed that - 'lt may be thought that this, combined with the hours of work is a somewhat feudal approach to employment, but on the preponderance of the evidence we do not find there is any serious unrest among station hands and we are satisfied they regard it as a benefit to live on the properties'. 
In any assessment of the ground upon which the application was dismissed, 1 suggest thai it would bc incorrect to take any of the words used out of their context. 
The decision of the Tribunal does not indicate that the prospect of industrial unrest was a ground upon which  Mr Justice  Gallagher granted a 35-hour week to coal miners, lt is noteworthy that in his decision,  Mr Justice  Gallagher said that the Tribunal instituted the proceedings 'on its own motion when it became apparent that direct action in the form of strikes and threats of strikes rather than resort to arbitration was being used as the method for obtaining reduced ordinary hours for mine workers'. 
1 would refer the honourable member lo sections 39 and 40(1) (a), (b) and lc) of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
ILO Convention No. 47 - Forty-hour Week, 1935, provides, inter alia: 'Each Member of the International Labour Organisation which ratifies this Convention declares its approval of - 
the principle of a 40-hour week applied in such a manner that the standard of living is not reduced in consequence.' 
and (3) The Convention was ratified on 22 October 1970 by Australia which became only the fifth of the ILO's 121 member countries to do so. 
Discussions with the International Labour Office indicated that Australia could ratify the Convention on the basis of ils existing law and practice. Ratification does not impose an obligation to apply the 40-hour week immediately to all workers, including such groups as rural workers. 
As I have indicated, only 5 countries have ratified this Convention even though it is worded very flexibly. This illustrates that there are relatively few countries with a standard working week of 40 hours. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Comprehensive statistics are not available of overtime worked by each employee in Australia. However, my Department collects data on overtime worked during a selected week each month by employees in a sample of some 2,600 larger private factories throughout Australia, employing in total over 550.000 persons. The statistics relating to  i  he years 1967, 1968, 1969 and the 10 months to October 1970 are shown below in eight industry groups: 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) In determining wage claims the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission considers all relevant factors placed before it by the parties and interveners, if any. Comparative wage justice, if relevant, is one of the factors. Other factors taken into account by the Commission  ate  referred to in the Commis- sions general observations on the principles of wage fixation set out in ils decision in the 
National Wage Case, 1969. (Print No. B4537, at pages 10 to 13.) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (3) As indicated in -answers io recent questions on notice dealing with the availability of estimates of productivity in Australia - in particular, questions Nos 524 (Hansard, 5th May 1970, page 1644), 1821 (Hansard, 27th October 1970, page 2830) and 2028 (Hansard, 30th October 1970, page 3168), asked of the Treasurer - there are no regularly published official estimates of labour productivity. Some of these answers have indicated the Statistician's intention to examine during 1971 the desirability of compiling and publishing measures of change in product per unit of labour force despite their significant conceptual limitations. This examination will consider measures at the level of major industries, groups of industries, and gross national product. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) In an address 1 gave on 8th October 1970 to the Committee for Economic Development of Australia I reiterated the essence of a submission about the relevance to wage increases of productivity or profitability in an industry which had already been made by the Commonwealth before the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission during the hearing of the Oil Industry Case. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to my answer to his Question No. 379. (See Hansard of 22nd April 1970.) I have nothing to add to that answer. 
Nuclear power  (Question No. 2125) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) I would refer the honourable member to the answer 1 gave to his question without notice on 21st October 1970 (Hansard, Page 2540). 
I presume the honourable member is referring to the ANL Terminals at Port Kembla, Adelaide and Geelong which have not commenced operating at this stage, in which case the answer is no. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. The advertisement, indicated that for some trades specified age groups were preferred. 
The Commonwealth Employment Service consistently pursues a policy of advising employers that ability and capacity to do the job should be a prime consideration in selection, and that only in exceptional circumstances or where the individual's welfare is affected should age be a factor. The Commonwealth Employment Service therefore brings to the attention of employers seeking to engage labour the most. suitable of the persons seeking its assistance to obtain employ-, ment irrespective of any age limits that may be specified, but with due regard to -the duties of the position to be filled. When an advertisement is. placed and paid for by an employer, as was the" case on (his occasion, responsibility for its content rests with the employer who has the right of decision as to who shall be engaged. The Commonwealth Employment Service, irrespective of any age preferences indicated, will refer to employers persons beyond those age limits if it is satisfied that they ate capable of performing tha' duties, required. It did so in this instance. 
No. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
This proposal has been considered on several occasions, but the Government has not seen fit to adopt it. 
The Conciliation and Arbitration Act provides that, subject to the power of removal on the ground of proved misbehaviour or incapacity which applies to Commissioners and Conciliators as well as presidential members of the Commission: 
a presidential member shall hold office until he resigns or attains the age of seventy years; or in the case of such a member who is a Judge of the Commonwealth Court of Conciliation and Arbitration, until he resigns or dies; 
a Commissioner or a Conciliator shall hold office until he attains the age of 65 years. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission fixes minimum wage rates in its awards, 
My predecessors and 1 have many times indicated the Government's view that the so-called penal clauses' of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act should only be used  as a'  last resort when  all  other reasonable steps have been taken to resolve disputes. 
This policy is reflected in the amendments made to the Act in June of this year. They provide, inter alia, for the processes of conciliation and, if needs be, arbitration, to be availed of before the so-called 'penal clause', section 119, can be invoked. Moreover, a' presidential member of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission must have issued a certificate before action can be taken under that section to have the Commonwealth Industrial Court impose a penalty because of an award breach by a union. And before it can be held that there is such a breach by a union because of its part in  a  ban or strike the Commission constituted by a presidential member must first have been satisfied that a so-called 'bans clause' should be inserted in the award. 
It will be seen from this that before the 'penal clause' of the Act can have been invoked every opportunity will have been given the parties to a dispute to settle their differences. If, despite that, the union resorts to direct industrial action or continues to resort to such action contrary to the award provision, therein lies the justification for the use of the sanctions provisions of the Act. Union not only have the right to seek to better the industrial lot of their members. They also have obligations to abide by the awards made to protect their members. 
 The answer to the hon ourable member's question is as follows: Upon inquiry I am informed: 
In order to protect the interests of the persons concerned the Industrial Registrar has adopted the practice of not divulging the names of unsuccessful applicants for financial assistance. I agree with this practice, 
Six of the applicants. 
In 13 of the applications no reasons were given for refusal. In the remaining 6 the refusal was expressed to be the absence of reasonable ground for taking the proposed proceedings. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Upon inquiry I am informed 
Regulation 138 (then regulation 130a)  was  made in 1949 during the administration of the Chifley Labour Government. Sub-regulation (3) was added in 1956. 
217. 
(a) 198. (b) 19. 
The answer io the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Regulation 138 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Regulations gives the Industrial Registrar or  a  Deputy  Industrial Registrar a discretion to direct in certain circumstances that such financial assistance as he determines be given by the Commonwealth to a member of an organisation registered at his Registry in respect of proceedings that member proposes to lake under section 140 or 141 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. The regulation does not prescribe any minimum. 
The answer to the hon  ourable  member's  question  is as follows: 
The decision of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in the Equal Pay Case 1969, was not attributed by the Commission to the submissions of the Commonwealth in those proceedings and cannot be so represented. It is a fact that following upon that decision and in accordance with the principles enunciated by the Commission the Public Service Board applied the equal pay phasing provisions to nursing aides in Commonwealth employment. On the other hand, nursing being a predominantly female occupation it did not meet the criteria specified by the Commission and the equal pay phasing provisions clearly could nol be applied to nurses. The rates of pay for nurses determined at that time by the Board had regard to the prevailing rates in public hospitals in the States and constituted 'rates for the job' for application to all employees in that occupation, irrespective of sex. Apart from those in Commonwealth employment, or employed in Commonwealth Territories, nurses and nursing aides come under the awards and determinations of State Tribunals and are not subject to decisions of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. 
The Commonwealth has made it clear that it considers the appropriate authority for determining principles of equal pay for male and female workers is the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Statistics on the incidence of shift work are not available. 
Since 1950, the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and the Commonwealth Public Service Arbitrator have varied the following awards and determinations to permit shift work where it was not previously authorised: 
The answer  to  the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. The  President  of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission at page 21 of his Thirteenth Annual Report said: 
The other policy aspect is the continuing use of boards of reference. The success of these boards has been remarkable, and has been reflected in  the  fact that there are only two or three appeals each year from about  a  thousand decisions. Boards of reference have become one of the safety valves in our system for the conciliating  of  disputes in which both parties do participate with signal success.' 
1 am advised that objections are occasionally made by employers and unions to a board of reference hearing  a  dispute or a matter which would involve the board exercising judicial powers. While section 50 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act empowers the Commission to confer certain powers and functions upon boards of reference, the Commission cannot, of course, delegate a power or function which it does not itself possess. 1 am advised further that most awards provide for appeals against decisions of boards of reference. However, it is apparent from the extract from the President's Thirteenth Annual Report quoted in answer to part (1) of the honourable member's question that appeals are made infrequently. 
No. The  President  has reported the successful operation of boards of reference and 1 do not believe that an occasional objection to the hearing of a dispute or matter by a board or the occasional appeal against a decision of a board would warrant amending the Conciliation and Arbitration Act to to give boards wider powers. 
The answer to the honourable member's  question is  as follows: 
I  am advised as follows: (1.) There is no section of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act which authorises the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to make a common rule binding on ail (a) employees and (b) employers. However, section 49 (1) provides that the Commission may, if it appears necessary or expedient for the purpose of preventing or settling an industrial dispute with which it is dealing or of preventing further industrial disputes, declare that any term of an award shall, in a Territory of the Commonwealth, be a common rule of any industry in connexion with which the dispute arose. 
Yes. subject to any limitation which may be specified in the awards concerned. The application of each common rule declared since 1957 was listed in my answer to question No. 522 (Hansard of 4th June 1970, pages 2888-2891). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) I am advised that as at 15th January 1971 there was no backlog of claims in the Australian Capital Territory awaiting determination by a Commissioner. 
Industrial Relations: Lock-outs  (Question No. 1537) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) My Department is not aware of any instances where an employer has been found guilty of a lock-out under the provisions of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act since its passage in 1904. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Information on the causes of each of the various strikes and disputes is not tabulated by my Department. The Commonwealth Statistician's statistics of causes of industrial disputes are presented in aggregate form and are not published for each of the various strikes and disputes. The Statistician has supplied the following statistics for the first 6 months of 1970: 
The answer to the honourable member's question  is  as follows: 
See the answer  to  Question No. 727. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is 'No'. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
and (3) 1 do not consider it would be appropriate for me to comment upon  Mr Justice  Sheehy' s observations. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Section 5 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act provides, inter alia, that an employer shall not dismiss an employee for reasons set out in the section. It also provides that where an employer has been convicted of an offence against the section the Court by which the employer is convicted may direct that the employee be reinstated in his old position or in a similar position. 
It is not clear whether the honourable member's question refers to the reasons given by Courts for refusing to convict or, in cases where a Court has convicted, to reasons given for refusing to reinstate an employee. 
If the honourable member will make clear the points on which he desires information I shall endeavour to obtain it for him. 
Industrial Relations: Lock-outs (Question No.  1959) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
My Department is not aware of any instances where an employer has been prosecuted and found guilty of a lock-out since the inception of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act in 1904. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The present provisions of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act already afford this facility. My advisers are not aware of any reason to believe that these provisions are inadequate. 
 The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: See the answer to Question No. 727. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) If the honourable member will supply me with details of the specific finding to which he refer* I will endeavour to provide an answer to his question. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It appears evident from the honourable member's questions Nos 2091 to 2116 inclusive that he has been reading the I.L.O. publication Measuring Labour Productivity' published in 1969. He will, therefore, be aware that the information he has requested is contained in Appendix II therein. 
and (3) I refer the honourable member to the answers given to questions Nos 524 (Hansard, 5th May 1970, page 1644), 1821 (Part 1) (Hansard, 27th October 1970,  pages  2830-1), 1225 (Hansard, 13th October 1970, page 2064) and 2028 (Hansard. 30th October 1970. page 3168). As indicated in the answers to these questions, there are no regularly published official estimates of labour productivity in Australia, but the Commonwealth Statistician is examining the desirability of compiling and publishing such estimates. In its submissions in recent National Wage hearings, the Commonwealth has provided estimates of the change in Gross National Product at constant prices per person at work. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (3) See answer to Question No. 2091. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (3) See answer to Question No. 2091. 
 The answer  to  the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (3) See answer to Question No. 2091. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (3) See answer to Question No. 2091. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (3) See answer to Question No. 2091. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (3) See answer to Question No. 2091. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is  as  follows: 
to (3) See answer to Question No. 2091. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (3) See answer to Question No. 2091. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (3) See answer to Question No. 2091. 
 The answer to the hon ourable member's question is as follows: 
to (3) See answer to Question No. 2091. 
 The answer to the hon ourable member's question is as follows: 
to (3) See answer to Question No. 2091. 
 The answer to the hon ourable  member's  question is as  follows:  (1) to (3) See answer to Question No. 2091. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (3) See answer to Question No. 2091. 
 The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
See answer to Question No. 2091. The 
ILO publication lists East Germany and not The Federal Republic of Germany as compiling statistics of the type referred to by the honourable member. 
and (3) See answer to Question No. 2091. 
Productivity (Question No. 2106) 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (3) See answer to Question No. 2091. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (3) See answer to Question No. 2091. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (3) See answer to Question No. 2091. According to the ILO publication, the countries referred to by the honourable member compile indices in respect of gross production per person employed in the industrial sector. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
See answer to Question No. 2091. The ILO publication lists these indices as relating to labour productivity in manufacturing. 
and (3) See answer to Question No. 2091. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
See answers to Questions Nos 2091 and 2109. 
and (3) See answer to Question No. 2091. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
See answers to Questions Nos 2091 and 2109. 
and (3) See answer to Question No. 2091. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
See answers to Questions Nos 2091 and 2 1.09. 
and (3) See answer to Question No. 2091. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
See answers to Questions Nos 2091 and 2109. 
and (3) See answer to Question No. 2091. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
-See answers to Questions Nos 2091 and 2109. 
and (3) See answer to Question No. 2091. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The labour productivity series prepared in the United Kingdom are described on pages 135- 137 of the l.L.O. publication. 
and (3) See answer lo Question No. 2091. 
 The answer to the honourable  member's  question is as follows: 
The labour productivity series prepared in the United States are described on page 13S of the l.L.O. publication. 
and (3) See answer to Question No. 2091. 
Thirty-five Hour Working Week (Question No. 2131) 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
(a): The main assumptions on which the estimates were based arc: 
That wage-earners effectively work on average a standard (ordinary time) week of 38i hours and overtime of 3i hours a week. (Derived from Commonwealth Statistician's Survey of Weekly Earnings and Hours). 
That the introduction of a 35-hour week entails a reduction in average standard hours worked of either 3i hours (9 per cent) or 5 hours (13 per cent) depending on how it is applied in practice; 
That the introduction of a 35-hour week has no effect on weekly wage rates, so that hourly wage rates increase approximately in line with the decrease in working hours; 
That hourly rates paid for overtime increase proportionally; 
That . hourly rates for part-time workers also increase proportionally; 
That total wages, salaries and supplements amount to around $15,500 million. (Source: National Income and Expenditure, 1969- 70). 
That the introduction of a 35-hour week has no direct effect on productivity per man-hour. 
On the basis of the above main assumptions it was found that: 
If the loss in working hours were made up by the employment of additional labour, the total annual wage and salary bill would rise by around $1,400 million (assuming hours worked per employee fell by 9 per cent) or by about $2,000 million (assuming hours worked per employee fell by 13 per cent)). 
If, as is more likely, the loss in working hours were made up by additional overtime and paid for at time-and-a-half rates, the total wage and salary bill would rise by between about $2,000 million and $2,900 million. 
(b): The reason for the wide disparity lies in the alternative assumptions used, as explained in Part 2 (a). 
(c): The assumptions are set out in full in Part 2(a). 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Public Service Board and the Department of Labour and National Service were given responsibilities in respect of policy co-ordination as to industrial matters by a decision of the Chifley Labor Government in December 1948.  In  February 1957  the 
Menzies Government made a further decision on co-ordination broadly along the lines mentioned in my statement of 21st October 1970 (Hansard, page 2540). 
I am informed that there was consultation between officers of the Company and officers of my Department on this matter and it was agreed that the appeal be lodged. 
Salaries for the positions referred to in this part of the question do not come within the scope of my Department's co-ordination responsibility. 
The Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority did not award 4 weeks annual leave at loaded rates for members of the Waterside Workers Federation. 
There is consultation between the Public Service Board and my Department on a close and continuing basis. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Causes of industrial disputes (involving stoppage of work of 10 man days or more) are published by the Commonwealth Statistician. Figures for recent years are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In its 1959 Metal Trades Margins decision, the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission said as follows about the matter raised  . . The true function of the Commission is to settle industrial disputes. In the settlement of disputes involving payment of wages, such as this one in which such issues have been raised, the Commission will bear in mind the various economic submissions made to it, including those about price rises and inflation; it will also bear in mind the fiscal and economic policies of the Government. It will not ignore the consequences to be expected from its actions but it will not deliberately create situations which would need rectification by Governmental action. It will not use its powers for the purposes of causing any particular economic result apart from altered wages although in the event the decision it makes may have other economic consequences. . . . ' 
Reasons for the Commonwealth urging the Commission to have regard to economic consequences of its decisions have been frequently stated in submissions which the Commonwealth has made during its intervention in cases before the Commission. Briefly, the Commonwealth has stressed that in attempting to settle industrial disputes, decisions reached by the Commission should not be such as to have adverse effects on the economy which would be detrimental to the community generally as well as to the parties immediately concerned. The Government is in full accord with the following extract from the judgment of Dixon C.J. in the Queen v. Kelly Ex parte Australian Railways Union (89 CAR 461 at pp. 474-475): 
While an arbitral tribunal deriving its authority under an exercise of the legislative power given by s. 51 (xxxv) must confine itself to conciliation and arbitration for the settlement of industrial disputes including what is incidental thereto and cannot have in its hands the general control or direction of industrial social or economic policies, it would beabsurd to suppose that it was to proceed blindly in its work of industrial arbitration and ignore the industrial social and economic consequences of what it was invited to do or of what, subject to the power of variation, it had actually done.' 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) I am informed that there was consultation between officers of the Company and officers of my Department on this matter and it was agreed that the appeal be lodged. 
and (4) I would invite the honourable member's attention to the answers I provided to parts (3) and (4) of Question No. 376 (Hansard pp. 1203-4). 
The question of the date of operation of the decision appealed against would normally be a matter for the bench appointed to hear the appeal. In the event the appeal did not proceed to a hearing because of the agreement reached the parties referred to in my answer to parts (3) and (4) of Question No. 376. Included in the agreement was that the phasing-in of equal pay for women employed under the Commonwealth Hostels Award who were eligible for equal pay should be in accordance with the phasing-in arrangements set out in the Commission's Equal Pay decision of June '1969. 
and (7) The status of Commonwealth Hostels Limited is set out under part 5 of my answer to the honourable member's question No. 376 reported at pages 1203 and 1204 of Hansard for 15th April 1970. 
No. I believe the Commission should be left with the discretion it now has in these matters. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In January 1968  Mr Commissioner  E. J. Clarkson granted male and female workers employed under the Commonwealth Hostels Award wage increases on work value grounds and, in addition, granted female workers an increase equivalent to the differences between the former male and female basic wages and abolished interstate differences in wage rates for male and female workers. The Commissioner also granted to all workers employed under the award two weeks of paid sick leave foc each year of service subsequent to service of seven years. 
Commonwealth Hostels Limited appealed not only against the decision to award female workers a wage increase equivalent to the difference between the former male and female basic wages, but also against the decision to abolish the interstate differences between wage rates for male and female workers. The Company also applied for a stay of the two decisions until the appeal was heard. 
The reason for the  President  of the Commission not setting the appeal down for hearing soon after the stay applications had been decided is apparent from the following extract from a decision handed down on 15th July 1968, in which the Commission, inter alia, extended stay orders previously granted: 
I would like to add for myself as  President  that it should bc manifest to the industrial world and also to the representatives of the parties and especially to this particular union that it is impossible for me to set this down for hearing at present. It is not the wish of the organised employers or the organised trade unions that the two issues of equal rates for females and males and the abolition of interstate differentials be tested at this particular point of time. Indeed it will be clear - and I recommend to the union that it look at the transcript of today's proceedings before  Mr Senior  Commissioner Taylor in regard to the forthcoming national wage case, where the representatives of the Australian Council of Trade Unions made it clear that the A.C.T.U. did not want the issue of equal pay for men and women or the abolition of interstate differentials decided at or even during the national wage cases which are going to commence on 6th August; they wanted those issues decided separately and later than that. 
It will be seen therefore that it would be impracticable to the point of absurdity if I were to put this appeal down for hearing at the present time.' 
and (4) Commonwealth Hostels Limited and the Federated Liquor and Allied Industries Employees' Union of Australia agreed that the phasing-in of equal pay for female workers eligible for equal pay should be in accordance with the decision of the Commission, in the Equal Pay Case, 1969. The Commission subsequently, at the request of the parties, handed down a consent award to this effect. Under the consent award female workers eligible for equal pay will receive the full male rate from and after January .1972. This is in accordance with the Commission's decision in the Equal Pay Case, 1969. 
Commonwealth Hostels Limited is a Company incorporated in Victoria under the Victorian Companies Act as a Company Limited by Guarantee, and is registered in each other State as a Foreign Company. Being a Company Limited by Guarantee, it has no share capital and ownership cannot therefore be precisely determined. It would be true to say that the Company was incorporated to service a Commonwealth purpose, and that the agreement between the Commonwealth and the Company reserves certain policy decisions to me as Minister for Labour and National Service. The Company is, however, administered by a Board of Directors and Company officers, not by my Department. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth intervenes in the public interest only in cases of major economic importance or in cases in which some major principle is to be considered. The appeal referred to by the honourable member was concerned with the question as to whether  Mr Commissioner  Winter properly observed equal pay principles laid down by the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in its decision in the Equal Pay Case 1969 in which the Commonwealth intervened. As the honourable member will be aware, the Commission rejected the appeal. 
The only case dealing exclusively with claims for wage increases for female workers in which the Commonwealth intervened in recent years was the Equal Pay Case 1969. In this case the Commonwealth recommended the adoption of the principle of equal pay for equal work. The Public Service Board has never intervened in a case dealing exclusively with claims for increased wage rates for female workers, but appeared in the Equal Pay Case 1969 as a party when it supported the concept of equal pay recommended by the Commonwealth. Neither the Commonwealth nor the Public Service Board has ever appealed against a decision in a case which dealt exclusively with wage claims for female workers. To my knowledge no Commonwealth instrumentality has ever intervened or appealed against a decision in such a case. However the honourable member will be aware that Commonwealth Hostels Limited, a company limited by guarantee, appealed inter alia against a decision handed down by Commissioner Clarkson early in 1968 on wage rales for females employed under the Commonwealth Hostels Award. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1)Yes. As a matter of equity all wage and salary earners should share in the benefits of increased productivity and this is achieved through national wage cases. 
and (3) There is an inducement for individual unions and their members to co-operate with management in securing higher productivity in particular industries because by doing so they will increase the capacity of the economy to sustain real wage increases from which everybody benefits. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) 1 am advised as follows: 
Workers' compensation can be awarded to dependants who live in another State, Territory or country under the laws of New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia, Western Australia, Tasmania, the Australian Capital Territory, the Northern Territory and the Commonwealth. Restrictions in the New South Wales and Western Australian legislation on payment of compensation for dependants residing in another country were removed by amendments to the legislation which came into effect on 3rd December 1970 and 8th May 1970, respectively. The position in Queensland is that the Queensland Government has decided that when amendments to the Workers' Compensation Acts are next introduced, they will include provision to remove existing restrictions on the payment of compensation to dependants in a foreign country of workers killed or injured in Queensland and that, pending appropriate amendments to those Acts, compensation will be paid to dependants domiciled in a foreign country of workers killed or injured in Queensland. Thus treatment of dependants of workers killed or injured in Australia is uniform in the sense that compensation benefits extend to those dependants in another country or in a State or Territory other than that where the worker was killed or injured. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. In my statement of 12th June last, in which 1 announced that Cabinet after long consideration had been unable to find a civilian alternative to national service which it considers is both equitable and practicable, I set out some of the key criteria which the Government considers an alternative must satisfy in Australia. Among other things 1 said: 
Constitutional difficulties must be avoided and the provisions of international Conventions on forced labour which Australia has ratified not breached. A scheme which would provide civilian service as an alternative for all national service registrants could be construed as "man power" control, in which case there would not be a constitutional basts for it at the present time, and would probably not be acceptable under the ILO Conventions.' 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The National Service Act imposes a universal liability on men in the relevant agegroup to register for national service when required to do so. Except in the case of men absent from Australia at that time, this is in the half year in which they reach 20 years of age. 
Men liable to register who fail to do so at the required time are not eligible to be included in the ballot and are liable to prosecution. 
In each year since the inception of the present national service scheme proceedings for failure to register have been initiated against the following numbers of men: 
I  am  advised  that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2) and (3) Sub-section (1) of section 60 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act provides: 
Subject to this Act, an award (including an award made on appeal) - 
is final and conclusive; 
shall not be challenged, appealed against, reviewed, quashed or called in question in any court; and 
is not subject to prohibition, mandamus or injunction in any court on any account. 
In Clothing and Allied Trades Union of Australia v. Cocks, 12 F.L.R. 138, two Judges of the Commonwealth Industrial Court in a joint judgment held that this sub-section debarred the Court from considering the validity of a sub-clause of an award the validity of which was challenged. They came to this decision having regard to' the slate of legal authority at the time. In the subsequent case of R v. Commonwealth Industrial Court; ex pate Cocks, Trading as Australian Dry Cleaning, 43 A.L.J.R.  32,  the comments of some of the Justices of the High Court indicated that the subsection might not impose such a restriction upon the Commonwealth Industrial Court. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Tariff Board in its 1969-70 annual report slates that 'if all tariff protection available to manufacturing industries in 1967-68 had been fully used, the iota! cost of the manufacturing processes would have been $2.700m greater than willi the same pattern of manufacturing and no tariffs'. However, this level of tariff protection is nol fully taken advantage of by all industries to which it is available and therefore the figure quoted in the Board's report is simply notional. 
In view of the answer to (a), any per capita figure based on the $2,700m mentioned in the Board's report would be meaningless.' 
and (4) I continually have in mind all factors - including levels of tariff protection - which affect productivity, living standards, employment, costs and prices. 
The honourable member asks me for figures and, of course, I cannot carry the precise figures in my mind. Therefore I shall have to deal with the question in more general terms and not give precise figures. There was a report in the 'Australian' yesterday which was drawn from an answer to a question on notice from, I think, the honourable member for Oxley. So far as prosecutions under the National Service Act are concerned it is very important to draw the distinction between the 3 prosecution points. They are: Failure to register; failure to attend for medical examination; and failure to render service. There is a very big distinction between them. The numbers of those who fail to attend for medical examination and are prosecuted for it is very small and the number of those who fail to render service is even fewer again, but I believe' the honourable member's question was specifically directed towards failure to register. Since the inception of the scheme about 600.000 men have registered and very few have been prosecuted. The number who have been prosecuted is a bit over 1,000 but there is another number which is being variously stated by bodies such as the Draft Resisters Union. Just what that body is I do' not" know but it seems to make public statements.  
I have no doubt that the honourable member would know all about it and indeed would give as much comfort as he could to members of that union who are encouraging other people to break the law and risk prosecution and imprisonment, and that is not a responsible act of any member of this Parliament. But there are other numbers which are frequently put about and it is most important to understand in relation to this that the vast majority of young' men do register in accordance with 'their obligation. The number who fail to register is a minute percentage of the total' required 'to register. There are periodic checks 'made by my Department to see whether people subject to registration have failed to register. Honourable members will be well aware that everybody has an obligation. .to register even if it is unlikely that he will be called on for service because, for., instance, he is medically unfit and appears to be medically unfit or he is mentally retarded. But they all must register. There are other groups who will not be called on for service such as members of the permanent forces or people who have already contracted a marriage before the cut-off date in relation to registration. 
There is yet another category of people who in fact do not exist but in relation to whom bodies like the Draft Resisters Union and other unknown persons put in false registration papers. Most of those registration papers are, on. their face, false and can be disregarded, but some are not. They put an administrative burden on the Department butI want to make it perfectly clear that every case is pursued to see whether there is an obligation to register. No matter how many false registration papers are put in the effectiveness of the scheme will not be affected. All this practice will do is place an added burden on officers in my Department. It will not in any way affect the efficiency of the scheme and it will in no way result in anybody not being called upon for service as the process develops or not being prosecuted for failure to register. A great number of people who fail to register subsequently register either voluntarily or at the prompting of my Department. I am bound to say thatI have recently noticed a very significant change in attitude. I used to receive letters from young men who would write to me, sometimes in offensive language and sometimes in very polite language, and say that they would refuse to register or comply in any way. I now find that many of them say 'We will register' because they accept the obligation to register in the first instance and then to proceed with their course of conscientious objection later. 
 The year 1970 showed to the public in Australia as a whole the increased use of the strike weapon to force up over-award payments and wages and conditions generally. 
During the course of 1970 the time lost by industrial strikes grew to an extremely high level. In 1970 2.3 million man days were lost by strikes. The purpose of the strikes, of course, was to increase over-award payments and to win by threat of action or actual action improved conditions. All those wages and all those conditions add to the cost factor in the production of goods and the provision of services. During 1970 the average wage increased by 8 per cent. Forty per cent, or two-fifths of that 8 per cent increase was occasioned by overaward payments. Then at the end of 1970 there was a decision by the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in the national wage case to increase national wages by 6 per cent. When this occurred there was a tremendous focus of public attention on wage increases and what they would do to costs and, in turn, what they would do to prices. Not unexpectedly, having regard to what had been occurring in 1970, early in January the Commonwealth Statistician issued his consumer price index series for the December quarter, which revealed an increase of 1.9 per cent in consumer cost prices. 
At this point of time the Government and the public were very greatly concerned about inflation and the problem of how to deal with it. At this time the commentators and the public media generally, reflecting initially the concern of the Government and of the public, printed a great deal of material about inflation and made all sorts of prognostications. Then essentially, over a short period of time, it was elevated by the public media and by the commentators into a crisis situation, but it never was a crisis situation. What it required was a very close analysis of our economic position to decide exactly what problem we faced, to identify the nature of the problem and to measure the intensity of the force of the problem. Following on that close analysis we also had available to us the experience of other countries which had been confronted with similar situations during earlier years. 
We have full employment in Australia and we want to maintain full employment. That is part of our national ethos and it is an objective subscribed to very vigorously by all political parties in Australia. In previous years we had quite a low cost increase in prices, and we want to return to that position. But in the analysis it was vital that the diagnosis of the problem was correct in order that we could apply the correct remedy, for to apply the wrong remedy would mean creating new problems, such as under-employment and under-production which other countries are experiencing, without curing the problem of inflation. "These other countries have under-employment which would be intolerable in the Australian sense of underemployment, but they still have inflation at a higher rate than we have. So we faced the danger that unless we made the right decision to cure the problem we would merely create another problem. Therefore, it was vital to decide whether we were confronted with demand inflation or cost inflation. 
In examining that proposition we had to look at the current situation. That examination disclosed without any doubt that there was not an excess aggregate demand. At the end of January of this year the number of unemployed exceeded the number of registered vacancies. Nor was there any evidence of an internal excess demand spilling over into imports to satisfy demand spending. In recent months imports have been rising at a slower rate than gross national spending. There was other evidence to indicate that there was no excess demand. Overtime worked throughout the community was less than the peaks in the first half of 1970. Surveys conducted by the Associated Chambers of Manufactures of Australia and the Bank of New South Wales showed that the great majority of firms surveyed were not hampered by shortage of labour, materials or capacity. Industrial production was not increasing rapidly. In the December quarter, out of 34 indicators of production, 14 showed lower levels for the December quarter than for the same quarter of 1969. There was no evidence to indicate that the consumer spending growth was faster than productive capacity. At constant prices, retail sales value for the December quarter represented an increase of only1 per cent over the 1969 figures. 
The economic outlook for 1971, as it appears, is that in 1971 there is an excess demand threat, but excess demand does not presently exist. Of course, there is always a threat of excess demand in a fully employed economy such as ours, but unless it can be regarded as a serious threat it is not a proper base on which policy decisions should be taken. In Australia there is a danger of excess demand. After the last Budget was presented other decisions were taken which could have resulted in an over-expansionary Budget. Private investment was a little over-ebullient, but the threats from these 2 sources were dealt with by measures announced by the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  a few months ago. Current wage inflation does not necessarily mean that there will be an excess demand except temporarily, because prices will increase as a result of increased wages, and the money increases are likely to be illusory. There may be no actual excess demand for goods as distinct from excess prices. 
There is a fallacy to which, I regret to say,too many trade union members and leaders and honourable members on the Opposition benches subscribe. It is that by increasing money wages beyond productivity people receive increased purchasing power. This does not increase purchasing power at all. If that happens it pushes up the price structure which hurts the exporter and those people on fixed incomes. There are sectional excesses now but they are not new and they are not worse than previously. This is not an explanation of the current pressures. The currect pressures are cost pressures which have arisen from the gap between the growth in average money incomes and average productivity. Average weekly earnings increased by 6 per cent in 1967 and 1968, by 9 per cent in 1969 and by 8 per cent in 1970, and in 1971 there is a danger that the rate of increase will accelerate, and consequently prices will increase. It is not appropriate to deal with this problem by adopting deflation policies because the problem is not one of general excess demand. Deflationary fiscal policies. which apparently the Opposition would like the Government to adopt - the Opposition has not analysed the problem but it believes that it can gain some political advantage out of the situation - are counter productive. They would raise prices which would further stimulate wage demands. Deflationary fiscal policies also would slow the growth of demand and adversely affect demand which would be likely to stop productivity growth. 
The answer to the present problems is that there should be more restaints on wages, and the onus is on tribunals, union leaders, employers, the Government and the community to put restraints on wages to enable restraints to be placed on prices. Positive measures are required to combat the current inflationary situation. Some of those measures have already been taken. The short term measures have been taken. The longer term problem is to deal with something which must essentially be regarded as a longer term problem, and that is, we must avoid excess demand by maintaining general fiscal and monetary discipline. There must be intervention by governments before tribunals - not merely Commonwealth Government intervention, but also State government intervention - because more people are covered by State tribunal awards than by Commonwealth tribunal awards. Strong action must be taken to uphold the authority of tribunals when they have made an arbitration decision. There must be support for the resistance by employers to withstand unreasonable demands. Also, employers must be encouraged to absorb costs by achieving greater efficiency of management. We must use all our powers of persuasion and influence to restrain wages, costs and prices, because the wage earner or union member is not separable from the community as a whole. As much as possible we must diffuse technical and managerial knowledge through productivity groups, advice on personnel practices and things of that sort. We need publicity to encourage more productivity consciousness. 
It is interesting to note that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  in launching this censure motion, made not one single mention of productivity. The greatest single factor that we have to face today is that we have to improve the real standards of living in order to allow the granting of wage increases without those increases effecting increases in prices. As I have said, the Leader of the Opposition did not say one single word about productivity. He volunteered the support of the Labor Party for constitutional reforms on a variety of issues. Why did he not offer the complete co-operation of the Labor Party and, so far as he was able to influence and persuade it, the support of the trade unions in improving productivity. 
We should take action to improve the range and quality of training facilities and training methods. I have never heard an Opposition member in this House talk about the need to improve training for the whole community, to allow the individual worker to realise the full possibilities of his intellect, dexterity and skills so that he could improve his own position and thereby improve the quality of the manufacturing and productive services in the community. We need the promotion of a more efficient and socially desirable allocation of resources through tariff rationalisation, moral suasion of financial institutions and selected Government expenditure. We need new and urgent attention given to higher business management education and we need the encouragement of competition, internal and external. 
In launching this censure motion the Leader of the Opposition said that the House has no confidence because of the Government's failure to report to the House on the details and purposes of its monetary measures. The monetary measures were applied last April and have continued. They were fully reported to the House. The Opposition did not even choose to debate them. That was the first point made by the Leader of the Opposition. Secondly he referred to fiscal measures. The fiscal measure taken by the Government is the suspension of the investment allowances for plant and equipment. A Bill is before the House now. Thirdly, the Leader of the Opposition mentioned the constitutional position. The Prime Minister has indicated that we will not know our constitutional power until the High Court gives a decision in the pipe companies case which is before it. The Prime Minister said that if the decision is that we do not have power, we will have to consider going to the people. So the Government has reported on that aspect. 
The fourth matter concerned industrial policies. I regret to say that we have been reporting constantly on the industrial policies. What we have not found is the slightest measure of co-operation or understanding on the part of the Opposition as to what our industrial policies are and how we are pursuing them. We have reported them, but they have passed completely over the head of the Leader of the Opposition and his followers. 
One point in the long speech of the Leader of the Opposition will illustrate how unreliable was the totality of it. He said that between 1955 and 1970, wages, as a proportion of the gross national product, fell from 63.2 per cent to 61.7 per cent. He alleged a fall. If he examines the national accounts prepared by the Com.monwealth Statistician he will find that in 1954-55 the figure was 56.47 per cent and in 1969-70 it was 57.52 per cent. In other words it increased, not decreased, over the period. That indicates how reliable was the totality of his speech. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In the order in which they were held the number of marbles drawn in each of the ballots in the present national service scheme is as follows: 
96, 67, 48, 38, 45, 39, 46, 35, 52, 30, 30, 42 
and (3) Each registrant whose birthdate is drawn in the ballot for his age-group is considered for call-up. However, some men fail to meet the standards of fitness required by the Army. Others such as Ministers of Religion or men whose conscientious beliefs have been determined by a court, may be granted exemption from the liability to render service under the relevant provisions of the National Service Act. Other men may be granted indefinite deferment because they are married before call-up action for their age-group commenced. 
Men who fail to register at the required time and who do not fall within any of the above groups may be called up irrespective of the result of the ballot and men who are balloted out may volunteer for service. 
In addition men who choose not to be included in the ballot at the time when they are required to register but instead undertake to render alternative service in the Citizen Forces, may be called up for national service if they do not comply with their undertaking. 
Yes. 
The results of the 12th National Service Ballot drawn on 28th September 1970 have been published. The results of future ballots will be published. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following table shows the percentages of men examined who have not been accepted for national service for medical, educational or psychological reasons in each year since 1965. 
1965- 39.7 
1966- 48.8 
1967- 51.2 
1968- 50.0 
1969- 47.9 
1970- 51.2 
No information is available or required to be made available to me or officers of my Department concerning the incomes of families of national service registrants. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Under the National Service Act registrants have the same rights, obligations and liabilities. When called up they are required to render the same period of service and, subject to variations arising from differences in rank and trade grouping, receive similar rates of pay and allowances. Accordingly, it has been decided that employers should not be required by law to make up the difference, if any, between the pay which a national serviceman would have received in his civilian employment and his service pay. This is the policy the Government adopted when the National Service Scheme was introduced and which it has maintained. 
I might add that it is most difficult to make an unqualified comparison between a man's civilian pay and his position in the Army. In addition to his basic pay, a soldier receives allowances related to the particular circumstances of his service and benefits such as free medical and dental care. Some, including quite a proportion of those with higher qualifications, are selected for officer training or allocation to postings carrying special group classifications. Additionally, a national serviceman contributes to the Defence Forces Retirement Benefit Fund which provides him with a gratuity on discharge and insurance against the risks of invalidity or death. He may also receive various other benefits on discharge such as entitlements under the Defence (Re-establishment) Act and the War Service Homes Act. 
It would be inconsistent with the present policy bases if the Government were to act as the honourable member suggests. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am advised that the United States LaborManagement Reporting and Disclosure Act of 1959 contains provisions of the kind referred to by the honourable member. I am also advised that the Woods Report on 'Canadian Industrial Relations' (December 1968) recommended that legislation be introduced to guarantee rights of the kind referred to by the honourable members but that to date no such legislation has been enacted. 
In respect of the first of the guarantees referred to by the honourable member the United States Labor-Management Reporting and Disclosure Act 1959 provides: 
No member of any labor organisation may be fined, suspended, expelled or otherwise disciplined except for non-payment of dues by such organisation or by any officer thereof unless such  a  member has been (A) served with written specific charges; (B) given a reasonable time to prepare his defence; (C) afforded a full and fair hearing.' 
This provision is in effect a legislative statement of the principles of natural justice, which the Commonwealth Industrial Court requires to be observed in disciplinary proceedings under the rules of organisations registered under the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act. The intended exclusion of these principles by any rule would be ground for an application under section 140 for a declaration that the rule contravenes that section as being oppressive, unreasonable or unjust and the consequence of such a declaration would be that the rule is void. 
As to the second guarantee referred to by the honourable member, section 101 (a)(1) of the United States Act provides: 
Every member of a labour organisation shall have equal rights and privileges within such organisation to nominate candidates, to vote in elections or referendums of the labor organisation, to attend membership meetings and to participate in the deliberations and voting upon the business of such meetings, subject to reasonable rules and regulations in such organisation's constitution and bylaws. Discriminatory treatment as between members of an organisation registered under the Commonwealth Act based on a rule of the organisation would also be a ground for an application under section 140. In addition, section 141 provides a means of redress for a member subjected to discriminatory treatment not authorised by an organisation's rules. 
The United States and Australia have adopted different methods in guaranteeing rights to members of labour organisations. Historically the United States has favoured conferring such rights in the form of a Bill of Rights. Australia has followed the British practice of not conferring rights in this form. However, the provisions of the Commonwealth Act which provide means for the invalidation of any rule of an organisation which is unreasonable, oppressive or unjust and for the performance or observance of any rule of such an organisation provide a more extensive protection of the rights of members than does the United States Act which guarantees only specified rights to members of labour organisations in that country. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
An examination of the 2,416 cases recorded as being under investigation at 30th June 1970, which was conducted as at 12th October 1970, showed that, at that date, 315 had been finalised, 272 had been found not to be in breach of the Act and 43 had been prosecuted and convicted. These figures form part of the annual review of the current status of all persons who have registered for national service and I expect to make the next statement as at 30th June 1971. 
The  answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There is a range of official records which include men of national service age though no one set of records comprehends all men. 
Investigations have shown that the great majority of men register at the required time. Some others who fail to do so subsequently register eithervoluntarily or when requested to do so by my Department. Persons who are liable to register bus fail to do so at the proper lime are liable for prosecution and to be called up for service regardless of the result of the ballot conducted for their age-group. Up to 31st December 1970, 589.635 men have registered for national service and 961 have been fined for failure to register. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
to (4) There is no means available at this stage of identifying the 2.038 individuals who were recorded at 30th June 1969 as being under investigation for suspected breaches of the National Service Act, and the information requested cannot be provided. See, however, Question No. 1912. 
The Leader of the Opposition will,  1  am sure, be advantaged in understanding this situation when he realises that there is a running audit. He can take any date he likes and as at that date I can give an answer but it would not be desirable to maintain constantly total records which deal with matters that are already resolved. The particular matter to which the honourable member has referred is, as 1 understand it, failure to register. 
Yes, suspected breaches. The 3 points of breach are: failure lo register; failure to undergo a medical examination, and failure to obey a call-up notice. The. latter two are in very small dimensions because they are identifiable persons upon whom the Department serves a requisitionto report for medical examination or for call-up. But those who fail to register are in a different category. There are a great number of people who write to the Department or something of that kind and say that some person has failed to register. The allegation may be quite fallacious in that there is no such person or it may be that the person is a member of the permanent forces or something of that kind. There is a running audit held and at any time I can tell the honourable member how many people have been prosecuted. This figure has already been given. I can tell him at any date how many people are under investigation at that point of time. However, [ would not require my Department, particularly a section which is very busily engaged in important affairs of State, to maintain records which would only serve the purpose of answering questions such as those asked by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition as to what unknown persons, unreal persons or persons with no obligation have been investigated. That is my attitude. I think it is a proper altitude and it is one to which I propose to adhere. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The provisions of this Bill are the same as those contained in the House of Representatives (Quorum of Members) Bill 1970, as I presented it to the House on 1st September last. The Standing Orders Committee by a report presented to the House by  Mr Speaker  on 18th August 1970, recommended a number of changes to the Standing Orders and in addition recommended a reduction in the quorum from one-third to one-fifth of the number of members. A series of votes in principle were taken on the various matters with the intention that subsequent substantive appropriate action would be taken to give effect to the whole of the members of the House expressed in a free vote. This was done. The appropriate action in respect of the quorum of the House was legislation, as section 39 of the Constitution requires any changes to be made by the Parliament, that is by both Houses. 
On 4th September 1970, debate on the Bill occurred. The honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  proposed an amendment in these terms: 
Provided that if it appears on the report by the tellers of a division of the House that  one-third  of the whole number of members is not present, no decision of the- House shall be considered lo have been arrived at by such division. 
After considerable discussion and suggestions around the chamber, the form of the amendment became: 
Provided that for a division to be declared carried, one-third of the whole number of members must be present, otherwise no decision of the House shall be considered to have been arrived at by such division. 
This amendment was carried by 38 votes to 34 votes. Since the Bill, as amended, was passed by this House, it has been the subject of examination by the Standing Orders Committee and a report which  Mr Speaker  presented to the House on 17th February 1971. The report; has the support, of the majority of the Committee, consisting of  Mr Speaker,  the. Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton),  the  Chairman  of Committees  (Mr Lucock),  the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard),  the Leader of the House - that is myself-Sir John McEwen, whom I have nominated by name - at the time the report was made he was a member of the House but, he has since retired - and the honourable members for Ryan  (Mr Drury),  Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  and Corio  (Mr Scholes).  , The minority, consisting of the honourable members for Wills and Capricornia  (Dr Everingham),  dissents. The Committee's majority point to 3 defects in that Bill. as amended. The first defect stems from the fact that it is unclear that the Constitution would permit two quorums, that is : one, quorum for one purpose and a different quorum for another purpose. I remind, the House of the provisions of section. ,39. of the Constitution, which, states: , 
Until the Parliament otherwise provides, the presence of at least one;third of the whole number of the members of the House of Representatives shall be necessary to constitute a meeting of the House for the exercise of its powers. 
This wording implies that a single quorum is contemplated over the totality of the meeting of the House in which it exercises its powers. If, however, there is power to have different quorums for different purposes, then the second defect arises. It is to be found in the- fact that the proviso relating to numbers required in a division in the Bill now before the Senate purports to deal with a matter which, under section 50 (ii) of the Constitution, should be dealt with by this House alone and not by the Parliament as a whole. Section 50 (ii) of the Constitution reads as follows: 
Each Mouse of the Parliament may make rules and orders with respect 10 - 
The order and conduct of ils business and proceedings either separately or jointly with the other Hon.-e. 
Since the Constitution provides that each House of this Parliament may make its own rules and orders on the order and conduct of its own business and proceedings, the principles expressed in the proviso to the Bill should be contained in the Standing Orders of this House and not in an Act of the Parliament, which of course involves the Senate. Section 39 of the Constitution does, of course, leave it to 'the Parliament' to deal with the quorum in the House of Representatives and the Bill now before the House does not go beyond that to matters more appropriately and correctly deal with in the Standing Orders. Thirdly,  Mr Speaker,  a further defect in the Bill now before the Senate arises from an apparent deficiency in the wording of the proviso, which does not deal with the negativing of a question by means of a division. The proviso states that, 'for a division to bc declared carried' one-third of the members of the House must have taken part in the vote. No provision is made for the negativing of a question, which leaves the position that one-fifth voting can negative a question but one-third are needed to pass a question, lt is unclear what would be required in Committee of the Whole. The Standing Orders Committee's majority recommendation is that the Bill which was introduced on 1st September be not further proceeded with in its amended form, but-, that instead a new Bill, similar to that introduced on 1st September, be introduced. The Bill I have just now presented to the House is done in pursuance of that recommendation. 
Assuming the Bill is now passed by the House in this form (as recommended by the report) it leaves for decision the question of whether the Standing Orders should be amended to give effect to the intention embraced by the proviso added to the earlier Bill. There are now 2 contradictory votes. One, of 20th August 1970, for simply a one-fifth quorum: another of 4th September 1970 requiring that, notwithstanding a one-fifth quorum, on a vote, not less than a one-third vote is needed for the division to be effective. A firm and definitive decision now needs to be taken and if the Bill is passed by the House in its introduced form, I will move the motion of which I have given notice to amend the Standing Orders to provide a vehicle for that decision. The amendments are drafted in the form recommended by the Standing Orders Committee as the best form of words if the House does wish to have a minimum requirement of one-third in division. Honourable members will note that the motion provides for the amendments to come into force on the same day as the Bill now before the House comes into force. I should like to make it clear to the House that, although I shall be moving these amendments to the Standing Orders, I will do so only in order that the amendments may bc put before honourable members for their consideration and decision. I do that as Leader of the House to fulfil an official duty. I shall not vote for them myself. This attitude will be consistent with my vote against the amendment proposed to the House of Representatives (Quorum of Members) Bill on 4th September 1970.  Mr Speaker,  I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Barnard)  adjourned. 
 Mr Speaker,  1 move: 
That Notice No. 2. Government Business, ba postponed until the next sitting. 
May I have the indulgence of the House for a moment? The notice that I am postponing is the notice to amend the Standing Orders which I referred to in my second reading speech on the House of Representatives (Quorum of Members) Bill 1971. 
by leave - The word 'productivity' is now being used widely in our public vocabulary. It is taken for granted that it has a real meaning for ordinary people. This is not so and present discussion of the wide-ranging forces that operate within our national economy might make understanding very difficult indeed. Yet it is important that there be a common understanding on a subject that has such personal bearing on us all living together in a community. Higher productivity is not an end in itself, lt is needed simply because it benefits society and each individual in society. Much of the discussion about productivity bears on how society will share in its benefits; in more money, wages and salaries, more profits, lower prices, and all those complex matters that determine the real standard of living which people in a society can enjoy. In fact 2 separate issues are involved. The first is to achieve more to share. The second is the way to share the benefit. Let us put first things first. Let us get on with the job of increasing the whole share, so that arguments about the distribution will have meaning instead of being theoretical debating points. 
As in all Western industrial countries there has been an improvement in the real standard of living in Australia. This is illustrated by very ordinary things. In 1953 there were 13 motor cars for every 100 people in Australia and today there are twice as many. In 1953 there were 16 telephones for every 100 people in Australia and today there are twice as many. In 1953 there were no television sets in Australia and today there are more than 20 for every 100 people. I am not suggesting that these quantitative measures of growth and consumption are the sole indicators of progress; production of useless or harmful commodities can have the opposite effect. Of course, our standard of living has increased in other less quantifiable ways also - greater social security, improved cultural facilities, improved community services, better quality houses and so on. This level of improvement, however, has not been as good as it could have been with more effective effort, that is more productivity. Moreover, without a continuing and faster improvement in productivity, these kinds of benefits cannot be sustained or increased against cost and price pressures. Our annual 2i to 3 per cent productivity improvement taken over the long term is not a fast enough improvement to ensure that the money earned in the wage packet or in salaries will buy more in real terms or even continue to buy what it does today. 
The cost of producing all goods or services is influenced by many factors and it is not necessary to detail them. But a simple truth is that waste of any kind, material or effort is the very negation of productivity. It is in the interests of us all that the difference between productivity and production be clearly understood. Production is the volume of goods and services measured without regard to the resources that are used up. Productivity is the volume of goods and services measured in relation to the resources that are used up. The more resources that are used up in production, the higher the unit cost of each article must be. An efficient, economical cook will get better and more cakes out of a mix than a wasteful cook. The better the use we make of our resources the higher the level of our productivity. This statement is true on a national basis and true of each organisation and of each person. The better he uses the time he has the more he will get out of it. The better he uses the materials with which he has to work the more he will make out of them. The better he uses the equipment at his disposal the more efficient will be his production. The end result will be that the unit cost should be lower for every article and every service he produces. To say that we need higher productivity is to say that we need to reduce the unit cost of everything we produce whether they be goods or services. 
It is no wonder, therefore, that the word productivity' has come to be used with increasing emphasis and frequency in discussions concerning industry and commerce, and the community generally. People in many countries are reminded almost every day of its importance. It is discussed at meetings of the International Labour Organisation; politicians, journalists, economists and industrialists have emphasised the need for productivity continuously and urgently. Governments have actively promoted the concept. In some countries, employers associations and trade unions have established, both separately and together, at the national as well as at the industrial level, agencies for furthering increased productivity. International productivity councils and bodies of various kinds have been founded, and practically all the professional bodies and learned societies that can be expected to have an interest in productivity show such interest actively. Out of all this discussion and consideration, one conclusion has become abundantly clear. That is, it is at the level of each single enterprise that a concern for productivity is most critical if the national total is to be improved. Society derives its strength from the performance of each individual industrial or commercial unit. It is at the level of the individual establishment that our productivity performance is determined. 
The single enterprise is overridingly important because this is the level at which a nation's people with their individual drive, performance and attitude make their vital contribution. It is the level at which our industrial and commercial effort produces goods and services efficiently and of a high quality, or inefficiently and of a minimally accepted quality. It is the level where the contribution of all our technical and financial know-how finally depends upon the attitudes of the individual manager, supervisor and factory or office worker - from the board room to the plant floor. This matter of attitude, 1 believe, is the key to higher productivity. I have said that the achievement of higher productivity depends on how effective we all are at making the best use of the resources, in terms of the equipment, materials and manpower that we have. But to make the best use of something presumes that there exists a will to do so. If this will does not exist we are seriously handicapped. The endeavour to increase productivity in Australia requires a will among its people to do so. 
How does a society go about securing this will among its people? Various methods can be suggested. Massive propaganda campaigns could be mounted, and have been mounted in some countries. But both experience and a common-sense look at the obvious fallacy of progagandmethods in society today tell us that this would not only be unsuccessful, but that it would be wrong to use such methods, even for such an important end. 
We need an approach that accepts that people are intelligent adults, one aimed at building an atmosphere of understanding in the community of what contributes to productivity and how it contributes. 
Except for the converted minority, Australians do not have much appreciation of the role of productivity in our economy. Thus 3 questions of vital importance emerge. 
How can we increase the knowledge of all citizens about productivity - what it means, and how it affects each individual as well as the economy as a whole? 
What can be done to encourage the development of new approaches to increasing productivity? 
How can we intensify productivity action and direct it towards the solution of our most pressing national problems? 
There has, 1 am happy to say, been some concentrated activity in answer to these questions. I single out two for special mention because my own Department has been heavily involved in them. 
The first activity is the establishment of a network, of productivity groups across Australian industry and commerce. There are 182 of these groups in which over 3,700 undertakings participate - manufacturing companies, public instrumentalities and commercial concerns. They work together in such a way as to help productivity in one another's establishment and to spread a climate of opinion that makes productivity improvement an immediate goal. The people in productivity groups are oriented towards manufacturing and commerce. They have come lo realise in working together that higher productivity results from the more efficient working segments of their organisations. They see also that there is a chain effect from a small change in any office procedure or work method, causing it to spread into other parts of their organisations. The members of productivity groups work together on common productivity problems and exchange ideas on how their separate working methods might be improved. They search for ideas that can be transferred and adapted. This is what is being accomplished through productivity groups in all states. 
While it is understood that work tasks and organisations differ, a participant can see that in almost everyone else's establishment he will find something that can help him solve problems with which he is faced in his work. The productivity groups have shown, for example, that some of the production methods used in a carton factory were used with success in a tannery. They have shown that the training equipment used in a tobacco factory applied without modification in a chemicals factory. A safety programme in a heavy metals plant brought immediate results to a light engineering organisation. These examples multiplied a thousand times indicate how productivity ideas are transferred from one establishment to another because of the opportunities that productivity groups create for senior executives to see what other people are doing. Productivity groups are bound and sustained by the productivity attitude. They understand that by showing ideas they can reduce not only the costs of their own processes, but, by influencing efficiencies in other firms which may provide, for instance, the materials for those processes, the unit cost of their end product will be reduced. 
However, while the productivity group movement is achieving its objectives where there are participants, the number of organisations which are not benefitting far outnumber the 3,700 member undertakings. In addition, while these developments have been taking place among some managers, the movement has not been able to reach out and communicate the essence, the need, and the implications of productivity. It is not surprising then that there has emerged a number of responsible people in industry, commerce and government who feel that the effort to create a climate of understanding about productivity needs to be broadened. An effort had to be made to reach more people in their capacities as managers and workers but also in their capacity as citizens. The people who saw this need proposed that this educational process required a joint contribution from industry, commerce, trade unions and government. Consequently, the Productivity Promotion Council of Australia was inaugurated as a national body in September 1969. My Department has been providing the administrative and executive services to the Council since that date. This is the second concentrated effort of which T make special mention. 
The Council's main objectives are to promote understanding in the community of the meaning and implications of productivity and to stimulate efforts towards better productivity performance. This is no mean task. Although the Council is still in its infancy, it has already gathered the financial support of over 550 members from some of the largest to some of the smallest companies in Australia. In the membership, also, are more than 70 organisations and professional bodies throughout Australia whose deliberations impinge on productivity promotion. The Councils National Committee is composed of prominent representatives from industry, commerce, government and employer organisations, and its articles of association provide for representation from the trade union movement. In fact, the Australian Council of Trade Unions is presently considering an invitation to nominate representatives. The Productivity Promotion Council has branch committees in 4 States and standing advisory panels on education, on manpower and on management. 
One of the Council's first actions was to assess what people understood about productivity and its implications. To this end, it arranged a national survey through the gallup poll. The results produced fresh evidence of what I said at the outset about the community's understanding of productivity and its influence. The details are worth quoting. Although 72 per cent of the people interviewed had consciously heard of the word 'productivity', only 12 per cent knew reasonably accurately what it meant. Correct knowledge was lowest amongst semi-skilled workers. Professional people and managers did not do much better; only 22 per cent had a good comprehension of the term. A second survey carried out among members of the Council supported these findings. Half of the respondent members considered that the main factor inhibiting productivity was the lack of awareness of the advantages of productivity improvement on the part of managers and supervisors. Others blamed many other factors including employee attitudes, resistance to change and militant union activity. The Council has already embarked on an extensive programme of education. It has distributed to industry and the general community a number of pamphlets and publications directed at informing people of the potential benefits of higher productivity and its relationship to an increased standard of living. It has organised and conducted conferences, seminars, and exhibitions on techniques for productivity improvement. This Council deserves a lot of support. It has a big job ahead but it is a job that has to be done. 
The productivity group movement and the Productivity Promotion Council of 
Australia are, of course, not the only bodies that are making contributions to community understanding. Many others could be mentioned such as the Australian Institute of Management, the Institution of Engineers, and the numerous professional and technical societies concerned with accounting, marketing, personnel management and the like. The technical educationalists could be mentioned together with the universities and the Colleges of Advanced Education. With so many bodies at work, one would expect the general awareness of the part that the level of productivity plays in our daily lives to be sharper than it obviously is. 
The problems of communication are obviously great and we have not solved them. How do we explain to the community that absence from work amounts to the reduction of the nation's work force by 200,000 persons. Not all of this absence is; of course, avoidable; some is caused by sickness, some by injury, some by domestic emergencies. But we all know that some, perhaps much, absence is avoidable. How do we explain to the community that rapid job-changing costs about $50m a year? Again, not all of this job-changing is avoidable, but, to the extent that some is, community costs could be saved. How do we get managers to understand that strong efforts are needed to provide the kind of work satisfaction for people that attracts rather than repels them from some work situations? How do we explain to the community that injury and accident rates in industry alone cause roughly the equivalent of withdrawing some 17,000 persons from the work force? This has no regard to injuries that occur away from the work place. 
I would not wish to be misunderstood when I say that the key to productivity improvement lies in attitudes. There are many other factors that affect productivity performance - the design of articles, the size of markets, the allocation of resources within the individual concern so as to produce an optimum result, the quality of management, industrial relations and the training of the work force. To some of these I am presently giving active attention. There will be a national conference on training this year so that appropriate persons can consider ways and means of improving the quality of work training. 
Later in the year there will be a national conference on industrial safety at which there will be an opportunity to re-assess the action being taken to improve our very inadequate safety performance. Nevertheless, although all these things affect productivity performance in one way or another, the common factor that runs through them all is people, their understanding, and their attitudes. 
Throughout this statement, I have emphasised the importance of understanding and of attitudes in any endeavour to achieve higher productivity. I have avoided any suggestion of pinpointing culprits or villains. There is no thought in my mind that people do not want higher productivity or do not wish to behave in a way that will get it. There is no suggestion that there is blame to be laid specifically at the door of workers or of managers or of citizens. 
There can be no attitude about a thing until it is understood. I believe that the reason higher productivity and its implications are not understood is because not enough effort has been made to explain it, and explain it in a way that ordinary intelligent people can grasp. I believe that given the facts, people will determine their attitudes for themselves in the light of what they consider the best interests of all. 
I propose to encourage in every way possible the efforts of all bodies that seek to produce objective and simple explanations for public dissemination and discussion. 
We are low achievers in regard to productivity growth. Productivity is a key element in our capacity for economic and social advancement. The commitment of all of us to the understanding and securing of productivity improvement is a matter of very great national importance. I present the following paper: 
Productivity and (he Community - Ministerial Statement, 23rd February 1971. 
Motion (by  Mr  Killen) proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr  Clyde Cameron) adjourned. 
I assume the honourable gentleman quoted me correctly. I made a statement to that effect in October when I believed, as 1 believe today, that a primary requirement in the Australian economic atmosphere is restraint on the part of those seeking wage increases in view of the fact that wage increases bring about an increased unit cost of production and with it increased prices. 1 have said also that apart from restraint by unions and trade union leaders in their own interests, so as not to make money increases sheer illusory increases, they should be looking for increased real wages and the way to increase real wages is not to put pressure on the unit cost of production but instead to look for more effective ways of production and to increase productivity. 
So far as the entrepreneurial section of the community is concerned, I asked for restraint in those sections of commerce where, in a fully employed economy as we have had over the last 2 decades, there is always a situation of strong demand. In a situation of strong demand there can be areas of structural excess demand. In those areas the people should not take advantage of the situation to increase prices in order to increase profitability. The restraint I have called for is an equal restraint on both sides. I only hope that both sides apply that restraint. In relation to the last part of the question relating to Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd, as I read the newspaper reports - I have not seen the statement - it was announced by the  Chairman  of that company that there would be restraint on steel prices in view of the request by the Government for restraint. 
Pursuant to Section 70 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act 1904-1970, 1 present the Fourteenth Annual Report of the  President  of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission for the year ended 13th August 1970. 
The answer to the honour able member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Men who applyfor exemption from the liability to render military service on the grounds of conscientious beliefs they claim to hold may, upon hearing and determination of their application by a court: 
be granted total exemption, in which case they are not required to render any service at all; 
be granted exemption from duties of a combatant nature, in which case they are liable to undertake non-combatant duties in the Army; or 
be refused any exemption, in which case they remain liable for all service duties. 
The following table sets out the position with regard to men who have applied for total exemption since the inception of the present national service scheme: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The purpose of the ballot is to determine those registrants who remain liable for service subject to the provisions for exemption or indefinite deferment and to their meeting the standards of fitness for Army service. Other men may also be liable for service irrespective of the result of the ballot, viz. those who volunteer for service prior to the ballot, those balloted out who subsequently volunteer for service, those who fail to register at the required time and are liable for service without benefit of the ballot, and those who, having undertaken to serve alternatively in the Citizen Forces, become liable for full-time service if they fail to comply with their undertaking. The statistics below comprehend all men who in the particular period became liable for service. They have been compiled on a financial year basis since June 1967; prior to that date they were maintained by calendar years. 
I would think that all economists would accept the proposition that a wage policy geared to productivity must achieve a less inflationary economic atmosphere than otherwise. I have no doubt that the problem the  President  of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission was referring to was the fact that in a productivity-geared wage policy there are two other factors. One is other award payments for all manner of things apart from national wage cases, and the other, of course, is over award payments over which the Commission does not have control. One of the very real factors which has emerged in the economy over the last 3 or 4 years is the increasing proportion of total wages which come from overaward payments. Last year, when average wage increases were about 8 per cent, some 40 per cent of this increase was achieved through over award payments right outside the Commission's jurisdiction and this, of course, had very little regard to productivity. I think this is the sort of thing that the  President  was referring to. The difficulty that is manifest is that unions and union leaders are using their industrial power to force these over award payments in order to receive money increases, forgetting altogether that the money increase turns out to be an illusory increase for it is only a money increase and does not constitute a real increase in purchasing power. 
 The Leader of the Opposition feels that he has cause for suspicion. He has none at all. 
It is not circumstantial. This is where the honourable gentleman has jumped to a wrong conclusion. I received a letter from the  President  of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission some little while ago. With that letter he forwarded to me a copy of the report he intended to make. He informed me that as soon as it was possible he would have the paper printed in a way in which it could be presented to the House. I forget now how many copies are required for distribution, but a number of copies are required. I then heard no more of the matter until yesterday morning when a copy of the report was on my table with a note on it saying: 'Arrangements have been made for this to be tabled today'. I picked the report up off my table, brought it into the Parliament and tabled it yesterday. That was the way in which it. occurred. If the honourable gentleman feels that there is any circumstance that he finds unreal, I invite him to inquire from the  President  of the Commission and I invite him to inquire from a  Mr O'Regan  who is the departmental officer in Canberra. I will ask the department officer to answer his questions. I am sure that  Sir Richard  Kirby would be willing to do so, also. 
 So far as the debate is concerned, I see much more significance in debating the productivity statement which I made because the report of the  President  of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission deals with the year up to 13 August 1970. Therefore, it relates to events at a totally different period from that which is attracting attention today. However, the report is dated 11 December. The productivity report and the statement can be debated as the matter of arrangement with the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. As far as the report of the  President  of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission is concerned, I will confer with the Prime Minister as to a date when that can be debated. 
 Mr Speaker,  this is the sixth motion of no confidence moved in this House in the last 16 months- 

 - Mr Speaker, this is the sixth motion of no confidence moved in this Parliament in 16 months. This motion of no confidence is a mere tactic for the parliamentary polemics which poured out from the Opposition today. Typical of them is the repeated assertion that has been made in this House that my colleague, the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  did not know of the decision to increase pensions before it was announced. It arose this way: It is a long standing practice that when an important announcement is made in this House the same statement will be made in the Senate by the Minister who represents there the Minister who made the statement in this House. The nature of the question asked by  Senator Murphy  was: 
Are we now to have these important national announcements made in circumstances where even the Leader of the Government in the Senate is not told of them beforehand or is not given an opportunity to inform the Senate? 
That was an assertion. It has been continuously repeated without warrant or justification by the Opposition, and in many ways it typifies the attitude of the Opposition in this debate. It is prepared to make allegations unsupported by fact. The 
Leader of the Government in the Senate immediately responded and said:  1 cannot be expected to give a responsible answer to the Leader of the Opposition about something which he has presumably heard. 
Presumably, the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate was sitting in this chamber and heard what was said while the Leader of the Government was silling where he should have been - in the Senate chamber, if any statements are to be made in this place, they are made  nl  the proper time in accordance with the procedures of this House. With great respect to  Senator Murphy.  1 think that what he has done today is singularly inappropriate and I hope that, upon reflection, he will think so. Apparently he does not think so because no doubt the information that has led to the perpetration of the continued assertion that  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson did not know of that decision when quite clearly he did, came from him. 
The events of last week have been greatly publicised, and 1 will not traverse them in any detail. They were resolved in the Liberal Party room. They are past and the Party's future will be built on the 2 essential points that remain. Firstly, a new Leader of the Liberal Party has been elected, and he is now the Prime Minister. Secondly, there will be continuity of a policy of free enterprise for the individual member of society, and an equitable social system is preserved for this Parliament. As to the new Leader who has been elected by the Liberal Parly, he has had more than 20 years experience in more portfolios than the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  today cared to take the time to recite. He did not care to enumerate them. The record of the Leader of the Liberal Party stands. The Opposition professed to admire him at earlier times, but now for political purposes it jettisons its claim to objectivity. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  does not serve alone. He has with him Ministers, from senior Ministers with long experience to the newer ones, and they all have pledged their support. Tonight in this chamber we heard the Minister for Defence  (Mr Gorton)  so pledge himself. We can add to this the unanimous support of all other members of the Parliamentary Liberal Party. Their support is not a mere willingness to go along; it is a conviction that in the policies of the Liberal Party, in coalition with the Australian Country Party, Australia's interests are best served. They have equally the conviction that this country's progress will be impeded by a Socialist Labor government. The Country Party Leader  (Mr Anthony)  has committed his Party - I am sure unanimously - to maintain the Government in office here and at the polls. We are rightly confident that we will identify and correctly handle the problems that lie between us today and the polls in 1972. Whether wc are to have that opportunity depends on the vote shortly to be taken. Given the attitudes 1 have described, I am confident we will. 
The second essential point I make concerns continuity of policy. The Leader of the Opposition has succeeded in injecting the usual semantics into his arguments. He puts emphasis on the statement by the Prime Minister that 'all policies arc open to review'.- Of course they are - in our Party, in our way, in the Party' room and in the Cabinet room. He does not understand this concept, living in his environment of a disciplined policy regime dictated by a nonelected body, lt would have more neatly fitted into a dusty cranny of the ALP if the Prime Minister had said: 'No policies are subject to review'. lt is a quite extraordinary contradiction that the Australian Labor Party should be so reactionary in its attitudes and yet have picked up the banner of  radicalism to humour some of its members. 'Put out more flags', wrote Evelyn Waugh. 'Pui out more banners', echo the intellectuals. 'Put out more Socialism', respond the sages of power in the ALP. But the Leader of the Opposition says: 'How is that statement, that policy is subject to review, consistent with the other claims to continuity?' The Government will maintain the broad sweep of policies we began in this Parliament after the 1969 elections. We will maintain the security of this country by developing selfsufficient and versatile armed forces. Wc will continue to act as responsible and reliable neighbours in this area of the world. In particular, we will advance Papua and New Guinea further towards selfgovernment. 
Our attitude to economic affairs has always been one of support for a policy of full employment and the development of our natural resources. We have taken action on some of the long term problems of rural industries. Further study on the needs of the rural sector is proceeding and will continue to produce steps to deal with the problems. Recognising the importance of transport in the cost structure of the economy, we are establishing the Bureau of Transport Economics to provide us with better information to use as a basis for policy formulation. We have achieved a new and more comprehensive health scheme. We will continue to seek better CommonwealthState relations. That is just to name some of our programmes. AH of these programmes and the others that have been introduced or announced will be maintained and strengthened by the McMahon Government. The Government's philosophy is still the same. The' policy initiatives are still valid. 
We have a Government majority of seven. In this vote you,  Mr Speaker,  will be in the Chair. The seat for the electorate of Murray is temporarily vacant. The honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  is hospitalised and unpaired. Temporarily his health would be endangered to to come here. The Leader of the Opposition has refused him a pair. Our majority will hold and will continue to hold in support of the Prime Minister, the parties and the Government. The Constitution provides that a parliament is elected for a 3-year term. That is the basis on which the parties conduct their politics. That is the basis that people understand. That is the way the Governor-General considers the matter. He grants a dissolution in less than 3 years when he is satisfied that no persons commands a majority on the floor of the House of Representatives. This is historic. This is the institution of government and of Parliament, and it will not be bent to the ambitions of the ALP or of its Leader. 
We will soon know whether a majority supports the Prime Minister. But it is worth asking the rhetorical question: 'Why does the Leader of the Opposition want an election?' He believes, apparently, that he has an advantage if we poll now. Perhaps he has, but he has no great record as a political tipster. Cruising around his mind is the aphorism 'Governments get defeated - Oppositions don't get elected'. He could testify to the accuracy of the second part after all these years, and I think there is a spine tingling excitement in him that perhaps the first part sometimes is true. It would solve, so many of his problems if he could avoid developing positive policies. That is when the Labor Party really has problems. 
The problem for the Opposition is that it is viable only as an Opposition. It has a critical faculty perfected by practice. But when it enters the sphere of positives - of creating positive and consistent policy - it finds the rainbow rather difficult to run down. Whenever a leader in the Labor Party makes a policy statement on an issue it causes dismay and dissention in some quarter. There are, and always have been, factions in the Party. Examples are well known to those who follow public affairs. What sore of compatibility exists on the fundamental issue of tariff policy between the Leader of the Opposition and the shadow Minister for Trade and Industry, the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)?  One of them says: 'There was a day when tariffs were necessary to give industrial employment in Australia. Our tariff structure is one of the principal causes of inflation and rising prices.' The other has been - and in spite of his recent re-assessment still remains - an archprotectionist. I leave it to the House to decide which is which. 
What of the howl of dismay that went up during the last Senate election campaign when  Mr Whitlam  dipped into his Pandora's box of tricks and pulled out Indonesia as the forward line of defence? Who in the Labor Party does and does not wish to leave troops in Singapore? The Party cannot speak with accord on conscription unless it ignores the defence issues, and it finds this the preferable course. What of industrial policy, as far as there is one? Does the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  speak for the Labor Party on arbitration matters, or is it to be the shadow Minister for Labour and National Service, the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  who just a week or so ago openly and categorically disagreed with the honourable member for Oxley? As far as rural policies are concerned, the electors' view of the ALP policy depends on whether they listen to the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson),  who is supposed to be the Opposition spokesman on rural affairs, or the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby),  who seems to do most of the talking, as he is trying to do now. On immigration policy there is a definite conflict within the Australian Labor Party. The honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  has in the past supported a bi-partisan immigration policy. He has always done this and has always been most consistent. The honourable member has described the Labor Party's policy as being similar to that of the Government.  Mr Dunstan,  the Labor Premier of South Australia, clearly disagrees. But then an honourable member on his white charger came in to resolve the issue. In an attmpt to avoid conflict the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  is reported to have said that Labor's policy was meant to be ambiguous and there was room in the Party for varying interpretations. 
Have we witnessed loyal support and deep accord between the Leader of the Opposition in this chamber, the honourable member for Werriwa, and the Leader of the Opposition in the other place,  Senator Murphy?  Rather we have been seeing a long standing conflict between the 2 on a number of matters, none so obvious as the issue of organisational philosophy and practice within their Party. Time does not permit more than a mere mention of the schisms of right and left in the Australian Labor Party. Periodically it is denied there are 2 wings - but the machine cannot fly on one and currently great effort is going into getting them to flap together. Then, of course, during an election campaign it is London to a brick that somebody will make a most damaging statement. The Leader of the Opposition is a practised giver and receiver of the shock announcement during an election campaign. The conduct of industrial relations by a Labor government would be quite impossible. If it attempted responsibility it would tear off massive pieces of the flesh of its support - the trade union movement. When did the Opposition last condemn a strike? It gives support, more especially when strikes are politically based, for which there can be no settlement. When did the Opposition argue positively for increased productivity which is the real base on which our national economy rests? When did the Opposition argue positively for the training of men and women to realise their skill potential so that they can find work satisfaction and contribute more to the community, or for management skill which is an integral part of an efficiency drive? 
When did the Opposition ask for anything except fewer working hours and more wages? When will it understand that prices will rise if costs rise and that when wages go up costs will rise without productivity improvement? When will the Opposition understand this? Members of the Opposition cannot contribute to an economic debate - they are cliche bound. In opposition the Australian Labor Party is a pity; in government it would be disasterous. We stand collectively as 2 parties and as individual members who make up each of the parties. We stand committed to the development of this nation in every way and to the welfare of the people whom we were elected to serve. We all will continue that commitment in the knowledge that this is what the Australian people want. We, the Liberal Party with our Australian Country Party colleagues, were elected to do this and, together, do it we will. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the report of the Australian Delegation to the International Labour Conference Fifty-Second Session - 1968. 
I move; 
That the Bill be now read a second time.  lt is customary for national wage case decisions of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, which are applied to the salaries of officers of the Second, Third and Fourth Divisions of the Commonwealth Public Service, to be applied also to the generality of statutory office-holders whose salaries are below those payable to Permanent Heads of Departments of State. 
This Bill provides for increases of 6 per cent in the salaries of the statutory officeholders shown in the first schedule to the Bill. Honourable members will appreciate that the rate of increase of 6 per cent is identical with that granted by the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in its 1970 national wage case decision. This Bill is necessary because of the particular legislative provisions existing for the statutory offices referred to in the first schedule to the Bill. In the cases of various other comparable statutory officeholders, approval has been given for the 6 per cent increase to bc applied, subject to compliance with the requirements of relevant legislation. The Bill provides that, as in the Commonwealth Public Service, the 6 per cent increase will apply from 14th January 1971. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
Sitting suspended from 5.55 to 8 p.m. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am informed that no application has ever been made to the Commission under section 33a of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act to insert in an award a clause of the nature referred to by the honourable member. 
Question on Notice  (Question No. 2668) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The honourable member has been provided with an up-to-date answer to his question, as at 31st December 1970. (Hansard, 22nd February 1971, page 470.) 
Question on Notice  (Question No. 2667) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The honourable member has been provided with an up-to-date answer to his question, as at 31st December 1970. (Hansard, 24th February 1971, page 623.) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
New South Wales and Queensland. I am advised that the Governments of both States have the matter under active consideration. 
Yes. 
The discussions were completed in October, 1970 and the position of Australian laws and practices in relation to the Convention clarified. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) I would again refer the honourable member to the I.L.O. publication 'Measuring Labour Productivity' which contains information on various national series relating to labour productivity and provides details of indices of labour productivity in a number of countries. 
The honourable member will note that the form and content of his questions are essentially identical with those of the Indices of Labour Productivity, 1956-68, in Appendix 2 of the I.L.O. Publication. 
The questions were first placed on the notice paper for 20th October 1970 and the House rose on 30th October 1970. The questions were answered at the outset of the current Session. 
Yesterday the Commonwealth Industrial Court imposed fines of $100 a day for the period covered by the notice in relation to Commonwealth Engineering (N.S.W.) Pty Ltd. That strike commenced on 19th January and the strike still continues. The procedures taken in relation to that notice were taken under the amended legislation that came into effect last year. The purpose of that legislation was to make it clear that action in the courts should be the last resort and that there should be opportunity for the consideration of merits before a matter went to court. That this has been done here is apparent from the length of the strike. It has been before one conciliator, 3 commissioners and a presidential member who spent 6 days trying to settle the matter before he issued his certificate. 
One thing has been made abundantly clear, and that is that the law must be enforced. There are 2 very important principles involved. One is that no union or group of unions can stand above the law. The second is that the industrial law is depended upon by 95 per cent of the Australian community. I have used that figure before, and it was used by the Leader of the Opposition and another front bench member of his Party in a debate this week. The principle involved is: Does the arbitration system survive? No other principle is involved. It is in the interest of 95 per cent of the community that the system survive. Some who possess power, and want a situation in which they take the best of the arbitration system and its benefits, put the system in jeopardy by saying: 'Irrespective of what we have gained by the use of force we will press for more.' I believe that when the Government considers this matter in detail it will come to the conclusion that the interests of this nation require that the system should be maintained and therefore that thelaw should be enforced. 
In 1969 we, as a nation, suffered from almost 2 million man-days lost by strikes. In 1970 the figure had climbed to almost 3 million man-days. The strike weapon is two sided. Sometimes it may be serving an immediate purpose to the people on strike, but it does immense social and industrial damage and therefore it is not a weapon that should be acceptable to the public in general.  Mr Hawke  has two distinct identities: He is a captain of commerce apparently, and he is the  President  of the ACTU. When the strike weapon is mobilised to serve political purposes we all condemn it. When it is mobilised to serve an individual commercial purpose the position should be intolerable to the Australian community. If there is a commercial dispute - as apparently there is - it ought to be resolved in a commercial manner, not by depriving this community of the production of the men on strike and not by depriving the families of the men on strike of their income which is so necessary to maintain their standard of living. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The only Convention concerning hours of work which the Australian Government has ratified and which, therefore, it is obligated to apply is Convention No. 47 - Forty-hour Week, 1935 which relates only to standard hours of work. 
Other ILO Conventions dealing with hours of work, including overtime, in the industries, or parts of the industries, referred to in my answer to the honourable member's question No. 2039 are: 
I have had a very great number of letters and representations on this matter. I have asked the Department of the Treasury for advice as to the taxation situation. At this stage 1 have not received any advice from the Department. Therefore I am unable to answer in detail the honourable member's question. However, I think it is worth the comment that I am sure that  Mr Hawke  in his new role as the captain of commerce would realise that he is subject to the same exigencies of competition and incidence of charges as any other commercial man. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The range of information to be collected in the 1971 Population and Housing Census was considered by Cabinet on 27th January 1970 when it was decided to exclude from the 1971 Census Schedule certain new questions which had been tested in the Sydney trial survey of July 1969. 
The Melbourne trial survey of April 1970 sought answers only to approved questions. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In my predecessor's previous answer of 5th May 1970 on this matter (Hansard, page 1628) he provided the details sought of local government debt charges and revenues for New South Wales up to and including 1965-66 and for the other five States up to and including 1967-68. The Acting Commonwealth Statistician is now able to supply the figures for New South Wales (and hence for the six States combined) for 1966-67 and 1967-68, and these are given in the table below, together with corresponding figures (as earlier supplied) for the other States. Similar information for subsequent years is not yet available for any State. 
The Acting Commonwealth Statistician advises that the information sought in relation to semi-government authorities is not able to be supplied, partly due to the fact that available compilations of semi-government revenue on the one hand and of debt charges on the other are not on a consistent basis. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Government believes, along with the governments of most Western nations, that excessive wage increases are a major cause of inflation and that a lower rate of increase in money wages would result in a lower rate of increase in costs and prices. However, the Government does not maintain that excessive wage increases are the only cause of increases in costs and prices. 
Motor  Vehicles: Drivers' Licences  (Question No. 2501) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Acting Commonwealth Statistician has supplied the following information in reply to the Honourable Member's question. The Bureau does not collect statistics of the number of driving licences issued during each year. The statistics available refer to the number of drivers' and riders' licences in force at the dates stated. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Information  on  the profits  of  individual companies is available  from  the offices of the Registrar of Companies  in  the relevant State. 
Safety would no doubt be one aspect of many research projects undertaken by automobile manufacturers or assemblers. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The preparation of a paper as requested by the honourable member would be a formidable statistical and analytical exercise. In my judgement the public benefit to be derived from its publication would not be such as to warrant, in present circumstances, the very considerable diversion of the efforts of the Treasury, including the Statistician's Branch, which would be required. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Recent statistics suggest that the areas of demand in the economy which have been growing particularly strongly have been public sector spending and private investment spending. These constitute the fields where action has so far been taken by the Government in its anti-inflationary programme. Since consumer spending constitutes a very high proportion of internal final demand (nearly 60 per cent in recent years), its trend always bears close watching, especially when there is a threat of total demand running to excess. 
Information on the value of retail sales and on private gross fixed capital expenditure is published by the Commonwealth Statistician in Retail Sales of Goods and in Quarterly Estimates ot National Income and Expenditure respectively. The percentage changes of these as compared with the previous year during the last five years have been as follows: 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Acting Commonwealth Statistician has supplied the following information in answer to the honourable members question: 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Until recently borrowings by the Territory Administration have largely been from local Territory sources or from 'Territory-affiliated' Austraiian sources, that is, Australian institutions which have branches or other interests in the Territory. 
In 1969 it was decided, with the knowledge of the State Premiers through the Loan Council, that the Territory Administration should be permitted some limited direct access to the Ausralian capital market as such, by being allowed io raise up to $2m. annually from non-Territory-affiliated sources in Australia. This limit was increased earlier this financial year to (5m. per annum. 
Arising out of the special circumstances associated with the financing by the Territory Administration of its 20 per cent equity shareholding in the Bougainville copper project, the Administration was authorised to make borrowings totalling $25m. on the Australian .market in two separate placements during 1969-70 and 1970-71. 
 The . answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Acting Commonwealth Statistician has advised that the Bureau of Census and Statistics does not have any information about the average cost of funerals in Australia. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Under the provisions of the income lax law, the Commissioner of Taxation is prohibited from divulging information relating to the affairs of particular taxpayers. For this reason, he is unable to supply any information either as to the amount of income tax paid by the E.Z. Industries group or the level of its profits. 
As income tax is levied on annual income, the accounts for the half year to 31st December 1970 will have to be amalgamated wilh those of the next half year in order to determine the liability to income lax of each company in the group. 
A company carrying on prescribed mining operations is entitled to deductions for various kinds of capital expenditure incurred in carrying on its activities. At the option of the company, the deduction may be allowed in full in the year in which the expenditure is incurred or it may be written off by annual deductions over the life of the mine. 
Where a company elects to claim the total deduction in the year in which the capital expenditure is incurred, the amount on which tax would otherwise he payable is reduced by the amount of that expenditure. If the company follows the normal accounting practice of treating the expenditure as capital in its own accounts and merely charges the appropriate amount of depreciation against the profits of that year, the profits revealed in its accounts will be greater than its income. Depending on the magnitude of the capital expenditure involved, it could happen that a mining company will pay little or no tax in a particular year even though the accounts prepared for presentation to its shareholders disclose a trading profit 
Interest rates have fallen in West Germany. It has been announced that the United Kingdom rate has just been reduced. Perhaps the biggest reduction has been in the United States of America. This reduction was the result of a specific policy pursued by the Government of that country. The reduction of interest rates in the United States had a very marked impact on the Euro-dollar market. However, interest rates vary in all countries because of different circumstances in each country. One of the infortunate things perhaps for some countries affected by the Euro-dollar is that their interest rates may have been changed as a direct consequence of the change in the United States rate without them really wanting this to happen. 
There can be no doubt that so far as Australia is concerned we are not so affected by international interest rates as are some other countries. We may be thankful for that because the inflow of capital into Australia results largely from investment opportunities which this country can offer those people in other countries who have money to invest. We can be thankful for that aspect of our development. The interest rate in Australia is fixed according to the fundamental requirements of our domestic, economic and financial circumstances. At present the interest rate is at the level it is as a most important aspect of Government measures to resist the very great inflationary pressures that exist in Australia today. Honourable members on the other side of the House can take their choice between economic responsibility and chasing after short term political advantage. So far as we on this side of the House are concerned the long term future of Australia is far more important than short term advantage. 
In its review of the economic situation last January the Government reviewed the entire range of the economy and identified a -very real area of excess demand, namely that of expenditure on plant and equipment. At that time the Government decided that it was essential to dampen down the degree of demand in that area. It therefore suspended the investment allowance on plant and equipment. I emphasise that this was a matter taken in the context of the then economic situation. The measures taken to deal with the economic situation must be maintained at this stage and at the appropriate time the Government will reconsider the matter and reach appropriate decisions. 
The honourable gentleman will find nobody more anxious than myself to pass legislation which will limit the capacity for taxpayers to avoid taxation. It is a constant game. Tax evasion is something which is criminal in nature; tax avoidance is something which every taxpayer seeks to achieve. The consequence is that, as he seeks to achieve avoidance, so we, the Government, have to take action to cut off that avoidance. The Ligertwood Committee was a perfect example of this. lt was set up to examine the way in which very large amounts of revenue were being lost because proprietary companies were avoiding tax through all sorts of configurations of the private companies. Subsequently legislation came before this House and was passed. I do not recall what the Opposition's attitude to it was at that time. But since then the Taxation Commissioner and his expert advisers have been constantly looking for ways in which tax avoidance can be prevented. Knowing that the honourable gentleman has a history as a tax investigator, I ask that if he has any information that is still residual in his head, will he please tell me and I will do all I can to follow it through. 
Listening to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  one wonders where he dreamed up the terms of this matter of public importance which for the information of honourable members alludes to: 
The lack of machinery for government consultation and public information on Commonwealth, State and regional finances and functions. 
What the honourable member did was to take the opportunity, which he has so often done, to announce unequivocally and unashamedly that what he wants to achieve is total centralism of government in Australia and it has nothing whatever to do with a lack of machinery for government consultation. He knows that he cannot establish that point. And it has nothing to do with a lack of public information for there are masses of public information. What this matter has to do with, in his view, is to centralise completely government in Australia. That is a view which the Liberal Party and the Country Party in coalition in government cannot accept and it is quite clearly a view which the people of Australia will not accept. This is the dilemma facing the honourable member today. He is hoping that somewhere in the recesses of the minds of the people of Australia there will be a reluctance to accept that Commonwealth and State financial relations must be maintained. The honourable member in trying to capitalise on that then tried without their being witting to it, to divert people into supporting his centralist theories. That is just not the way the matter should emerge. 
In passing the honourable member said that the States yesterday could hardly have got a lesser deal than $40m. I do not know what he intended to imply by that. It is quite clear that he does not understand the way in which the grant was made, the way in which it is to be used and the advantage to State finances or lack of disadvantage to the economic situation flowing from the grant. The Premiers can speak for themselves, and they did speak for themselves as being totally satisfied, including the 2 Labor Premiers, with one of whom the honourable member claims to have a close friendship and from whom he claims close support. I refer to the Premier of South Australia,  Mr Dunstan.  The Leader of the Opposition has made no such claims in relation to the Premier of Western Australia but I take it he has some nodding acquaintance with him. If he has asked them for their opinions he would have got the result and would not have spoken as he has done in this debate. I can believe only that the honourable member is anxious to see economic difficulties in Australia. Indeed the Opposition quite clearly wants to see economic problems because it feels that the only chance it has of obtaining power is to ride into office on economic difficulties. That is why the Opposition constantly does nothing to restrain its colleagues in the labor movement from staging irresponsible strikes, whether they be for industrial or political purposes. The Opposition does not try to achieve productivity in the community because it is hoping for economic problems to arise, but they will not eventuate. If that is the Opposition's idea of sneaking into office it is doomed to failure. 
The next point made by the Leader of the Opposition was a most extraordinary one. He said that yesterday there was no concern for instrumentalities or local government. He is apparently unaware that yesterday the major item for discussion was in the Premiers Conference. There was a meeting of the Australian Loan Council but it dealt with formal matters and did not deal with the 1971-72 loan programme. The major item for discussion was the States' revenue deficits for 1970- 71. That was the matter about which we spoke yesterday. The honourable member has tried to make some capital out of his allegation that there was no discussion of local governments and instrumentalities but all he has done is disclose his complete lack of any, even fundamental, knowledge of what the business of finance is all about. I notice he has even left the chamber, like the well known butcher bird a former Treasurer,  Sir Arthur  Fadden, used to talk about - with the same results. It would be most desirable for the Leader of the Opposition to spend some time with the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  in an endeavour to ascertain the elementary facts about Commonwealth and State financial relations so that he would not make such a fool of himself by making in this House statements such as that there was no concern yesterday for instrumentalities or local government. 
He used that argument as a springboard from which to go to his next point. He said that in the event of the Australian Labor Party coming into office it would construct a new financial agreement with direct representation on the Loan Council. The Loan Council was set up as a result of an agreement with the States. It required an amendment to the Constitution. The Loan Council was set up for the purpose of maintaining the best possible terms of works and services through loan programmes at reasonable rates, in reasonable raisings, and the interests of local government bodies and semi-government bodies are taken into account by the States when the States put forward their proposals for loan programmes. But the honourable member has put forward this impracticable and unreal proposition in order to store his political attitude that there should be centralism in government. Get rid of the State governments is implicit in everything he says. He argued that we should set up regional administrative units, and it is presumably the regional administrative units which would be represented on the Loan Council. He would put the States into a position of total immobility and would deny them reason for existence. 
The Leader of the Opposition went on to speak about resurrecting the interstate commission. It would be a rather busy body. Perhaps that is in accordance with his wishes. It will solve all Commonwealth and State financial relationships, all railway problems, all hospital problems, all fuel problems and, he would have us believe, it will bring much sense into the arrangement of these things. Results will be published for everybody. It will be a very busy body. If any single body can undertake a job of this kind and succeed it will be only because the parliaments of Australia have been prepared to subside their own interests, their own elected duties and loyalties, to serve the political whim of the Labor Party. 
The Leader of the Opposition concluded with a ringing peroration that the public is disillusioned and demoralised. I do not know to which particular group of the community he speaks, but I certainly do not find in the Australian community disillusion and demoralisation. On the contrary I find that in the community there is a great belief in the future of Australia and tremendous confidence in the way it will develop. As I propose to show, there is a highly developed community attitude of social conscience which, at some points, runs almost to a sort of guilt sense that we, such an affluent country, are not doing enough to satisfy the social conscience of the people. If that can be rendered as disillusion and demoralisation 1 can only say no wonder the Labor Party cannot win elections if it so misunderstands the Australian people. 
In terms of Commonwealth and State financial relationships it must be remembered that economic and social policies in Australia today have growing complexity, but what is more important perhaps than complexity is the constant overlapping of function between Commonwealth and State responsibilities. In that circumstance to have a formalised process of communication would, of course, be a council of destruction. What we need in our relations between the States and the Commonwealth are flexible, informal arrangements so that there can be a frank, friendly and free cooperative interchange of views whereby the attitudes, objectives and policies of the States can be disclosed to the Commonwealth and vice versa. Then there can be free and open discussion about how revenues are to be raised which match expenditure. The Leader of the Opposition said that there was no matching of public functions with resources to match the discharge of those public functions. He seems to forget what the Loan Council, Premiers' Conferences and the formula for the distribution of Commonwealth revenues are all about. This is precisely the purpose. This arrangement does things which the Leader of the Opposition would not do in the priorities that he would ascribe. He alleges that it does not exist, but it does exist and nobody should know better than he that it does exist because he put a question on the notice paper which was answered on 12t.h June 1970. Having asked an earlier question he asked the Prime Minister: 
What conferences of Commonwealth and State Ministers and officials have taken place since those listed in his answer of 25th March 1969? 
The answer occupied 10 closely printed pages of Hansard detailing meetings between Commonwealth and State Ministers and officials so nobody would know better than the Leader of the Opposition the situation, but he chose to ignore this. We have made progress in respect of Commonwealth and State financial relations and I need refer back only to last year. The review of the financial assistance grants arrangements last June has done much to improve these relationships. The $200m interest free grant which is now included in the financing of the State works and housing programmes is helping the States with their debt situation. The agreement by the Commonwealth Government to take over debt charges of  1,000m of State debt over 5 years beginning this year will also help them significantly. 
It is a mirage to think that there is some perfect solution to the problems of allocating resources between the Commonwealth and State governments or between governments and the public. There is no perfect solution; it is a mirage to believe there is. Demands for increased expenditure will always outrun governments' abilities to finance them. Earlier I mentioned highly developed community attitudes towards environment, pollution, quality of life and people who are less privileged and less able to work. There are highly developed community attitudes towards external aid for other countries. Demand by the community for money to be spent will always run in advance of government's ability to finance them. When the demands are carried to excess it can exceed the physical resources available to meeting the demands. When this situation arises there is a demand inflation. Broadly speaking citizens can enjoy only the level of government services which they are prepared, through the machinery of taxation, to finance. If the demand exceeds the resources and the money is raised only to send it competing for the demands, that is bad economics and bad for the welfare of the people of Australia. Recognition of this fundamental fact by all governments in Australia led to cutbacks since February in expenditure by both the Commonwealth and all State governments. 
If one wants to point to one single factor more than any other which has unhinged State Budgets - and the Commonwealth Budget to a lesser degree - during the past year it is the extraordinarily large increases in wages and salaries which have been awarded by arbitral tribunals, particularly to State government employees such as nurses, teachers and so forth. Another factor are the increases in amounts which are negotiated - and I put negotiated in inverted commas - with private employers who, under the threat of direct action, have had to concede to demands. It is a pity that employers have done this, but it is a major cause for the unhinging of Budgets. I conclude by asking: When will the Leader of the Opposi tion and his Party recognise the fundamental truths of all these things and do what they can to forestall or cure them? When will the Opposition be, in fact,  Her  Majesty's loyal Opposition devoted to the interests of the people of Australia and not merely devoted to trying to make political capital, to win votes and to seek office? 
 I move: 
That  the  Bill  be now read a second time.  The purpose of this Bill is to obtain parliamentary authority for expenditure in the current financial year for which provision was not made in the Appropriation Act  (No.  1) 1970-71. The total appropriations sought in this Bill amount to $120,968,000. Although additional appropriations are being sought, actual expenditure will not exceed the amounts included in Appropriation Act (No. I) 1970-71 by $120,968,000. As a result of measures taken to reduce Commonwealth expenditure this year, and for other reasons, it is expected that savings of about $50m will be available in existing appropriations to offset the additional appropriations now proposed. lt is not possible, for reasons associated wilh parliamentary control over the appropriation of moneys for specified purposes, to utilise these savings as an offset in the sense that the total new appropriations sought can be reduced to a net figure in this Appropriation Bill. Thus I am seeking parliamentary- authority for additional expenditure in the divisions, sub-divisions and items set out in the Schedule to the Bill. To the extent that an item of any annual appropriation is unexpended the appropriation lapses al 30th June in accordance with section 36 of the Audit Act 190M969. 
I think that honourable members should recognise the fact that, when the then Prime Minister announced on 16th February the Government's intention to reduce expenditures in 1970-71 by $75m in the remainder of the financial year the revised estimates as at December 1970 indicated a net increase of $242m in expenditure since the Budget was prepared. This is the primary reason why, despite the cut back in government spending, it is necessary to ask the Parliament for additional appropriations. This Bill, and the companion Bill, deal only with annual appropriations of the Consolidated Revenue Fund. This Bill does not deal with special, or standing appropriations, nor does it involve the Loan Fund. The reductions announced by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon).  on the other hand, relate to Commonwealth spending as a whole. 
In referring to the intended reduction of $75m in total Commonwealth spending, I should make it clear that at the time it was recognised that further commitments would arise and would need to be considered against the background of the Government's decision. Since then, the Government has approved further commitments but, for the most part, these are special appropriations and are thus not included in the Appropriation Bills Nos 3 and 4. The various items included in this Bill can be considered in detail in Committee and I propose at this stage to refer only to some of the major provisions. 
The additional requirement for departmental salaries is $32. 3m and provides for increases in salaries arising from the national wage case, increases in salaries for the Third Division of the Commonwealth Public Service and increases arising from other arbitration determinations, reclassification of offices and additional staff positions approved earlier in the financial year. Further appropriations totalling SI 3.6m are required for departmental administrative expenses, including $2.1m for overseas representations; $1.5m for rents; SO. 5m consultants' and architects' fees: and S2.3m for increased allowances and other benefits for overseas officers of the Papua and New Guinea Public Service as a result of the flow-on of recent salary increases in the Commonwealth Public Service. The balance is made up of a considerable number of appropriations, each of which is less than $500,000. 
Additional appropriations amounting to $20m for departmental other services include  Si.  7m for the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation;  Si.  3m for Commonwealth scholarships;  Si.  9m for educational purposes in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory, mainly for increases in teachers' salaries;  Sim  for aid to Pakistan and the Khmer Republic;  Si.  2m for embarkation and passage costs for migrants; $2.5m for broadcasting and television services; $1.2m for war and Service pensions and allowances; $1.3m for other repatriation benefits; and $2. 8m for grants under the Aged Persons Homes Act. The balance is made up of a number of appropriations, each of which is less than $500,000. Additional appropriations from the Consolidated Revenue Fund totalling $55m are sought for defence services, including about S35m for increases in Services pay and allowances and increases in salaries of civilian staff, arising mainly from the national wage case and other determinations. However, it is expected that there will be savings of $26m in other defence appropriations and $17m in the Loan Fund. In part these arise from a lower than expected rate of expenditure under the United States Defence Credit Agreement and as a result of rephasing of and lags in both orders and deliveries of defence goods, and to agreed reductions in Commonwealth expenditure in response to the request of February 1971. It is expected that total expenditure from the Consolidated Revenue Fund and Loan Fund on defence services in 1970-71 will exceed the Budget estimate by about $12m. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to obtain parliamentary authority for additional expenditure in 1970-71 amounting to $32.7m on various items relating to capital works and services, payments to or for the States and certain other services. Although additional appropriations of $25.6m are sought for capital works and services it is expected that, because of savings of about $17. 3m in other similar appropriations in Appropriation Act (No. 2) 1970-71, the cash requirement over the Budget estimate for capital works and services will be about $8. 3m. As I explained in relation to the Appropriation Bill (No. 3) it is not possible to utilise savings under an appropriation to offset additional expenditure in another. Unexpended appropriations, of  course,  lapse at 30th June. Although an additional $25, 6m is being sought, it is clear that this will not mean an additional cash outgoing of that magnitude. 
The major requirements are  $0.6m  for buildings, works, plant and equipment at overseas establishments; $1.3m for acquisition of sites and buildings;  Sim  for loans for housing including loans to co-operative building societies in the Australian Capital Territory;  $0.4m  for loans to church organisations for erection of residential accommodation in the Northern Territory; $0.6m as an advance to the Northern Territory Port Authority;  Sim  for war service homes; $12m for payment to the Post Office Trust Account;  S;.Sm  for buildings and works; and  $0.6m  for plant and equipment. Additional appropriations of $7.1 m are sought for payments to or for the States, the main requirements being  S2.4m  additional for drought assistance to Queensland; and S3m for flood relief in New South Wales. It is expected that there will be savings of about  S0.3m  in other similar appropriations in Appropriation Act (No. 2) 1970-71. 
As I have said, this Bill seeks additional appropriations of $32.7m. However because of savings of up to $17. 6m in expenditure under other appropriations in Appropriation Act (No. 2) 1970-71, it is expected that the total expenditure will exceed the amount appropriated in Appropriation Act (No. 2) 1970-71 by about $15.1m. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  lt is not possible to make any meaningful estimates of the interest liability on outstanding home loans. In order to make such an estimate the following information which is not available, would be required: 
the average period to final repayment of the loans outstanding to each type of lender for housing; 
the average period for which repayments have already been made on outstanding loans; in credit foncier type loans the interest component is large in the early repayment periods but diminishes considerably as the end of the repayment term nears; 
the interest rates being charged on the loans outstanding; this is not indicated by the prevailing rates on new loans since, while some lenders adjust their rates on existing loans whenever rates on new loans change, others are able to adjust rates on existing loans only infrequently if at all; 
the average rest period for the calculation of interest on outstanding balances for each type of lender for housing. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows 
The information sought by the honourable member has been supplied by the Acting Commonwealth Statistician, and is set out in the tables below. 
These tables differ in a number of respects from those given on 25 February 1969 (Hansard, page 1.39) in reply to an earlier question by the honourable member, on account of revisions to the figures themselves and a number of changes which have been made in the basis of compilation. Some of the differences are as follows: 
The figures previously supplied for Sydney related to the Sydney Statistical Division (excluding Blue Mountains) plus Greater Wollongong and Wollondilly Shire. A new tabic has been prepared relating to the Sydney Statistical Division (excluding Blue Mountains) only. However, to facilitate comparisons with earlier years an updated table on the previous basis is also supplied. 
The figures previously supplied for Melbourne related only to the area served by the Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works. A new table has been prepared relating to the Melbourne Statistical Division, which comprises a larger area, and in which the population is served by more sewerage authorities. However, a table compiled on the earlier basis is again included. The lower figures in the new table for 'estimated percentage of population served' in Melbourne are due to the inclusion of a greater proportion of non-urban areas (the dwellings in which are not connected to sewerage services) in the whole area to which the figures relate. ('Statistical divisions' of capital cities include both urban and non-urban areas.) 
Population figures given Tor Adelaide relate to the Adelaide Statistical Division and not the Adelaide Metropolitan Sewerage Area, as in the previous reply, because of difficulties in obtaining population details for the Metropolitan Area alone. This change increases the figures of 'total population in the area served' but does not affect the number of connections or population served because the added areas are entirely non-urban and not connected to sewerage services. The figures for 'estimated percentage of population served' for Adelaide are therefore slightly lower in the new table. The 1966 figure for 'estimated population served', for Adelaide has also been revised. 
The 1966 figures for 'number of tenements served' and 'estimated population served' for Hobart have been revised. 
Some of the 1961 figures included in the tables relate to areas defined for census purposes in 1961, while the corresponding 1966 figures relate to areas defined for census proposes in 1966. These two census definitions do not necessarily yield the same areas when applied at the same date, and hence the 1961 figures and the 1966 figures in these tables are not strictly comparable. As mentioned in the previous answer given on 25 February 1969, because of changes over time in the boundaries of areas, this qualification also applies to all the figures previously supplied. All population figures subsequent to 1966 are inter-censal estimates only and are therefore subject to revision. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The tables below set out the most up-to-date data available under the different headings. In some instances the figures differ slightly from those given in answer to question No. 507 because of recent revisions to the earlier figures and attempts to provide more accurate information. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Acting Commonwealth Statistician has supplied the following information in reply to the honourable member's question. 
The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
The Acting Commonwealth Statistician has supplied the following information in reply to the honourable members question. 
Details of the number of accidents which occurred each day are not available but the following table gives the days of the week on which the accidents occurred. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Under the general provisions of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936-1970, income lax is payable upon the taxable income derived during the year of income by any person or company. Iti this context, the term 'company' includes all bodies or associations corporate or unincorporate hut docs not include partnerships. In most instances, credit unions are now accepted as falling within me definition of 'co-operative company' for the purposes of Division 9 of Part III (sections 117-121) of the Assessment Act. This Division provides that the assessable income of a co-operative company shall include all income received by it from its shareholders and from other persons. In addition to ordinary business expenses incurred in deriving assessable income, deductions are allowed for rebates or bonuses distributed among shareholders on the basis of business done by the shareholders with the company and for amounts distributed to shareholders as interest or dividends on shares. The present rate of tax payable by a co-operative company is 37 per cent on the first $10,000 of taxable income and 47+ per cent on the remainder. 
The definition of "co-operative company' was extended in 1936 to include a company the primary purpose of which is 'the rendering of services lo iw shareholders'. Prior lo that time, there was no basis on which credit unions could have been treated as qualifying for the concessions available to co-operative companies. 
Assessments of credit unions and small loan societies have been referred to Taxation Hoards of Review on several occasions. In these cases it was claimed that the company concerned was a mutual' association and as such its assessable income should not include receipts from its shareholders. lt was further claimed in two cases that the particular organisations were co-operative companies and that deductions should bc allowed for dividends paid. All claims were disallowed by the Boards of Review but, in one case where an appeal to the High Court was lodged by a credit union, it was held that the company concerned was a co-operative company and conseqently entitled to a deduction for dividends paid to its shareholders. This case is reported as Revesby Credit Union Co-operative Limited v. F.C. of T. 112 C.L.R. 564. A further appeal to the High Court claiming that a credit union is a mutual association is at present awaiting hearing. 
The question of amending this area of the legislation is a matter which would not be considered before the appeal to the High Court referred to above has been determined. 
Full particulars are not available of the manner in which credit unions are treated in other countries for income tax purposes. It is understood that the position in the following countries is: 
United Kingdom - credit unions are liable to tax. 
New Zealand - credit unions are liable to tax. 
United States of America - a credit union without capital stock and operated for mutual purposes is exempt from tax. 
Canada - at present credit unions are not subject to tax but a government white paper proposing that they be taxed has been presented to the House of Commons. 
France - co-operative societies generally are taxable although there are some exceptions. 
West Germany - similar to France. 
South Africa - credit unions are not taxed. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Subject to leave being granted to withdraw the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill 1970 and the two associated Bills, it is intended to introduce a new Compensation (Commonwealth Employees') Bill and new associated Bills into this House at the earliest opportunity. 
I have not read the statement of  President  Nixon although I have seen reports of it. The Government, of course, has attitudes to foreign aid that are well known. We are among the top three countries in the world in the flow of official aid to developing countries. Not only does our money go to developing countries in a high proportion but also it goes almost entirely untied. That means that the recipient country has freedom of action to apply the money as it wishes. As to the latter part of the honourable gentleman's question about the flow of money as a proportion of gross national product, the United Nations adopted a proposal that countries should contribute 1 per cent of their GNP as total aid flow. Within total aid flow it is necessary to identify the two constituent parts. One is official aid and the other is private aid flow. 
Australia has always argued that the 1 per cent of GNP is a most inappropriate measure when both types of aid are lumped together because the motives with which they are given are different. Official aid is aid with the motive of helping the developing country. With private aid, on the other hand, the motive is profit. Private aid is not mobilised by government; it is mobilised by the individuals who possess the capital and who send it out seeking profit. It is true that it does achieve indirect aid to the developing country, but the motive is quite different. Australia never accepted this test because of the disparate nature of the two forms of flow. However, the United Nations did adopt the proposal for 1 per cent of GNP. We did not believe we were likely to achieve it because we are an importer of capital, but in 1970 private capital investment from Australia in developing countries increased quite markedly, the net result of which was that in that year Australia's total aid flow was 1.1 per cent of GNP. We are one of the very rare countries of the world- 
That is so- that part which is Australian. It included Bougainville. The honourable gentleman has intervened. If he intervenes because he opposes the concept of the United Nations lumping the two types of aid together he will not be disagreeing with me, nor I with him. I am reporting the simple fact that Australia's total aid flow was 1.1 per cent of GNP in 1970. Even though it was 1.1 per cent of GNP, which puts us in a rare position among countries of the world, I still believe it is an inappropriate test to lump together the two constituent parts of official aid and private aid flow. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to obtain Parliamentary approval for payment to the International Development Association of a. sum not exceeding the equivalent of $US48m in connection with the third replenishment of the Resources of that institution. As most honourable members will be aware, the International Development Association, or IDA as it is commonly called, is an affiliate of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which is often referred to these days as the World Bank. IDA was set up in 1960 because many less developed countries were not able, or could not afford, to borrow overseas on commercial terms. Many of these poorer countries did not have access to international capital markets because they could not establish a satisfactory credit rating. Moreover, most of them were already feeling the burden of external debt repayments and had little or no capacity to service additional overseas loans at normal rates of interest and on normal terms of repayment. IDA was established for the express purpose of providing loans on concessional terms to such countries. 
IDA loans, or development credits as they are called, bear no interest and are repayable over 50 years with a 10-year period of grace. A small service charge of i of one per cent per annum is levied to cover administrative expenses. I would emphasise that, notwithstanding these soft terms, the projects which IDA finances are subject to the same rigorous analysis and appraisal with respect to both their economic worth and their technical feasibility as the World Bank itself applies in its own lending operations. In fact the 2 institutions have a common staff and a common executive board. IDA now has more than 100 member countries which are divided into 2 broad groups. The more economically advanced countries are known as Part I members and the less-developed countries as Part II members. 
In 1960 Part I member countries, including Australia, agreed to subscribe roughly $US150m a year for 5 years to the initial capital stock of IDA. Australia's share of this total was 2.7 per cent involving us in annual contributions of a little over $US4m. In 1963 Part I member countries agreed to replenish IDA's resources over the 3 years 1965-66 to 1967-68 at the rate of roughly $US250m a year. Australia's share of this total was again 2.7 per cent, involving us in annual contributions equivalent to $US6.6m, or about two-thirds more than the rate of our subscription to IDA's initial capital stock. A second replenishment of IDA's resources, involving contributions of $US400m a year, was agreed for the 3 years 1968-69 to 1970-71, although it came into effect only in July 1969 due to a delay by the United States Congress in ratifying the relevant agreement and passing the necessary legislation to authorise that country's participation. Australia reduced ils percentage share of this second replenishment to 2 per cent, involving us in contributions of $US8m a year. 
All of these resources - which have been supplemented by interest earned on investments, some additional voluntary contributions by a few Part I countries and transfers amounting to $US485m which the World Bank has made to IDA out of its annual profits since 1963-64 - are expected to be fully committed by the end of June this year for lending to less-developed countries. The need for a third replenishment of IDA's resources is, therefore urgent if IDA is to be able to continue its lending activities. After lengthy negotiations, Part I member countries reached agreement in June 1970 that, subject to parliamentary approval in their respective countries, IDA's resources should be replenished at the rate of $US800m a year  over the 3 years commencing 1971-72. This represents a 100 per cent increase on the rate of contribution under the second replenishment exercise. Some special additional contributions will in fact raise the level of replenishment over this period to about $US813m a year. 
Agreement to replenish IDA's resources at this rate was reached only after some modifications to the percentage contributions of certain Part I countries. France and South Africa reduced their percentage shares, while Finland, Japan, The Netherlands, Norway and Sweden increased theirs. Switzerland, which is not a member of IDA, but which participated in the second replenishment exercise, has agreed to contribute to the third replenishment on the basis of an increased percentage share. In addition, three Part II member countries, namely, Ireland, Spain and Yugoslavia, will be participating for the first time in a general replenishment exercise. With the concurrence of honourable members I incorporate in Hansard a table entitled 'Contributions to IDA by Part I Members' which compares the prospective contributions to IDA by Part I member countries and Switzerland over the next 3 years with the contributions they have already made. 

<graphic href="072131197104234_33_0.jpg"></graphic>

Honourable members will observe from this table that, in this third replenishment, Australia's share will be maintained at 2 per cent. This will mean a doubling of our present rate of contribution to $US16m a year over the next 3 years. In deciding that Australia's share  of this replenishment should be maintained at 2 per cent, the Government had a number of considerations in mind. First and foremost IDA, like the World Bank, is an efficient institution. We know from practical experience that it can tackle complex development problems in a technically proficient way, country by country. It is by far the largest agency lending on concessional terms in the world today. In its first 10 years, for example, IDA extended 221 credits totalling nearly $US2.8 billion to 55 countries. In 1969-70 alone, 56 new credits totalling more than $US605m were approved. The Government is conscious of the fact that there is now something of a swing back in world opinion in favour of multilateral aid, particularly through the international development finance institutions like IDA. 
Needless to say, the developing countries, as a whole, attach great importance to a generous and early replenishment of IDA's resources. We are also mindful that IDA has been, and will continue to be, of particular benefit to the developing countries in our own part of the world. In the past, about three-quarters of all IDA lending has gone to countries in the Asian region. Last financial year, India alone received nearly $US230m from IDA, while Indonesia and Pakistan each received about $US80m. 
Finally, there is the prospect that Papua and New Guinea will benefit from this replenishment of IDA's resources. To date, Papua and New Guinea has received credits and loans totalling more than $US22m from IDA and the World Bank. Another loan of $US23m is expected to be approved shortly. Further proposals to borrow from these two institutions on the Territory's behalf are under consideration at the present time. 
During the discussions on the level of the third replenishment, agreement was also reached on a proposal to adjust the relative voting rights of individual Part I countries so as to reflect more accurately the total amounts which each such country had, or will have, contributed to IDA since its inception. By way of background, I might explain that voting rights are based on subscriptions to IDA. I would emphasise this word, 'subscriptions'. By general consensus at the time, it had previously been decided that the additional resources put at IDA's disposal under the first and second replenishment exercises should not affect voting rights and for this reason the commitments then entered into took the form of contributions, and not additional subscriptions. In response to pressures from certain countries, which felt they were disadvantaged by this arrangement - that is, those which had increased their percentage shares, or made supplementary voluntary contributions to IDA, since it was first established - it has now been decided to redress this situation. This will be done by permitting Part I countries to make additional subscriptions, which will carry voting rights, to IDA as well as contributions under the third replenishment exercise, the relative proportions between the two varying in each instance so as to produce the overall voting adjustments desired. 
As a consequence of the fact that Australia reduced its percentage share under the second replenishment exercise to 2 per cent, and now proposes to maintain that figure, our relative voting strength is to be reduced slightly. Complex calculations undertaken by the staff of the Association indicated that, of the total amount of $US48m which Australia is expected to make available to IDA over the next 3 years, $US583,440 should take the form of an additional subscription with voting rights. The balance will take the form of an additional contribution as in the case of the two previous replenishment exercises. This distinction is provided for in the Bill. 
The agreement governing the third replenishment exercise is subject to the explicit condition that it must be ratified by at least 12 Part I member countries whose prospective subscriptions and contributions aggregate not less than $US1.9 billion. Because of the size of the pledge to be made by the United States, this means that the agreement cannot enter into effect unless and until it is ratified by that country. It is hoped that all of the formalities to this end will be completed by 30th June 1971 so that IDA will have appropriate authority to enter into new lending commitments from  the  start  of the next  financial year. 
I ' should also like to explain  to  the House that our annual contributions  to  IDA are paid in the form of promissory notes which are cashed as and when funds are required by IDA. Actual cash payments reflect the pattern of disbursements by IDA and these usually lag well behind the commitments entered into when projects are approved. For example, cumulative cash payments to IDA by Australia as al the end of the current financial year are expected to amount to about $A36m, compared with total pledges of more than $A57m by Australia since IDA's inception in 1960. I have a detailed break-up of these figures before me and, as they may be of some interest to honourable members, with the concurrence of the House I incorporate them in Hansard. 
CONTRIBUTIONS AND PAYMENTS TO IDA BY AUSTRALIA 
Accumu- 
Contributiun Payments Lated  - 1---  balance 
Cumu- Cumu- out- 
Year Annual lative Annual lative standing $'000 $'000 5*000 S'000  rooo 
INITIAL CAPITAL SUBSCRIPTIONS (tUS20.18m) 
1960- 61 3,604 3,604 900 900 2,704 
1961- 62 3,604 7,208 226 1,126 6,082 
1962- 63 3,604 10,812 2,692 3,818 6,994 
1963- 64 3,604 14,416 2,726 6,344 7,872 
1964- 63 3,604 18,020 2,346 9,090 8,930 
FIRST REPLENISHMENT ($US19.8m) 
1965- 66 3,893 23,913 5,684 14,774 9,139 
1966- 67 5,893 29,806 6,005 20,779 9,027 
1967- 68 5,893 35,699 7,134 27,913 7,786 
SECOND REPLENISHMENT (SUS24m) 
1968- 69 7,143 42,842 2,020 29,933 12,909 
1969- 70 7,143 49,985 2,820 32,753 17,232 
1970- 71 7,143 (a)57,128 0&gt;)3,OOO (b)35,753 (b)21,373 
Total should be $57,1 26,000. Minor discrepancy due to rounding. (b) Estimate only. 
The significance of this point is that while Australia will be called upon to pay the first instalment of $ US 16m on its contribution to the third replenishment exercise in November next, the impact upon the Budget for 1971-72 of actual payments to IDA will be very much less than that. 
This Bill provides us with an opportunity to. demonstrate once again our support for IDA as an effective and efficient development finance institution, and our willingness to help, through IDA, the less developed countries to achieve faster rates of economic growth and thereby improve their standards of living in future.  I  need not emphasise the importance to be attached to this broad objective.  I  commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned.' 
I  move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. This Bill seeks the approval of Parliament to borrowings by the Commonwealth of $US29.58m ($A26.4m) from the ExportImport Bank pf the United States and the Boeing company, and $US30m ($A26.8m) from a syndicate of United States commercial banks led by the Chase Manhattan Bank of New York to assist in financing the purchase of jet aircraft and related equipment by Qantas Airways Ltd. The loan agreement with the Export-Import Bank and Boeing appears as the First Schedule to the Bill and the Second Schedule contains the agreement with the commercial banks. The Export-Import Bank Agreement has been signed by all the parties but some of the banks have yet formally to sign the other agreement. However, it is expected that this process will be completed shortly. 
The proceeds of the loans will complete the finance for the purchase by Qantas of its first 4 Boeing 747 aircraft and related equipment, spares and services estimated to cost in all SUS140m ($A125m). Because of the cost of these aircraft and the fact that a large proportion of the contract price was not due to be paid until this year, the borrowings of approximately $US113m ($A101m) required by Qantas for the purchase were arranged in two tranches. As honourable members will recall, in 1968 a borrowing of $US53m from the ExportImport Bank, Boeing and a syndicate of United States commercial banks, led on that occasion by Morgan Guaranty Trust Co. of New York, was arranged to finance pre-delivery payments on the aircraft and was. approved, by Parliament The present loans will complete the finance required by Qantas. The; general arrangements for the borrowings are similar to those approved by Parliament- for other loans for Qantas and Trans- Australia Airlines in recent years. The Commonwealth will he the borrower in the first instance, and the full proceeds of the loans will be made available to Qantas on terms and conditions to be determined by the Treasurer pursuant to clause 6 of the Bill. These terms and conditions will be the same as those under which the Commonwealth itself borrows the money. As the airline will be required to meet all charges under the loan agreement, the Commonwealth will, as usual, assume the function of an intermediary in these arrangements. 
Drawings on the present loans will commence in August, when the first aircraft is due for delivery. In accordance with normal lending practice in the United States, a commitment fee of. one-half of one per cent per annum is to be paid on the undrawn amounts of both loans. The Export-Import Bank loan is to be repaid in 7 semi-annual instalments beginning 15th November 1975. The Commercial Bank loan is repayable in 10 semi-annual instalments beginning 30th June 1972. Interest on the Export-Import Bank loan will be at 6 per cent. However, the lenders in this case have the right to sell the Commonwealth's obligations, in respect of amounts advanced, at prices involving additional interest costs to the Commonwealth of up to a maximum rate of 7 per cent. The Commercial Bank loan bears interest at a rate which is three-quarters of one per cent above the minimum commercial lending rate charged by Chase Manhattan Bank - at present 5.25 per cent - and will fluctuate with that rate. The terms and conditions of the loans have been approved by the Australian Loan Council, and I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
No, it does not. [here has been no change in the broad spectrum of interest rates, and I would expect people to understand from that that it doe not herald any change at all. It is a purely technical matter which can be described quite quickly. Last August the yield was increased in order to encourage or induce the flow from the private sector into treasury notes to reinforce our monetary policies We discovered that the rate of flow was higher than it need have been. Then a debt management issue arose because not only was money flowing out of the private sector, but it was also attracting money away from bonds, and that became the debt management issue. For that reason, it was Treasury's advice that the yield should be reduced. 
It is interesting to note that at the time I was confronted with the problem of whether the reduction in yield on treasury notes should be announced in the sheer technical sense, for that is what it was, or whether it might be misinterpreted and therefore whether I ought to make a statement saying that it was not what it might have been thought to be. Because it was technical I chose the first course, that is, to have it revealed in a technical way, but unfortunately I must have made the wrong judgment because it has been misinterpreted. But it was solely a technical matter. It has no effect on the general spectrum of interest rates and it ought not to be seen as other than what in fact it was. 
1 am hopeful that the legislation will proceed this session. I am unable to say categorically that it will because there are 2 matters to which I am giving close attention at the moment. One of them is a matter of very great difficulty because of the complications arising in working out what benefits should be portable. It is necessary to make sure that the individual who gets the benefit of portability is not disadvantaged and, equally, that he is not advantaged in relation to those who remain in the scheme. This is something which requires very complicated legislative provision and advice from the actuaries. I am hoping that it can be resolved. I would like to see the legislation passed this session if it can be, but I would not be prepared to have it go through this session if the matter were not resolved properly. As to the other matter to which the honourable gentleman referred, I have had representations from a wide area including, as the honourable gentleman said, the honourable member for Boothby. At present I am considering the matter. I will not comment beyond that. 
 I do know of the case but I have not yet had the opportunity to make a close examination of the judgments of all the judges. Legislation was introduced into this House a few years ago following upon the inquiry of the Ligertwood Committee into tax avoidance by the use of interlocking companies and very peculiar shapes of different proprietary companies set up for the purpose of avoiding tax. This legislation was designed to prevent such avoidance. Unfortunately - and I say that quite purposefully - it now appears that this legislation did not cover the situation as well as we had assumed at the time it would. I therefore have the matter under very urgent consideration to see whether or not it is necessary to have the legislation amended in order to achieve the legislative result which was intended. Unfortunately, with the state of the session as it is, there may be great difficulty in introducing legislation this session if the Government decides to do so. However, I will bring the matter to the attention of the Government and will then consider what action should be taken, perhaps in the form of a statement or something of that kind, if the decision is to pursue this to legislation. The honourable gentleman mentioned the tax base. Of course, it is very important to maintain that tax base. That was the purpose of the legislation. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to appropriate moneys to carry on the necessary normal services of the Government during the first 5 months of the financial year 1971-72. The total amount sought in this Bill is $1,21 9,758,000 comprising departmental, $706,396,000; defence services $488,362,000; and advance to the Treasurer, $25m. These amounts do not, of course, include the requirements for expenditure under special appropriations for which standing parliamentary authority is available under the relevant legislation. 
The amounts included for salaries and payments in the nature of salary represent Treasury estimates of the payments which will be made on the 11 pay days falling within the supply period. These are,of course, subject to the staff ceilingsimposed by the Public Service Board following the Government's call for restraint, last February, in the rate of growth in Public Service employment. The amounts included for administrative expenses are five-twelfths of the 1970-71 appropriations. Amounts included for other services are limited to commitments which departments will be required to meet in the supply period. No provision is made for new services. An amount of $25m is sought to enable the Treasurer to make advances which will be recovered within the financial year and to make moneys available to meet expenditure on services of the Government, particulars of which will afterwards be submitted to Parliament. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to appropriate $313,554,000 for certain expenditures to carry on the necessary services of the Government for the first 5 months of 1971-72. The total amount sought comprises: 

<graphic href="072131197104271_36_0.jpg"></graphic>

The amounts for capital works and services are to meet commitments for approved programmes only. It is estimated that $33. 5m will be required during the Supply period for advances by way of loan to the Australian Wool Commission. Advances during the current financial year are being provided by the Commonwealth under a special appropriation provided in section 31 of the Australian Wool Commission Act 1970 and by trading banks. The provision in this Bill is estimated  10  be sufficient to meet the Commission's working capital requirements in respect of commitments entered into during the 1970-71 wool selling season and not requiring payment until after 30th June 1971, and finance in respect of possible operations during the first few months of the 1971-72 wool selling season. 
Provision has also been made for further advances up to $5m to the Papua and New Guinea Administration for construction of the township at Arawa in connection with the Bougainville copper project. Amounts included for 'payments to or for the States' are based on existing arrangements for approved payments from annual appropriations. Generally, they do not exceed fivetwelfths of the 1970-71 appropriations but where the arrangement is for quarterly or half-yearly payments provision has been made accordingly. Other payments to or for the States will be made from special appropriations and the Loan Fund. An amount of $25m is sought to enable the Treasurer to make other advances which will be recovered within the financial year and to make moneys available to meet expenditure on services of the Government, particulars of which will, afterwards, be submitted to Parliament. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr  Crean) adjourned. 
Sitting suspended  from 6.3 to 8  p.m. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. It is not open to any Minister to give a direction or authorisation as to the manner in which the income tax liabilities of individual taxpayers, or groups of taxpayers, should be assessed. The responsibility for the administration of the income tax law rests' with the Commissioner of Taxation. 
and (3) Representations on behalf of various interests in the broiler industry concerning the status for income tax purposes of contract broiler growers have been made by the Minister for Primary Industry. Briefly, the question whether these growers are carrying on a business of primary production for income tax purposes turns on whether they are engaged in production resulting directly from the maintenance of animals or poultry for the purpose of selling them or their bodily produce, including natural increase'. However, the Commissioner of Taxation is unable to concede that broiler growers who receive a fee for their services, but do not own the bins under their care or bear such costs as food or the technical services necessary for maximum results, can be regarded as maintaining poultry for the purpose of selling them or their bodily produce. It is also the Commissioner's view that the activities of these broiler browers do not amount to an agricultural or pastoral pursuit in terms of the provisions which give special depreciation deductions on some structural improvements and plant used in those pursuits. 
As previously indicated, it is not open to me to review decisions of the Commissioner of Taxation concerning the interpretation of the income tax law. However, any taxpayer who is dissatisfied with his assessment may exercise his right of objecting to the assessment and, if necessary, of having the Commissioner's decision on the objection reviewed by an independent tribunal or court. In this regard, the Commissioner has stated that an appeal has already been lodged against his decision and the case will be referred to a Board of Review. 
The Government has asked the Commissioner of Taxation and his officers to undertake an examination of the taxation Act and its structure, and the honourable gentleman will remember that in the last Budget one of the products of that examination was the relief granted to the middle and lower income tax groups. My recollection is that at the time of the Budget Speech last year my predecessor said that the examination would continue. In fact, it is continuing. It can take account of all the matters which the honourable gentleman mentioned in his question. I will bring to the attention of the Commissioner of Taxation the honourable member's question concerning the machinery and administrative facility although I know that the Commissioner has been very concerned about achieving just that very result. 
I did not expect to hear a little Australian attitude coming from the honourable gentleman. I do not accept as fact the figures upon which he relies. I do not know where the prognostication which he quotes comes from. I will have my officers search all the published documents to see whether I can identify who has said this. Perhaps the honourable gentleman will help me by saying who said it so that the matter can be argued sensibly, not on the basis on which he puts it. 
It is necessary to make this point very clearly and, I hope, adequately: Australia presents to the world enormous opportunities for development It presents to Australians the promise of increased living standards, as we develop our country. Our country has been able to mobilise an immense amount of capital for development in Australia, but at this stage it is not able to mobilise the totality of the capital needed. It is the attitude of the Government mat we welcome the inflow of capital into Australia so that our country can be developed. We have benefited very greatly by the attraction that Australia represents to overseas countries wishing to find in Australia a partnership in development. 
My colleagues, the  Deputy  Prime Minister and the Minister for Primary Industry, have written to me already about this matter. I replied to them in terms that were contained in the answer to the question on notice which appears in Hansard dated 27th April 1971. I was not aware that the board of review had reached a decision. As the honourable gentleman has informed me of that fact, I will ask that an examination be made of the matter and I will have discussions with my colleagues. 
I  do not know the figures.  I  do not carry them in my mind.  I  will inquire about them and let the honourable member know. 
 I move: 
That  the  Bill be  now  read  a second  time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the provisions of the income tax law relating to interest withholding tax so as  to  give effect to decisions announced by the former Prime Minister on 13th December last. Two other taxation Bills to be introduced immediately - the Income Tax (Bearer Debentures) Bill 1971 and the Income Tax (Withholding Tax Recoupment) Bill 1971  -  are complementary. 
The interest withholding tax is a tax levied at the rate of 10 per cent, on interest received by overseas lenders from Australian borrowers. The borrower is obliged to withhold 10 per cent of the interest and pay it to the Commissioner of Taxation. It is a form of tax commonly used by many countries to tax certain classes of income having a source within their* territory. When the interest withholding tax in its current form was introduced as from the beginning of 1968, it was expected that in most cases, particularly where there were arrangements between Australia and the other country concerned for relief of double taxation, the overseas lender would be able to obtain a taxation credit in his own country for interest withholding tax deducted in Australia. If so, k was to be expected that the burden of the Australian interest withholding tax would not generally fall on the Australian borrower - in other words, that the rate of interest payable by the Australian borrower would not include the cost of interest withholding tax. 
However, a review of the effect of the interest withholding tax on Australian borrowers has caused the Government to believe that' the rax frequently falls not on the overseas lender' but on the Australian borrower. This is because the lender adds to the rate of interest he charges a compensation for the interest tax withheld. The Government has made clear the importance it attaches to flows of capital from abroad for the development of our resources and of the economy generally. It has also made clear that it wishes to see as much Australian equity and managerial participation as possible in developmental and industrial enterprises in this country. In so far as the burden of the interest withholding tax on overseas borrowings is passed on, in whole or in part, to the borrower in Australia, it is thought that its effect could be detrimental to the achievement of these objectives. As a result of the review to which I have referred, it is proposed under this bill to exempt interest on two broad categories of overseas borrowings from interest withholding tax. The first broad category is bearer securities issued overseas to the public or on an otherwise widely spread basis. The second broad category relates to what might be termed overseas borrowings to support whole or partial Australian ownership of ventures in this country. 
Where borrowings are made overseas by means of widely spread bearer securities, the Government is satisfied that the cost of interest withholding tax must be met by the Australian borrower irrespective of whether or not the borrowing company is predominantly overseas owned or Australian owned. This is so because, for technical reasons, it is not practicable for overseas tax credits to apply at all under the instituitonal arrangements that have in practice to be adopted for payment of the interest. These arrangements provide for interest on the securities to be paid over the counter by banks in overseas financial centres when the holder of the security presents his interest coupon, and the bank is reimbursed by the borrower or his agent. It has been found impossible for our withholding tax to be collected from the real lenders in these circumstances. I mention in this connection that, as a general measure against tax evasion, the present law - by section 126 of the Income Tax Assessment Act - imposes a special rate of tax of approximately 42 per cent on interest paid on bearer securities where the borrower does not supply to the Commissioner of Taxation the names and addresses of holders to whom the interest is paid. 
The provisions of section 126 apply to overseas issues of bearer securities. Despite these provisions, however, borrowers resident in Australia which wish, and are able, to have access to overseas capital markets through the issue of bearer securities can still make such borrowings by setting up an overseas borrowing subsidiary in a country which does not impose tax on interest on bearer securities. Australian interest withholding tax at the rate of 10 per cent is then paid on interest on the borrowing by the Australian company from its overseas subsidiary. That is a technical solution which enables the Australian borrower to meet both our requirements and those of the overseas capital market. But there can be no crediting of our withholding tax against tax levied by the real lender's country of residence, and so the tax would usually operate to increase the effective rate of interest payable by the Australian borrower. It is accordingly proposed that interest on bearer debentures that satisfy tests set out in the Bill will be exempt from withholding tax and section 126 tax. Broadly speaking, the exemption will be available for interest paid by Australian-resident companies on overseas borrowings made by them through widely spread bearer debentures for use in, or in connection with, a business carried on in Australia by a resident of Australia. It will be immaterial for this purpose whether or not the borrower or user is Australian owned. The intention is to eliminate scope for companies which are resident overseas to channel their overseas borrowings via Australian based companies in such a way as to use Australia as a tax haven. 
 A requirement for exemption is that the debentures be issued outside Australia for the purposes of raising a loan outside Australia in a foreign currency, the interest on which is paid outside Australia in a foreign currency. One objective in defining overseas borrowing in this way is to minimise the risk of evasion of tax by residents of Australia. Precautions of this kind have to be stronger with bearer securities than with registered securities. It will also be a prerequisite for exemption that the Commissioner give a certificate that, having regard to the circumstances surrounding the issue - statutory guidelines for the Commissioner are provided in the Bill for this purpose - it is reasonable to regard the debentures as having been issued with a view to public subscription or purchase, or other wide distribution among investors. The purpose of this, of course, is to prevent borrowings from simply being dressed up as exempt bearer debenture issues so as to take advantage of the exemption. Earlier I referred tq the issue of bearer securities or debentures via an overseas subsidiary of the Australian borrower. It has been represented to us that some Australian borrowers will find it expedient to continue to borrow in this way because of the preferences of overseas lenders. We see no reason to prevent them from doing so, and accordingly the exemption in respect of bearer debentures will apply, not only where debentures are issued directly by the Australian borrower, but also where debentures are issued through an overseas sub sidiary which is wholly owned and controlled by an Australian-resident parent and its only business is to borrow for onlending, at cost to the parent company for use in, or in connection ' with, an Australian business. 
Unless there is exemption under the plan for borrowings to support- Australian ownership, .which I describe- shortly, bearer debenture- interest that does not qualify for the exemption will, as previously, be subject tq section 126 tax if the identity of the holders is not disclosed. . However, the rate of tax under section 126 will bs reduced to 10 per cent for non-exempt interest on completely foreign issues by residents of Australia, that is, issues in a foreign currency, on which interest is payable in a foreign currency by a resident qf Australia. In other cases,, the rate of tax will be the same .as that, now imposed. A separate Bill, the. Income Tax (Bearer Debentures) Bill 1971,., will- declare the rates of tax under section 126. 1 come now to the second, and in many respects ' the more important, broad cafegory of overseas borrowings on which under the Bill interest will be exempt from interest withholding tax- - namely, borrowings to support whole or partial Australian ownership of ventures . in this country. Except in the case of widely-spread bearer securities, there is no absolute barrier to prevent the overseas lender from obtaining in his country the benefit -of tax credits in respect: of interest withholding tax deducted in Australia. However, we have been advised that difficulties frequently arise and that the cost of our interest withholding tax may have to be met by the Australian borrower in the form of an increase in the rate of interest on the loan. Sometimes all that is involved is that the borrower is asked to put the lender in funds temporarily until the latter's tax credit is received, in which event there is no permanent cost to the borrower. We have been advised that in other cases there could be a permanent cost to him because the lender cannot obtain a full credit, or perhaps for other reasons. Where this is so, the Government, believes that these problems and costs must affect Australianowned companies to an extent that need not, and generally does not, apply to overseas companies which can have access to loan funds from abroad through overseas parent or associated companies. Accordingly, the Bill provides for exemption from interest withholding tax, in defined circumstances, of interest on overseas borrowings by Australian-owned borrowers! The purpose is to ensure that the law does no! operate to discriminate against Australian owned enterprises, relative to overseasowned enterprises, in the matter of the effective cost of interest on overseas borrowings. 
For this exemption to be available, test; as to the extent of Australian ownership and control ' must be satisfied both by the borrower and the enterprise in which the borrowed moneys are used. In the terms used in the ' Bill, the exemption will bc available only if the borrower is an 'Australian entity' and the borrowed funds are used in an enterprise owned by an 'Australian entity' or an enterprise in which there is 'substantial Australian participation'. The Bill specifies that individuals ordinarily resident in Australia, the Commonwealth, a State and authorities of the Commonwealth or a State are Australian entities for the purpose. In the  case  of companies, in broad terms a company will be treated as an Australian entity if, in addition to its being a resident of Australia, at least 60 per cent of the ownership and control . is vested in Australian entities (including shareholder companies that are themselves Australian entities) and no one person who is not an Australian entity has rights to more than 20 per cent of the ownership or control. Other types of business organisation, such as partnerships and joint ventures, may qualify as Australian entities on satisfying tests as to Australian ownership and control adapted from those applicable to companies. 
An enterprise will be deemed to be one in which there is substantial Australian participation if the extent and concentration of participation by Australian entities are such as to represent an effective Australian influence in the carrying on of the enterprise. An enterprise owned by a company will be a enterprise with substantial Australian participation if rights to at least 20 per cent of the ownership and control of the company are held by one Australian entity. Alternatively an enterprise may qualify if at least 30 per cent of the ownership and control of the company is held by not more than 5 Australian enti ties, or at least 40 per cent is held by any number of Australian entities. Enterprises owned by bodies other than companies may qualify on satisfying tests as to the extent of Australian ownership and control adapted from those applying for companies. Interest on loans raised abroad by such enterprises will be exempted from tax if, on an application to him by the borrower, the Commissioner of Taxation certifies that he is satisfied that the borrower is an Australian entity and the loan moneys are for use in an enterprise owned by an  Australian  entity or an enterprise in which there is substantial  Australian  participation. If, in the latter case, the money is provided as  a  loan to the enterprise, the loan must not be excessive in amount when related to the extent of the Australian participation in the enterprise. 
Other ancillary tests, dealing with matters such as rights over the appointment of directors, redeemable shares and options to acquire shares and artificial arrangements designed to obtain exemption that otherwise would not have been available, are also proposed as safeguards against devices to circumvent the main tests I have described. Where circumstances so change during the currency of a loan that the tests for exemption are not met, the interest will remain exempt from withholding tax but the borrower will be liable to pay a special tax - in effect, a substituted withholding tax - on the interest attributable to the period during which the tests are not met This tax will be imposed at the rate of 10 per cent by the Income Tax (Withholding Tax Recoupment) Bill 1971. That Bill also provides for the imposition of additional tax, at the rate of 10 per cent per annum on the amount of the special tax, equivalent to the additional tax for late payment of withholding tax that would have been payable if the interest had not been exempted from that tax. 
I turn now to administrative procedures governing the operation of the exemption in its application to both of the broad categories of overseas borrowings I have described. If a particular borrowing meets the precise tests set out in the Bill and the Commissioner of Taxation is satisfied that the case falls within the terms and spirit of other provisions of the Bill including the extensive guidelines contained in it, he will give to the borrower a certificate that he is so satisfied. On the giving of this certificate interest on that borrowing will, while it continues to satisfy the precise tests, be exempt from withholding tax and, in the case of interest on bearer debentures, from tax under section 126 of the Income Tax Assessment Act. Interest exempted from withholding tax will also be exempted from ordinary income tax levied by assessment. A certificate of exemption will be given by the Commissioner upon the borrower demonstrating how the money borrowed will, in the end, be used. Such certificates will be given only after the overseas loan has been raised and all the relevant facts have been made known to the Commissioner. However, the Commissioner will follow his usual administrative practice in cases of this kind of indicating beforehand to prospective borrowers who place all the facts before him whether, on those facts, he can be expected to give a certificate once the loan is raised. 
 Should the Commissioner conclude that a certificate of exemption should not be given he will be obliged to notify the borrower accordingly. The law will treat this notice as if it were a notice of an income tax assessment, with the consequence that the borrower will have usual rights of objection and appeal against the Commissioner's refusal to give a certificate. A taxation board of review will accordingly have the power to grant a certificate of exemption should it conclude that the particular loan falls within the policy evinced by the legislation. The new exemptions from interest withholding tax provided for in the Bill will be effective in relation to loans the contracts for which are entered into on or after the date of Royal Assent. It will be immaterial that negotiations for a loan concluded on or after the date were begun before then, or that the loan is in substitution for an earlier loan. In the statement made by the former Prime Minister on 13th December it was foreshadowed that the amendments would be effective as from 1st July 1971. It has been found, however, that no purpose would be served by deferring operation of the new provisions beyond the date of Royal Assent. 
Before concluding I should explain the significance of clause 9 of the Bill, which has a different purpose from those I have described. On the face of things it may appear that the clause will operate to withdraw an exemption from withholding tax that is provided by the existing law in respect of interest credited by overseas branches of Australian banks to accounts kept with the branches by foreign customers. However, this is not the case. I should explain that this category of interest - broadly interest on savings bank or fixed deposit accounts kept by non-residents with overseas branches of Australian banks in the ordinary course of their business - has been and will continue to be exempt from withholding tax under a general provision in section 128b (2.). The latter provision frees from the tax interest paid to a nonresident where it is incurred by a resident in carrying on business through an overseas branch. The specific exempting provision that is to be omitted by clause 9 is, in fact, redundant. While its inclusion in the original interest withholding tax legislation was considered desirable to make it doubly clear that the interest concerned would not bear withholding tax, its' withdrawal is now considered necessary since a view has been expressed that it could operate to provide a general exemption for ordinary borrowings by Australian banks on behalf of companies in Australia. Such borrowings which meet the tests for the exemptions proposed in the Bill will, of course, be free of withholding tax but it isnot, and never has been, intended that all such borrowings should automatically qualify for exemption under the provision now proposed to be omitted. The amendment to be made by clause 9 will be effective as from tomorrow. 
I have arranged for a memorandum giving comprehensive explanations of the technical provisions of the 3 Bills to be circulated to honourable members before they are debated. The Government believes that the legislation will assist generally in the attraction of overseas investment to Australia, and on a basis under which Australian entities will not be at a disadvantage relative to overseas-owned enterprises in regard to the effective cost of overseas loan capital. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
 I move:  - That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill should be read in conjunction with the Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 2) 1971. Speaking broadly, its purpose is to impose a special tax of 10 per cent in cases where a borrowing initially meets the tests for exemption under the earlier Bill for borrowings to support Australian ownership or participation, but which subse: quently fails to satisfy those tests. The effect is to impose a tax in substitution for the withholding tax that, but for the exemptions proposed in the main Bill, would have been payable. 
Since the special tax will be paid somewhat later than the withholding tax which it replaces, the BiB also provides for the imposition of further tax, by way' of additional tax for late payment, at the rate of 10 per cent per annum based on the amount of special tax. This additional tax is to be calculated from the date on which the withholding tax would have been payable to the date on which the special tax is notified and, as i? usual with late payment penalties statutorily imposed, may be remitted wholly or in part if the circumstances so warrant. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. . , .. 
 I move: 
That (he Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is also complementary to the Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 2) 1971 which I have just introduced. In broad terms, it imposes tax on interest paid by a company on bearer debentures where the names and addresses of the holders of the debentures are not provided to the Com missioner of Taxation by the company concerned. Under the present law, such interest is liable to tax at a rate of approximately 42 per cent. This rate will be continued - if the bearer debenture interest does not qualify for complete exemption - except where the interest is paid on wholly foreign issues made by residents of Australia. In these cases the rate of tax will be the same as the withholding tax rate, that is, 10 per cent. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
by leave - I rise to inform honourable members that the Government is examining the implications of the recent decision of the High Court in the income tax case Commissioner of Taxation v. Casuarina Pty Ltd, which has received wide publicity. The decision has disclosed a gap in the income tax legislation enacted in 1964, following recommendations of the Commonwealth Committee on Taxation 1959-1961- the Ligertwood Committee - to provide a statutory definition of a public company. The effectiveness of the income tax law as it applies to companies and their shareholders substantially depends on this definition. 
The High Court decision shows that companies which are in every real sense private companies, and were intended by the amendments made in 1964 to be taxed as such, are able to acquire the status of subsidiaries of public companies, and to be treated, in respect of dividends paid to them by other private companies, as public companies. Reference to the facts of the decided case as found by the Court will show that this result is brought about by highly artificial arrangements which do nothing to change the essentially private character of the companies receiving the dividends. 
The gap disclosed by the decision substantially negates the intentions of the Parliament in 1964 in giving effect to recommendations of the Ligertwood Committee designed to counter legal tax avoidance by private companies and their shareholders. The tax revenue at stake is substantial but also at stake is the principle of equitable application of the income tax law. 
The Government takes a serious view of the situation and is considering the amendments to the income tax law it should propose to the Parliament in order to close up the particular loophole. The objective will be to prevent companies which are really private in nature being able, by means of artificial arrangements intended to have effect only for taxation purposes, to take on the guise of public companies. It is proposed that the appropriate amendments should apply for the 1971-72 income year and subsequent income years. They will also apply in respect of the 1970-71 income year except where the artificial arrangements had been fully constituted on or before 28th April 1971. I present the following paper: 
Taxation case- Ministerial Statement, 28th April 1971. 
Motion (by  Mr Swartz)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
I must apologise that I did not hear every word of the question but I understood it to be primarily designed to ask me whether the Government would consider allowing deductions in relation to expenses on transport to and from work. Is that right? 
The first part of the question related to the amount of revenue which is raised by taxation from the great bulk of taxpayers who are in what the honourable member describes as the lower income groups compared with the amount of revenue raised from higher income groups. It is a fact that a great deal of the revenue from tax raisings does come from those people who are earning about the average income. I do not know that this could ever be changed because, as it is the average wage that indicates the level at which the majority of workers are earning. I do not see any way in which this can be changed. If the implication is that there should be higher tax rates for the higher income earners, I do not think I can agree with the honourable member. The fact is that if the rate of income tax is pitched at such a high level that the rewards of earning more are reduced then incentive to earn is consequently reduced, and what we need greatly in this country is entrepreneurial skill, management skill and a willingness of people to undertake responsibility. I think this is in the interests of the country. The specific matter of allowing transport costs as a deduction has been considered on many occasions. I can give the honourable gentleman an assurance that when the Budget is being considered this matter will be examined. 
The Commonwealth's attitude has always been that the assistance to persons affected by natural disaster is - primarily a matter for the State governments. However, the Commonwealth has accepted that there will be occasions when the expenses of natural disasters are beyond the means of the States and that therefore the Commonwealth should assist in the relief of expenditures and the reconstructions that are necessary following a natural disaster. One of the difficulties the Commonwealth has encountered is the fact that it is not possible to know, when one natural disaster strikes a State, whether other natural disasters will follow. Equally, it cannot be assessed accurately in advance how much it will cost to meet the natural disaster expenditures, and therefore it has been very difficult to assess whether or not relief from natural disaster is within the means of the States. Therefore the Commonwealth has adopted recently a policy whereby it says that the States should discharge their responsibility initially up to a minimum amount of money. In the case of New South Wales the figure was $5m. 
New South Wales bad the misfortune to experience a natura] disaster, if that is the proper term for it, in the form of a mouse plague, on which it expended Sim. Then there were the drought difficulties. The Commonwealth's attitude was that the State of New South Wales should expend $5m - $lm on the mouse plague and $4m on drought relief - -and that the Commonwealth would then be responsible beyond $5m. After the mouse plague and the drought, as the honourable gentleman will know, there were bad floods. Perhaps this is the basis of the honourable member's question. However, as I have said, beyond the payment of $5m by the State the Commonwealth will meet the cost. 
In addition, of course, the Common, wealth is providing relief for personal hardship on a $1 for $1 basis with the States and $100,000 has been expended for this purpose. The administration of the scheme is the responsibility of the States. The honourable gentleman, I think, asked how much had been expended at present by the Commonwealth. The answer is that no claims have yet been made to this point of time pursuant to that policy, although I expect that claims will be made before 30th June. The explanation for this is that it has not yet been possible for the costs to be properly assessed. Nevertheless, I expect there will be claims before 30th June. 
The review I mentioned yesterday will cover all matters. It can cover matters of the kind mentioned by the honourable gentleman. I think it is necessary in answering the question to draw the distinction that the honourable gentleman suggests that deductions be withdrawn for reasons which, are his own - and I do not think this relates really to taking away benefits. However, on the other hand I have received representations to the effect that the size of deductions should be increased for different reasons. Income tax deductions will be considered in the Budget context. In a consideration of these deductions in. the Budget context it will, of course, be necessary to consider the very greatly increased expenditures of the Commonwealth in these areas. Health and education are 2 areas where Commonwealth expenditures over recent years have literally leapt forward and now constitute a very significant portion of Commonwealth budgetary expenditures. 
I am not awarealthough I accept it for the purposes of the question - that the Sydney Water Board has increased its rates by 9 per cent. I accept it for the purpose of dealing with the matters raised by the honourable gentleman in his question. Firstly, it is abundantly clear to everybody who is willing to put his mind to the facts that when wage increases rise beyond productivity it must mean increases in costs, and that when instrumentalities which provide services such as those which the Sydney Water Board provides encounter increased costs, it is inevitable that their charges will rise. This is what is happening throughout the broad economy, whether it be in the private enterprise field or in government instrumentalities. The essential point for this country to accept is that wage increases beyond producitivity are only inflationary, and are illusionary wage increases and not real money increases. 
As to the second point - that the cause of the increases in rates was the high interest structure which has been brought about by this Government's policy - let me remind the honourable gentleman that the inflationary pressures which the Government encountered had to be met by either monetary measures or fiscal measures. Monetary measures were adopted in April 1970. Those monetary measures have been very effective in holding back an increasing inflationary pressure. The increased interest charges were part of that monetary policy. The Government believes that the monetary policy is right and it will adhere to that policy, because it believes that in the interest of the Australian people it had to resist the inflationary pressures. While the Government can take the action that it has taken, I impress upon the honourable gentleman and all members on the other side of the House that they should do what they can and use their influence, if they possess any, on the trade unions of this country to moderate their claims and to understand the reality that wage increases beyond productivity are inflationary and illusionary. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
At the time the 1970-71 Budget was introduced it was noted that, because of the difficulty of estimating net loan raisings in Australia and overseas, there remained, as in every year, the possibility that some borrowing from the Reserve Bank may be necessary to complete the Commonwealth's financial transactions. In statement No. 4 attached to the Budget Speech, notice was given that authority would be sought in a Loan Bill to borrow for defence purposes such amounts as are necessary to complete the Commonwealth's financing requirements. Since the Budget was introduced, of course, a number of factors have brought about substantial increases in Budget expenditures and much lesser increases in revenues, so that our financing requirements are now greater than originally forecast. 
Some of the more important increases in expenditures which have occurred since the Budget were outlined in this House on 16th February by the then Prime Minister in his statement on Government expenditure. It is however, useful to refer to some of them here. The largest variations affecting the expenditure estimates have been additional payments to the States, including $60m to compensate the States for loss of receipts duty revenues, $43m in additional assistance to the States to help with their budgetary difficulties, and about $25m in increased financial assistance grants arising from the effect on the formula determined grants of the higher than anticipated increase in average wages. In all, payments to or for the States are now expected to exceed the Budget estimates by the order of $132m. 
Wage and salary determinations, including the effect of the national wage case decision, have also added directly to the Commonwealth's own wage and salary bill. Other additional requirements, such as capital advances to the Australian Wool Commission and payments under the rural debt reconstruction and farm adjustment scheme will also operate to increase our expenditures. Despite the cut-back in expenditures announced by the Government in February and the gain to revenue as a result of the faster increases in incomes and spending, the Government is now faced with a large prospective deficit for this financial year. 
On the financing side, the results of our loan raising activities in the first 9 months of the year suggest that redemptions and other expenditure on the reduction of debt overseas will exceed raisings overseas, as they did in the previous financial year, so that significant amounts will remain to be raised in Australia. Public loan raisings in Australia so far this financial year have, however, attracted slightly less support than in 1969-70, while redemptions of maturing securities have been heavy. These results strongly suggest that there is little prospect that the amount available from loan raisings and other financing transactions will be sufficient to finance the prospective deficit in 1970-71 without some borrowing from the Reserve Bank. The purpose of this Bill is, therefore, to obtain authority to borrow from the Reserve Bank an amount necessary to complete the financing of the deficit in 1970-71 and to use the proceeds of the borrowing for defence purposes. 
The Bill is essentially a machinery measure to enable the Government to carry out policies already approved under the various Acts authorising expenditure, the raising of revenue and financing transactions. It does not authorise expenditures which have not already been approved by Parliament but merely provides for expenditure, already authorised by Parliament in Appropriation Act (No. 1) 1970-71 and Appropriation Act (No. 3) 1970-71 to be charged to the Loan Fund instead of to the Consolidated Revenue Fund. This practice of charging part of bur expenditure on defence services to Loan Fund has, of course, been followed in previous years where borrowings from the Reserve Bank have been necessary to complete the financing of a Budget deficit. 
Honourable members will appreciate that at this stage of the financial year, with large amounts of revenue still to be collected and expenditures still to be incurred, and because of the unpredictability of loan raising, it is not possible to forecast with precision the amount which it may be necessary to borrow from the Reserve Bank to complete the financing of the deficit. This amount is the residual of all other Commonwealth Budget transactions and relatively small percentage variations in other items can have a significant effect on it. Therefore no specific upper limit is set to the amount which might be borrowed under the legislation. Instead, like other similar Loan Bills introduced in recent years, this Bill seeks authority to borrow such sums as the Treasurer considers to be the likely maximum amount necessary to complete the financing of the deficit. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read  a  second time. 
This Bill seeks the approval of Parliament to the guarantee by the Commonwealth of a $US23.2m ($20.7m) borrowing by the Administration of the Territory of Papua New Guinea from the International Bank for reconstruction and development. The proceeds of the loan will assist in financing a major hydro-electric project on the upper Ramu River in the highlands of New Guinea, about 85 miles north west of Lae. The project was examined by appraisal missions from the International Bank in 1969 and 1970 and the loan documents were settled recently during negotiations in Washington which were attended by representatives of the International Bank, the Commonwealth, the Territory Administration and the Electricity Commission of the Territory. The Administration will onlend the proceeds of the loan to the Electricity Commission which, under an associated project agreement between the Commission and the Bank, is responsible for the actual construction work. Work on the project will commence shortly, it involves the construction of an underground power station on the Ramu River with an initial installed capacity of 45 megowatts; approximately 320 miles of transmission lines; 4 transformer substations at Lae, Madang, Goroka and Mount Hagen; and the enlargement of transformer capacity at Kundiawa and Kainantu substations. The project is estimated to cost $30.3m and  the  loan from the International Bank will cover the foreign exchange component of this total cost. 
Borrowings by the Territory Administration automatically carry a Commonwealth guarantee by virtue of the operation of section 75a of the Papua and New Guinea Act 1949-1968. However, with loans from the International Bank, a formal guarantee agreement is required from the Commonwealth and this must be authorised by specific legislation. The guarantee agreement for this loan, which is shown as the first schedule to the Bill, follows the form of the 2 guarantee agreements previously approved by Parliament in connection with a telecommunications loan made by the International Bank to the Territory in 1968, and a highways loan made in 1970. The present loan carries an interest rate of 7.25 per cent and is for a period of 25 years, with repayments commencing after 5 years. A commitment fee of threequarters of 1 per cent per annum is payable on undrawn balances until the loan is fully drawn. 
The Bill provides for parliamentary approval of the guarantee agreement. It makes consequential provision to ensure the effectiveness of undertakings in the guarantee and loan agreements regarding freedom of payments from Australian taxation or restrictions imposed by Australian law.It also includes an appropriation of moneys required for the Commonwealth to make any payments under the guarantee. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The main purpose of the Bill is to amend the Loan (Farmers' Debt Adjustment) Act 1935-1950 to enable funds available to the States arising from that Act to be used for the same purpose as the funds to be provided by the Commonwealth under the States Grants (Rural Reconstruction) Bill. The Loan (Farmers' Debt Adjustment) Act 1935 authorised the making of grants to the States for the purpose of discharging in whole or in part, the debts of farmers by means of compositions or schemes of arrangement between farmers and their creditors. The States were empowered to use the funds to make either grants or loans to farmers. One condition laid down in the Act was that repayments to the States by farmers were to be used for the same purposes as the initial Commonwealth grants, so that such repayments constituted a revolving fund for the purposes specified in the Act. At 30th June 1970 the States had cash balances totalling $7. 6m, and loans outstanding to farmers totalling $4. 6m arising from the operation of the Act. 
During the recent discussions with the States on the rural reconstruction scheme, it was agreed that the States would use the balances available to them under the Act for the purposes of the new scheme, which are wider than those laid down in the 
 Act. The Bill will enable the States to proceed accordingly. It provides that repayments to the States by farmers of loans made from these balances for the purposes  of the new scheme may be used again, for the same purposes. A further provision in the Bill ls intended to fulfil the undertaking given to the Tasmanian Government, arising out of .the 1968 drought in Tasmania, that the Commonwealth would take action to enable the State to use the funds available to it under the Act for the relief of farmers affected by that drought. Finally, as a consequence of recent bankruptcy legislation, the Bill provides for the repeal of section 9 and an amendment of section 10 of the Act. 
I should also like to take this opportunity of announcing 'that, as a further means of facilitating desirable structural adjustment in rural industries, the board of the Commonwealth Banking Corporation has agreed to widen the lending activities of the Commonwealth Development Bank. At the present time, the Bank does not normally approve loan applications for property purchases not involving substantial developmental features. It has now been decided that the Bank will consider loan applications for the purpose of assisting farmers to acquire additional land to build up the size and operational efficiency of their farms. Those eligible for assistance will be working farmers whose properties may be too small to constitute an enterprise viable in the long run, or farmers who by acquiring additional land will assist the adjustment process through enabling uneconomic farms to be purchased. Loan applications will normally be considered only from persons whose main source of income will be the farming enterprise concerned. 
The terms and conditions attaching to such loans will be the same as those currently applied by the Development Bank. In particular: 
The repayment term will be determined in the light of the circumstances of each case, but may be up to 20 years; 
The interest rate will be  6i  per cent; and 
Finance would not otherwise have been available to the borrower on reasonable and suitable terms and conditions. 
To increase the capacity of the Development Bank to operate in this new field of lending, the Government has decided to provide in the 1971-72 Budget an amount of $10m by way of an advance to the Development Bank. The advance will carry a concessional interest rate of 4 per cent in order to allow the Development Bank a margin to cover the costs of making and administering such loans. I commend the Bill to honouralbe members. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Patterson)  adjourned. 
The Government is, of course, very anxious to see an increase in productivity. The purpose of the Government's policies is to achieve this. Unfortunately, too often those purposes are frustrated by strikes that occur without reasonable grounds. As to providing some incentive, I remind the honourable gentleman that it is very much in the interests of all areas of the work force - employers, instrumentalities; the whole range of those producing the gross national product - to increase productivity. They have already an incentive to do it. Whether the Government can add to that incentive through the benefits referred to by the honourable member is a matter that would have to be considered in the Budget context and I will take under reference the honourable member's question. 
I will provide the honourable gentleman with a transcript df what I said at Wesley Church yesterday so that he can read my remarks iri their entirety. As reported, various segments of what I said were taken out. What I had to say needs to be seen as a whole. I put a great deal of time into constructing my speech because I believe completely in what I said. In the course of speaking I drew the attention of anybody who cared to listen or read to the need for everybody in our community to play his part in the realisation of Australia's potential, because only by realising that potential will we be able to achieve the things that we as Australians want. The honourable member, at the end of his question, made an allegation which related to employers who spent time on the golf course. If employers spend time during the week on the golf course I criticise such action, except insofar as it is necessary for them to obtain relaxation so that they can do their jobs. 
Employers owe a duty to manage to the very best of their capacity and to instruct themselves in the way to manage, so that they can use in the best way all of the resources which it is their duty to command. By a partnership between management and all persons in the work force, whether they are employed at the middle management, supervisory or workshop floor level, we shall achieve something in Australia. The honourable member will not help this objective by picking out for criticism individual members or strata of the work force. 
I cannot agree with anything, in equity or otherwise, until I examine the matter. That is exactly what I shall do and give the honourable gentleman an answer. 
I will take the matter into consideration in the formulation of the Budget. 
Had the strike continued, the effects on Tasmania would have been _ crippling. Fortunately, it is not to continue. To that extent, we can be very thankful that the financial position of Tasmania will not deteriorate as it otherwise would have. There is a bounce back as to demands on Commonwealth financial  revenues in respect of difficulties that Tasmania may have found itself in. However, I have no doubt that' the economic effects on the rest of the economy will be quite serious. 
What will be lost in gross national product I cannot assess at this time. What I can draw to the attention of the honourable member is the fact that goods and services were not provided. To the extent that that can be recovered in the production of goods, no doubt this will need to be done by working overtime and/or other means which will add to the cost of production, therefore add to the price, and therefore add to the cost of living. In this sense I am conscious of the fact that we do have a Commonwealth deficit in our Budget this financial year. The extent to which we forego revenue will make that problem more difficult. It will make it more difficult for government, for all parties in this Parliament and for the community as a whole to face up to the inflationary pressures which exist today. Altogether, this strike was a most unfortunate incident. 
Pursuant to section 14 of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act 1948-1970, I present the 22nd Annual Report of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Board on the operation of the Act for the year ended 30th June 1970, together with financial accounts and the report of the AuditorGeneral on those accounts. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purposes of this Bill are to amend the States Grants Act 1970 to provide for the payment of additional grants to the States as compensation for loss of receipts duty revenue and as special revenue assistance to help finance 1970-71 Budget deficits; and to make certain amendments needed because of the non-payment of pay-roll tax by Victoria and the legal challenge by that State and South Australia to the validity of pay-roll tax in its application to State governments. 
Under the new revenue grants arrangements settled at the Premiers Conference last June provision was made for a substantial increase in the level of Commonwealth assistance to the States on the basis that the distribution of tax resources would remain unchanged and that the States and their authorities would continue to pay pay-roll tax. In 1970-71 the revenue assistance payable under these new arrangements is currently estimated to be nearly $190m or almost 16 per cent greater than in 1969-70, which is, by any standards, a very large increase. 
However, notwithstanding this very large increase in assistance, the States have run into financial difficulties since last June. First, for reasons of which honourable members will be aware, the Commonwealth was forced to limit the application of its legislation imposing a duty on business receipts on behalf of the States to receipts before 1st October 1970. As a result, the States were faced with the loss of a major source of revenue. Secondly, following the presentation of their 1970-71 Budgets the States were faced with a quite abnormal increase in costs largely as a result of very large increases in wage awards granted to their employees by various wage-fixing bodies. It has been estimated that such increases will have the effect of increasing wages per State employee, on average, by no less than 15 per cent in 1970-71. 
No arrangements intended to apply over a 5-year period could be expected to cope with sudden abnormal developments of this nature and magnitude. Indeed, it has always been recognised that, within any 5-yearly period of their operation, the financial assistance grants arrangements are not designed to meet either significant changes in the State's powers and responsibilities or severe financial difficulties that arise due to abnormal factors beyond the States' control. The Commonwealth therefore agreed, at the Premiers Conference last October, to compensate the States for the loss of receipts duty revenues and, more recently, to provide additional revenue assistance of $43m to help the States finance their prospective Budget deficits in 1970-71. 
I emphasise that this additional revenue assistance on which we agreed last month is being provided on the understanding that it would be used to reduce the States' revenue deficits and not to increase expenditure on goods and services in 1970-71 following the measures taken by the States after the February PremiersConference. This was unanimously accepted by the States at the April Premiers Conference. I might add that these measures of restraint by the States helped not only to alleviate their own budgetary problems, but also to reduce inflationary pressures upon the economy. However even after allowance for the fact that these measures were estimated to reduce the States' 1970-71 deficits by $60m to $70m, it was apparent from the information before us at the Premiers Conference on 5th April that the States would still be left with substantial deficits in 1970-71. The Commonwealth therefore agreed to provide special revenue assistance of $43m in 1970-71 on the basis I have mentioned. As a result the total of the Commonwealth revenue assistance to be provided under the new grants arrangements and of the additional revenue assistance is estimated to be $230m, or over 19 per cent higher in 1970-71 than the comparable figure for 1969-70. 
The additional revenue assistance is to be distributed between the States in proportion to the formula grants. As final estimates of these grants are not yet available, the following estimates of amounts payable to each State are subject to revision: 
As regards the amount of receipts duty compensation to be paid to each State, it was agreed at the Premiers Conference held on 8th October last that in 1970-71 each State would be paid a grant equal to the estimated amount of duty which would have been collected in 1970-71 in respect of receipts in the last 9 months of the year (other than wage and salary receipts) if the receipts duty legislation of the Commonwealth and the States had continued to operate after 30th September 1970. In addition, the Commonwealth agreed to representations by Queensland that it should receive an additional grant to compensate it for the fact that the rate of duty in that State applying in the first quarter of the year was only 0.02 per cent, compared to 0.1 per cent in all other States and under the Commonwealth's legislation. Queensland argued that it had framed amendments to its own legislation such that, had the original proposals agreed between the Commonwealth and the State governments been agreed to by the Commonwealth Parliament, its rate would also have been 0.1 per cent as from the beginning of 1970-71. 
It was also agreed at the October conference that the compensation for 1971-72 and subsequent years would be calculated by estimating the amount of duty each State would have received from receipts duty at 0.1 per cent in 1970-71 had it been a 'normal' year and adding the amounts so estimated to the 'base' to which the financial assistance grants formula, as laid down in section 5 of the States Grants Act 1970, is applied. In settling upon this procedure, it was recognised that the grants calculated under it would not necessarily equal exactly the amounts of receipts duty which would have been collected. It was seen, however, by both the Commonwealth and the States as an equitable approach to the problem and accepted on that basis. 
The estimates of duty which would have been collected in the whole of 1970-71 had it been a 'normal' year, and in the last three-quarters of the year had Commonwealth and State legislation continued in operation, have been discussed between Commonwealth and State treasury officials and the amounts, which are set out in clauses 3 and 4 of the Bill, respectively, have been endorsed by the Government. 
With the concurrence of the House, 1 incorporate in Hansard a table showing the compensation payable in 1970-71 and preliminary estimates of the additions to the financial assistance grants in 1971-72 which will arise from the provisions of the legislation. 
Approximate 
Grants Grants Payable Payable in 1970-71 in 1971-82* 
New South Wales .. 24.00 40. 5 
Vxtoria .. 17.33 29.2 
Queensland .. 8.02 12.2 
South Australia .. 4.67 7.9 
Western Australia .. 4.35 7.4 
Tasmania .. .. 1.34 2.2 
Total 59.71 99.4 
* Approximate estimates made by making arbitrary assumptions concerning the increase in average wages in. the. year ending March 1972 and in each state's population in the year ending December 1971. 
At the October Premiers Conference, the Commonwealth made it clear that, as with the grants payable under the new financial assistance grants arrangements, the payment of receipts duty compensation would be dependent on the States and their semi-government and local authorities continuing to pay pay-roll tax. This followed the statement by the former Prime Minister in this House on 30th September last that the Commonwealth could not accept the position taken by the Victorian Government that it did not intend to seek an appropriation from the Victorian Parliament for the purpose of paying pay roll tax to the Commonwealth in 1970-71. 
The main reason why the Commonwealth continues to make the payment of the financial assistance grants conditional on the payment of pay-roll tax by the States and their authorities is, of course, because non-payment of the tax would, in effect, tricsease the net flow of funds from the Commonwealth to the States beyond that intended by the Commonwealth Government and by the Parliament when agreeing to authorise the payment of the grants. The amount of revenue currently involved is considerable. In 1.970-71 State governments are estimated to be liable to pay pay-toll tax of about $40m and their semi-government and local authorities approximately $30m. There are, of course, other reasons making it desirable to preserve the very comprehensive basis on which the tax is presently levied. Essentially, however, the Commonwealth's position on this matter is quite simple. We could accept a situation in which the States or their authorities, or some of them, ceased to pay pay-roll tax only if there were to be an equivalent reduction in the grants payable to the State or States concerned. As there is no provision in the Slates Grants Act 1970 to permit deductions to be made from the grants where a State, or ils authorities, do not pay pay-roll tax, it is necessary to include such a provision in order to meet the possibility that the High Court will uphold the challenge by Victoria and South Australia to the constitutional validity of pay-roll tax in its application to State governments. Further, as Victoria has not paid any pay-roll tax this year, and as the Victorian Parliament has now risen, it is also necessary to have authority to make a deduction from the grant payable to that State in 1970-71 in order to protect Commonwealth revenue in the event that Victoria decides not to meet, or in the absence of parliamentary authority is unable to meet, its liability for 1970-71 (Quorum formed.) However, on this latter point, I would draw honourable members' attention to sub-section (5) and (6) of the proposed new section 9a, the effect of which is to authorise the refund of an amount previously deducted from a State's grant where that State subsequently  pays the amount of pay-roll tax owing. 
Honourable members will also note that the Bill leaves discretion to the Treasurer to determine the amount of any deduction  from the Grant payable to a State. I assure the House that it would not be the intention to deduct an. amount, greater than the amount of pay-roll tax not paid. However, it will not necessarily be. possible to estimate precisely the amounts of pay-roll tax a State government or a State authority - would have paid in some period had it continued to pay the tax. In this regard I mention that, in the event of a High Court  decision unfavourable to the Commonwealth, and the States, or some of them, deciding not to continue to pay pay-roll tax, the legislation would permit the Government to offset the loss of pay-roll tax revenue to the Commonwealth in future years, by making a deduction to the base grants to which the financial assistance grants formula is applied. It may be of interest to honourable members to know that provisions of this type in States grants legislation are by no means unprecedented. The States Grants Act 1946-48- under which tax reimbursement grants were paid from 1946-47 to 1958-59 inclusiveprovided in effect that, if a State imposed an income tax, it could thereby lose its grant. Similarly, the present Commonwealth Aid Roads Act authorises the Treasurer to make a deduction from an amount payable to a State where that State has failed to comply with the conditions of the roads grants. 
The non-payment of pay-roll tax by Victoria has also given rise to the need to amend the States Grants Act 1970 in order to ensure that Victoria's action does not reduce the size of the increase in average wages calculated for the year ended March 1971, this being one of the elements in the formula used to determine the 1970-71 grants payable to all States. The failure of Victoria to submit pay-roll tax returns in respect of the period June 1970 to March 1971 means that, under the legislation as it now stands, the increase in average wages for the year ended March 1971 would have to be calculated by the Acting Commonwealth Statistician without reference to the number of Victorian Government employees and their wages during the period in which returns have not been lodged. Without going into details, it is estimated that the effect of this would be to reduce the increase in average wages for the year ending March 1971 by about 0.3 per cent, which in turn would reduce the financial assistance grants payable this financial year to all States by about $3m. 
It would obviously be inequitable to allow the States grants to be lower than they should be merely because Victoria has not lodged pay-roll tax returns for part of the relevant period. Clause 6 of the Bill  therefore amends  section 10 of the Act so as to allow the statistician more discretion in calculating the increase in average wages. This will enable him, in this and other circumstances which may arise, to make such adjustments to figures obtained from pay-roll tax returns as he considers necessary to put the calculations on a consistent and accurate basis. 
To sum up, the Government believes that, in providing receipts duty compensation of $59.7m in this year and of roughly $100m in 1971-72, escalating in future years, as well as additional revenue assistance of $43 m this year, we are reaching a fair result with the States. It follows that we could not afford, in addition, to suffer a further net loss of revenue as a result of the non-payment of pay-roll tax by a State or States or their authorities, and we have accordingly to protect ourselves against that situation. 
To put the matter in perspective, with the concurrence of the House I incorporate in Hansard a table showing the extent to which, after taking account of the proposals contained in this Bill, we shall be assisting the States in the current financial year. 
CO MMO NWEALTH PAYMENTS TO OR FOR THE STATES 
1969-70 1970-71 Increase 
Sm  Ito  Per cent 
Payments of a revenue nature(a) 1,334.7 (0)1,539.3 IS. 3 
Receipts Duty Compensation (b) ., 59.7 . . 
Additional Revenue 
Assistance (b) .. 43.0 . . 
Adjustment to Financial Assistance 
Grants .. (d)3.0 
Payments under existing legislation. (b) Payments proposed  to be made  under or arising out of the Bill. 
State works and housing programmes are financed, so far as possible, from loan raisings on behalf of the States. 
Estimated. 
I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)The question now is 'That the adjourned debate be made an order of the day for the next sitting'. 
There were reports last night and this morning which, among other things, I received during that time and which we were following closely. This question will need to be considered very closely and followed by Australian financial authorities and by the Government. Essentially, there is a situation in Europe in which most of the West European countries have suspended trading. This is not true of France and is not true of the United Kingdom. At one stage last night there was a report, which somewhat surprised me, that Australia had suspended trading. I chased it down; I am afraid that I got a few fellows out of bed to get answers; and I found that there had been a misreport and that it was Austria and not Australia that had suspended trading. 
Essentially, what has caused this situation is the balance of payments situation of the United States dollar. The balance of payments of the United States dollar is such that, in conjuction with interest rates, on the short term market in the United States and in western Europe, a great flow of dollars into Europe has occurred. Steps have been taken in this respect. I would not like to go further than to say that there has been a great flow of money over there. 
I think that the genesis of the current situation was a report by a very respected group of West German economists the other day. This group suggested that the German Deutsche mark should be allowed to float against the United States dollar. I think that that is really the point at which movements started to take place so quickly. We will be following the situation very closely. If any circumstances arise which lead me to the belief that the Parliament should be informed today of them, I will seek then to make a statement in the House. Whether I am permitted to do so, of course, will depend on whether I am given leave. As my colleague, the Minister for Immigration, pointed out the other day, the Opposition has been refusing Ministers leave to make statements on similar important matters. 
This letter and the schedule ought to be put in perspective. When I became Leader of the House I decided it would serve everybody's convenience if I circulated to all honourable members a programme so that with a knowledge of the days of sittings they could make their appointments and formulate their programmes personally. In doing this I constantly had a problem. The problem was that if I put out a schedule which showed any finishing date, people would jump to the conclusion that that was the period of time for which the sittings would proceed. I tried various formulas to draw to the attention of people that it was not a firm finishing date and that it could be earlier or later. 
Longer or later, which ever you like. I tried different formulas but I could never get an understanding that the words I used were not intended in any way to foretell the length of the sesssion but were merely for the convenience of honourable members. If honourable members will look at previous letters for other sessions they will find that the words used on those occasions are different from those used in this letter. I kept trying formulas which would bring the attention of people to the fact that it was for their benefit for forward programming and had nothing to do with the finishing date of the session, and this was so with this letter and this schedule. As to whether there was any discussion with members of the Cabinet, no discussion that I remember was held with Cabinet. The way it was formulated would be that I would have a look at the commencement date and make a recommendation to the Prime Minister as to the day on which the session should commence. 
That is a rather stupid interjection. I would consult the Prime Minister as to the commencement date of the session. Having obtained the approval of the Prime Minister as to the commencement date of the session it was then merely a matter of extending the programme from that date. The programme of sittings formerly was 3 weeks on and 1 week off. In relation to this schedule it was 2 weeks on and 1 week off. The programme had been changed. At the time I drew up the schedule I really did not know what date 1 should end the sittings, having regard to the difficulties I have had in the past as to the date of the end of a session. It was not meant to be the date on which to end the session. It merely served the interests and convenience of honourable members so that they would be able to programme. 
Pursuant to section 11 of the Life Insurance Act 1945-1965, I present the 25th annual report of the Insurance Commissioner for the year ended 31st December 1970. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to implement the Government's decision announced on 1st May 1970 to introduce legislation to ensure that the Commonwealth had adequate power to control the acquisition by local or overseas interests of large shareholdings in banks incorporated in Australia. The Government's policy towards the ownership of banks in Australia is based on the view that banking should be conducted by companies of undoubted financial viability which can be expected to recognise that banking is a business in which the nation has special interests. In addition, it is the policy of the Government, as it has been of all previous governments since 1945, not to grant overseas interests authorities to carry on banking business in Australia or to allow them to acquire interests in existing Australian banks. 
The Banking Act confers on the Government power to consider applications to open new banks in Australia and to recommend to the Governor-General that an authority should be granted. Sections 8 and 9 provide that, subject to certain exemptions, a body corporate shall not carry on banking business in Australia unless it has an authority to do so. In accordance with the long-standing policy, applications from overseas interests for authorities to carry on banking business would be refused. Before recommending the issue of an authority to an Australian applicant, the Government would need to be fully satisfied on all aspects of the application, in particular that the applicant company had the financial strength to fulfil the responsibilities involved in operating an authorised bank and that the persons controlling the applicant company had a standing commensurate with those responsibilities. 
Consistent with the power in relation to the granting of authorities to commence new banking businesses, the Government needs to have undoubted power to control changes in ownership of an authorised bank. The Banking Act confers only limited power on the Government to control such changes in ownership. Section 63 provides that, except with the Treasurer's consent, a bank shall not enter into an arrangement for the sale or disposal of its business, by amalgamation or otherwise, or effect a reconstruction of the bank. But there are other ways in which the ownership of a bank could change hands. The legal advice is that it is doubtful whether the Treasurer's consent would be required under this section to the acquisition of a controlling or significant interest in a bank, for instance, by the purchase of the bank's shares on a stock exchange, the acquisition of shares by means of takeover bid, or the taking up of a parcel of new shares of the bank issued specifically for the purpose. 
The object of the Bill is therefore to supplement the provisions of section 63 of the Banking Act, by providing a method of exercising control over the possession by local or overseas interests of substantial interests in shares of banks incorporated in 
Australia. The need for the Government to be able to control changes in bank ownership was emphasised last year when certain changes in shareholdings in one of the authorised banks was brought to the Government's notice. As I have already mentioned, my predecessor issued a statement on 1st May 1970 announcing the Government's intention to introduce legislation to require the Treasurer's approval in future to acquisitions of shares which had the effect of raising a beneficial holding to 10 per cent or more of the capital of a bank incorporated in Australia. 
He also warned that the amending legislation would provide that persons may be required to divest themselves of bank shares acquired after 1st May 1970, but before the enactment of the legislation, where the effect of acquiring such shares would be to raise a shareholding to 10 per cent or more, or, in the case of any shareholding of 10 per cent or more at that date, to raise that shareholding further. At the time it was envisaged that the legislation would be in the form of an amendment to the Banking Act. However, in view of the length and technical nature of the provisions, it has been decided that a separate piece of legislation would be preferable. Subject to certain transitional provisions, the Bill limits the nominal value of voting shares of an authorised bank incorporated in Australia in which a person, including a corporation, may have an interest to less than 10 per cent of the total nominal value of the voting shares of the bank, unless the Treasurer has fixed a higher percentage for that person. Where the Treasurer has fixed a higher percentage for a person, the Bill provides that the person's interest in shares of the bank concerned shall not exceed that percentage. 
Under the transitional provisions of the Bill, a person who had an interest in the shares of a bank amounting to 10 per cent or more at 1st May 1970, and who still retains that interest at the date on which the legislation comes into operation, will be permitted to hold such interests, subject to his compliance with certain notification requirements. Where the interest of a person subject to the transitional provisions has fallen between 1st May 1970 and the commencement date of the legislation, his permissible interest will be the interest held at the commencement date. The substantive provision of the Bill thus prohibits a person from being possessed of an interest in bank shares amounting to 10 per cent or more of the voting shares of a bank. This prohibition provides the support for Government policy of not allowing local interests considered unsuitable for the task, or overseas interests, to  aquire  a stake in Australian banking through the acquisition of interest in existing banks. 
Quite the contrary. Because it is not possible to foresee what developments in the structure or ownership of banks might be desirable in the future, the Bill confers on the Treasurer a discretionary power to allow a person to have an interest of 10 per cent or more in a bank. This is a permissive power and is not one intended to frustrate desirable changes. Without this discretionary power, the Bill would preclude the possibility of major changes in the Australian shareholdings of a bank in all circumstances. This is not the intention of the Bill. There could be sound reasons in some cases for authorising substantial shareholdings. For example, at the present time, the private savings banks are wholly-owned by their parent trading banks and it would be unreasonable not to provide for similar situations arising again in the future. Moreover, the recent merger of the ANZ and ES&amp;A banks involved a change of ownership of the combined savings bank subsidiary and without the proposed discretionary power a merger of this kind in the future could be frustrated or at least impeded. 
Limitation of shareholdings to some maximum arbitrary percentage in all circumstances could therefore be unreasonable and undesirable. The Bill does provide, however, for the Government to have an opportunity to consider specific applications. Any interests seeking to acquire a controlling stake in a bank would need to demonstrate, for instance, that the acquisition would not be contrary to the national interest. If I can explain to the honourable gentleman quickly, what that paragraph is intended to say is that there are circumstances where the savings bank is a wholly owned subsidiary of the trading bank and the other thing is an amalgamation such as  that between the ANZ Bank and the E S &amp; A Bank. It should be emphasised that the discretionary power in this Bill is in effect an extension of the discretionary power which exists in the Banking Act for granting authority to set up a new bank in Australia. If the legislation had been in the form of an amendment of the Banking Act, as it might have been, rather than a separate Bill, this relationship would have been readily apparent. 
I turn now to the specific provisions of the Bill. The Bill draws upon other recent laws relating to shareholdings in companies, with appropriate modifications to suit the purposes of this Bill. For example, with minor modification, clause 8 'Interests in Shares' follows the definition of interests in shares in the provision included in the Australian Capital Territory Companies Ordinance 1971 at the recommendation of the Eggleston Committee to require the disclosure of substantial shareholdings in certain Australian Capital Territory companies. Clause 4 extends the obligation to comply with the Bill to all natural persons, resident in Australia or not, and to all bodies corporate, whether incorporated or carrying on business in Australia or not. Clause 5 extends the operation of the Bill to cover acts done or omitted to be done outside Australia. By virtue of the definition of 'bank' in clause 6, the Bill applies only to interests in shares in banks incorporated in Australia. This has been found necessary for legal reasons since the Commonwealth's powers could not extend to interests in shares of a company incorporated overseas. 
A person's interest in the shares of a bank is widely defined in clause 8 to include interests in the shares held on his behalf by, or controlled through, associated persons or nominees. The defintion is designed to cover situations where an interest in shares might be acquired which would enable a single individual or corporation, or a group, to control or influence the policies of a bank, or where the right to control the voting power of a share is exercised through intermediaries, for example, through a subsidiary company standing between the ultimate beneficial holder and the registered shareholder. Clause 9 extends the scope of a person's interest by providing that a person is to be deemed to have an interest in shares in which an associated person, as defined in that clause, has an interest. 
I have already explained the substantive provisions of the Bill limiting the holding of interests in the voting shares of a bank incorporated in Australia. These are contained in clause 10, which also empowers the Treasurer to vary or revoke a percentage fixed under that clause. As the holding of substantial interests in bank shares is a matter of public interest, there is also provision for the various instruments by which the Treasurer fixes, varies or revokes a percentage under this clause to be published in the Gazette. 
I have also referred to the transitional provisions which are included in clause 11 of the Bill. These provisions protect any substantial interests held in shares of the banks concerned as at 1st May 1970. To bring such holdings under notice, the persons concerned are required to give the Treasurer within 3 months of the commencement date, or such further period as the Treasurer allows, full particulars of their interests in the relevant bank shares as at 1st May 1970 and the commencement date of the legislation. The Treasurer is empowered to vary the percentage applicable to a person under the transitional provisions, provided the percentage is not reduced below the person's interest at the date of the variation. 
Clause 12 provides that where a person fails to comply with the substantive provisions of clause 10, a Supreme Court may, on the application of the Treasurer, make one or more orders of the kind set out in that clause. These include an order restraining the exercise of voting rights attached to bank shares, or directing the sale of all or any of the shares, in which the person concerned has an interest. Before making an order the court must satisfy itself so far as it can reasonably do so, that the order would not unfairly prejudice any person. The court may not make an order, other than an order restraining the exercise of voting rights, if it is satisfied that failure to comply with clause 10 was due to the person's inadvertence, mistake or ignorance and that, in all the circumstances, the failure ought to be excused. The Supreme Court of each State is vested with Federal jurisdiction for the purposes of this clause. - 
Clause 13 provides a person with a defence to a prosecution, in the event of failure to comply with the provisions of the Bill limiting the possession of interests in bank shares being due to ignorance of a relevant fact or occurrence. To protect persons selling shares, clause 14 provides that where a transaction in bank shares has led to a contravention of the provisions of the Bill the transaction shall not be unenforceable, voidable or void for that reason alone. Clause 15 invests State courts with Federal jurisdiction with respect to offences against the provisions of the Bill irrespective of where the offence is committed, and invests courts of the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory with jurisdiction with respect to offences committed in the respective Territories. Clause 16 provides that proceedings for an offence shall not be instituted without the written consent of the Treasurer. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Yes. I wanted to introduce the legislation so that it could be subjected to examination in depth. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
The honourable member for Casey  (Mr Howson)  asked me a number of questions. I shall give him answers to the questions which I can recall. Firstly, I have some comments to make in regard to the eligible scheme. An eligible superannuation scheme is one declared by the Treasurer by instrument under his hand published in the 'Gazette' for the purposes of the preservation provisions. The schemes declared as eligible superannuation schemes will be ones that meet certain criteria. They will provide safeguards against, firstly, double-banking of employer supplements; secondly, circumvention of the 20 year qualifying period, and thirdly, manipulation that would enable an employee to receive, on resignation, the employer element of a transfer value, paid by the Commonwealth, that he would not  have received had he remained in the Commonwealth scheme. 
Initially, eligible schemes will be those in the Commonwealth family as their rules are amended to provide for preservation and incorporate the safeguards mentioned. The number of schemes will be expanded progressively as negotiations are concluded with the authorities responsible for the schemes. Public employment is not defined but the Bills in proposed sections 119q of the superannuation legislation and 82v of the defence forees retirement benefits law provides that the Treasurer may, by instrument under his hand published in the Gazette', declare employment by a person or persons specified in the instrument to be public employment. Generally, the declaration for public employment will include a wide range of full-time employment in the public sector, as distinct from the private sector, Commonwealth employment, State employment and their instrumentalities and universities, and also companies in which the Commonwealth is the major shareholder The administrative action necessary to give effect to the provisions of the Bill is well advanced. They will be distributed to all departments and Services through the various agencies and I will arrange for them to go to honourable members. The honourable member asked whether I would consider the matter or, to use his phrase as is so customary in this Parliament, would I look at the matter again in 2 years. The answer is, yes, I will. 
 in reply - There have been 3 speakers who have brought up varying points, but in some respects the points brought up overlap. I would like to deal firstly with the point made by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean).  He said that he. resented - I think he used a word as .strong as that - legislation coming in so late in the sessional period. I want to assure him that I would like to have brought . the legislation in earlier but I have been constantly holding off in the hope that the decision of the High Court of Australia in the payroll tax case would be delivered so that I could bring in legislation on the basis of that decision. But with the Parliament about to rise I found it necessary to bring in legislation which surveyed both the possibility of the decision going against, the Commonwealth and the possibility of it going against the States. In many respects that explains the first point raised by the honourable member for Corio.  (Mr Scholes)  as to why this deduction and refund is made. 
Of course, very wide publicity was given to the arrangements which are incorporated in this Bill, save one, and that is the provision of an extra 3m. The amount of $59.7m for the purpose of receipts duties compensation was very well publicised following the meeting of the Premiers, and the $43m that was given to the States for the relief of budget deficits was also very well publicised. The States were provided for on that basis. I do not think honourable members were seriously inconvenienced in dealing with the matter in that manner. The only other amount not known was $3m. That had to be provided in equity because if that had not been done the totality of the States would be $3m short of what it ought to have been on a proper evaluation of what the annual wage increase was until 31st March. Apart from the arguments raised by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  I think I have answered the matters that he discussed. 
The honourable member for Corio raised the matter of payroll tax. I am quite sure that the Premier of Victoria would have been delighted if his statement was correct that the amount of the budget deficit was the amount of the payroll tax not paid by the States. In fact, if my memory is correct,  Sir Henry  Bolte expected that his budget deficit would have been between approximately $22m and $23m, and that the amount of payroll tax that he would have paid is $9m. So there is a difference. 
I would like to make another important point to the honourable member for Corio. He is always willing to study the facts. 1 would like him to bear this in mind when he talks about the old argument of the States borrowing money and paying interest and the Commonwealth raising money and not paying interest. That old argument has done the rounds. Let me remind the honourable member that there are 2 very significant points. The first point is that the Commonwealth has released the States of debt charges of $200m in the last financial year and that under the arrangement that amount will escalate. The second point is that within the Commonwealth loan programme for works and services a grant of $200m is included. From recollection, last year, approximately $830m was allocated for the Commonwealth loan programme. 
Of that, $200m was actually granted for the works programme. 
The honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  said that he would like to see more formal arrangements concluded. If by that statement the honourable member means that there should be an agreement of some kind, I understand what he means - if that is what he intends to convey. But what the arrangement is could not be more clear. That is that the total cash flow from the Commonwealth to the States which includes the provisions in this Bill will amount in this financial year to $2,850m. That cash flow is on the basis of all the States paying the payroll tax. That was a clear condition that the Commonwealth imposed and the States other than Victoria accepted it. All States, including South Australia, have actually made payroll tax payments. The increase of money to the States this financial year is approximately $190m under the arrangement agreed to last October. Another $103m will be granted by this Bill. I think that is the correct figure. This is an increase of almost $300m in this financial year over the payment made last financial year. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The cost to income tax revenue of concessional deductions for education expenses allowed under section 82j of the Income Tax Assessment Act is estimated at $75m per annum. 
The annua] cost of increasing to $600 per student the maximum deduction allowed under section 82j is estimated to be approximately $8m. 
and (4) No statistics are available that would permit reliable estimates to be made of the cost to revenue of extending the deductions allowed for education expenses to each of the classes of education expenses referred to, but it has been estimated that the annual cost to income tax revenue of extending the deduction to cover education expenses up to a maximum of $600 per student incurred in respect of full-time students aged 21 years and over would be about $2m. 
No statistics are available of deductions la respect of education expenses allowed under see* tion 51 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 
No statistics are available that would permit reliable estimates to be made of the cost of extending the deductions allowed to taxpayers for education expenses to cover expenses in respect of students in each of these age groups, but it has been estimated that the cost to revenue of allowing concessional deductions for education expenses, to a maximum of $600 per student, in respect of all part-time students would not exceed $5m per annum. 
and (8) No statistics are available on which satisfactory estimates could be based. 
The annual cost to income tax revenue of deductions allowed under section 82b of the Income Tax Assessment Act for the maintenance) of student children is estimated to be approximately $13m. 
The cost to income tax revenue of increasing the' maximum deduction for the maintenance of student children to $312 per student child ls estimated at approximately $6m per annum. 
and (12) The cost to income tax revenue of changing the definition of student children under section 82b (5.) of the Income Tax Assess? ment Act as in (a), (b) and (c), and the cost oj increasing the maximum deduction for student children to $312 are not known. However, tha amounts involved are unlikely to be considerable as the separate net income of most part-time students would exceed $338 per annum, and therefore no deduction for their maintenance would be allowable in these cases. 
Public Revenues in Other Federations  (Question No. 2317) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Acting Commonwealth Statistician has provided the following particulars. 
The following table shows the percentage of public authority revenue raised from their own sources by authorities at each level of government in the United States of America, West Germany and Canada. These percentages are based on revenue figures which have been adjusted (as far as possible from the available information) to a basis similar to that of the revenue figures used for calculating the percentages of public authority revenue in Australia given in reply to Question No. 1383 on 30th. October 1970. 
In making comparisons between countries, "it should be borne in mind that the revenue from their own sources raised by various levels of government is affected' by considerable differences in the distribution of (a) responsibilities to provide government services, (b) the power to levy taxes arid (c) the extent to which, transfers of funds are made between the different levels of government. 
GOVERNMENT AUTHORITIES PERCENTAGES OF GOVERNMENT REVENUE RAISED BY FEDERAL; STATE AND LOCAL GOVERNMENT AUTHORITIES(a) 
United States of America(b) 
The answer to the honourable member's'questton is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Acting Commonwealth Statistician advises that he is unable to provide all of the information sought by the honourable member in the first part of his question. Complete information is not available for personal consumption expenditure on health and no estimates are prepared for private sector expenditure on welfare services. The Australian National Accounts (see table 49 of the 1968-69 issue) show an item, 'Medical, hospital and funeral expenses', and another item 'Chemists goods'. The' latter item includes much expenditure . which cannot be ' regarded' as expenditure on health, and a satisfactory estimate of the health expenditure included in this item cannot be mads at present. Estimates of public authority current and capital expenditure on public health and welfare are published jn Australian National Accounts (tables 64 and 74 of the 1968-69 issue), and an estimate of private gross fixed capital expenditure on new buildings for health services is available from the building statistics collection. 
The Statistician also prepares estimates of public authority and private expenditure on education for the Australian National Accounts (see again tables 49, 64. and 74 of the 1968-69 issue). These latter estimates are made available each year, together with supplementary figures and explanatory notes, in a statement entitled 'Expenditure oa Education*. 
The information which the Statistician has been able to provide in answer to part 1 of the question is set out in the accompanying table. 
With regard to part 2 of the question I ant unable to provide the information sought by the honourable member. The estimates of expenditure on education and public health in the accompanying table may of course be compared with similar figures for other countries, and the honourable member is referred to the United Nations Yearbook of National Accounts Statistics', which shows for many countries, current expenditure oa education and health, and public authority current expenditure on welfare. He is reminded, however, of the difficulties involved in making such comparisons, and in that connection I should like to draw his attention to the views expressed in a statement issued by the Department of Education and Science as a supplement to the Department's Education News' of April 1969, and entitled 'Education and the Gross National Product'. Many of the observations in that paper apply with equal force to international comparisons of expenditure on health services.' 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Information for individual savings banks is hot published. The Quarterly Summary issued by the Papua New Guinea Bureau of Statistics shows the following details for all savings banks in the Territory, as at 30th June 1969: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Acting Commonwealth Statistician has advised that the Bureau of Census and Statistics does not have any information which would provide an answer to this question. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The total amount of workers' compensation payments made under the Commonwealth Employees' Compensation Act in respect of Commonwealth employees and employees of Commonwealth Authorities, including payments for medical and funeral expenses, was: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Board of Enquiry under the chairmanship, of Professor Cochrane did not describe the role of the expatriate banks as inadequate and inactive. It did express the view that they have been slow to take an active role towards indigenous enterprise and that there was much they could do to help. 
It has to be recognised, however, that at this stage of the Territory's development most indigenous enterprises do not lend themselves to the type of financing undertaken by commercial banks. Nevertheless, the commercial banks in the Territory have provided finance for indigenous organisations such as co-operatives, marketing bodies and local government councils as well as to some private Indigenous individuals. 
One of the main objectives in setting up the Papua and New Guinea Development Bank was to meet the requirements of indigenous persons and enterprises who are unable to obtain development finance from other sources. In a few cases the Development Bank has been involved in financing indigenous enterprises jointly with commercial banks. 
The answer to. the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In my statement on 'Productivity and the Community' on 23 February 1971 (in my then capacity as Minister for Labour and National Service), I drew attention to the fact that the incidence of absence from work is equivalent to the loss of about 200,000 persons from the workforce. The estimateis a projection of average absence rates in 186 firms previously surveyed by the Department of Labour and National Service, and because this is a projection a man-day breakdown is not possible. 
The causes of absence resulting in such loss are sickness, industrial and other accidents, and domestic reasons. The statement of 23 February 1971 gave the available projection relating to time-lost accidents. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In regard to the information sought on the amounts advanced in housing loans by (a) terminating and (b) permanent building socieites in each State, the Acting Commonwealth Statistician has advised that official statistics of the activities of permanent and terminating building societies by State are now available for 1968-69. The statistics shown below refer to loans paid over* during the financial years of societies ending in the years shown. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
None 
(a) The value of donations made to overseas relief appeals over the past 5 years Is not known. 
As such donations have not been allowed as deduction for income tax purposes, there has been no cost to revenue. 
No 
As stated above the value of donations to overseas relief appeals is not known. The potential cost to revenue of allowing them cannot, therefore, be estimated. 
The question of allowing deductions In respect of donations for overseas relief purposes is being kept under review. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Acting Commonwealth Statistician has advised that the Bureau of Census and Statistics does not have any information which would provide an answer to this question. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Acting Commonwealth Statistician has supplied the following information in reply to the honourable member's question. 
Particulars of the number of new motor vehicles sold in Australia during the last five years are not available in the Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics. However, details of registrations of new motor vehicles in Australia are available and this information, for the periods indicated, is shown below. 
The answer to the. honourable member's question is as follows: 
See answer given in reply to Question No. 416 (Hansard, 16 February 1971, pages 65 and 66). 
See answer given in reply to Question No. 2633 (Hansard, 20 April 1971, page 1733). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Acting Commonwealth Statistician advises that the re-basing of his factory production indexes' as at . 1968-69 is ' dependent on a number ' of tabulations of data . from, the. 1968-69 Census of Manufacturing Establishments. It is currently expected that these tabulations will not be available before October this year, following which it will be possible to continue work on the re-base. 
It is assumed that the honourable member is referring ,.to. a combination of these two measures, both of which have been published separately. The question of their combination is one of the matters which will be included in the examination referred to in the answer given on 30 October 1970 to Question No. 2028. 
Papua New Guinea:  ForestryEmployment (Question No. 2360) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as. follows: 
This matter falls within the. responsibility of the Ministerial Member for Labour in the House of Assembly for Papua and New Guinea.. 
The Ministerial Member has advised that the nearby concern operated by . the Government' . referred to in paragraph 7.16 of. the Report of the Board of Inquiry on Rural Minimum Wages was the. Department of Forests at both Bulolo and Wau, and . not Commonwealth New Guinea Timbers Ltd. The reference to 'the Treasury' by Professor Cochrane, of course, related to the Territory Treasury,- not the Commonwealth Treasury. 
The- Ministerial Member has further advised that the situation referred to can not be attributed to the Territory 'Treasury but stems from the followingcauses: 
general dissatisfaction existing '-at the time of the establishment of the Board of Inquiry; . 
experimentation with casual labour; 
the impersonal nature' of Government, employment coupled with a lack of continuity in staff compared with that enjoyed by those working with Placer Development. Corporation Ltd. 
differing work situations. 
The Ministerial Member says that the compari  son  drawn was between the conditions of employment with Placer Development Corporation Ltd, at Bulolo and those with the Department of Forests at both Bulolo and Wau. The former, being a private enterprise, can be flexible in its approach to labour problems. The Department  of  Forests, on the other hand, being a Government Department accountable for considerable expenditure of public moneys within a fixed budget and having to woih within fixed wage standards, cannot be so flexible. Employees of the Department have generally been paid in accordance with the local award. 
The Ministerial Member reports that the Department of Forests has for some time been experiencing Territory-wide labour difficulties. Indeed, this led to the establishment of the Board of Inquiry. Because labourers were not forthcoming from the Highlands Labour Scheme, the Department had been forced to experiment at Bulolo and Wau with casual labour from' the neighbouring Manyamas Sub-district. 
The Ministerial Member has kept the . situation under review -and proposes to continue to do so in future. 
 The answer  to  the honourable member's question is as follows: 
An increase in the bond rate at any point of time results in increased cost to the Commonwealth only la respect of securities issued on account of the Commonwealth of increasing by one per cent per annum the rate on all bonds issued from a certain date would therefore depend entirely on the amount of bonds issued on account of the Commonwealth at the new rate. 
If, for example, all debt issued on account of the Commonwealth in the form of Treasury bonds, Special Bonds and Treasury Notes, including inscribed stock, during 1969-70 had been issued at rates one per cent per annum higher than the rates which actually applied, the additional cost to the Commonwealth in a full year would have been (3.8 million. 
If. rather, the question alludes to the cost of adding one per cent per annum to the interest rates payable on all existing debt issued on account of the Commonwealth and outstanding at, say, 30 June 1970 and domiciled in Australia (other than Treasury Bills), the amount involved over a period of one year would be approximately $19m. This takes into account Treasury bonds, Special Bonds and Treasury. Notes (including inscribed stock in each case) as evidenced by securities on issue. 
The actual cost to the Commonwealth in both cases would be reduced . to the extent that the Corrrmonwearrh held the securities as investments in its Trust Funds, as well as to the extent that recoveries were made from the States such as, for example, where the proceeds of borrowings on account of the Commonwealth were used to provide housing advances to the States. 
The answer to the honourale member's question is as follows:  1 am advised by the Commonwealth Statistician that the. subjects of production indexes and of productivity statistics as well as those of - associated matters such as quantum measures and employment and labour force statistics have been discussed' jat a number of international meetings of statisticians under varying agenda headings.  These discussions have occurred at some, of the sessions of the United Nations Statistical Commission and of its regional counterpart (e.g. at sessions of the Conference of Asian Statisticians); at some of the International Conferences of Labour Statisticians (convened by the International Labour. Office); and at some of the Conferences of (British) Commonwealth Statisticians. The Bureau of Census and Statistics has been represented at most of the meetings of the Conference of Asian Statisticians and the International Conferences of Labour Statisticians and at each of the Conferences of Commonwealth Statisticians. In keeping with Australia's membership of the United Nations Statistical Commission, the Bureau has been represented at sessions of the Commission from 1952 to 1957 and from 1960 to 1970. 
Discussions at the sessions of the United Nations Statistical Commission and at the International Conferences of Labour Statisticians have resulted in resolutions, recommendations and methodolical studies relating to production indexes and quantum measures and to employment and labour force statistics. The methodological studies in particular deal with technical problems in considerable detail. 
Production Indices. A major document concerning these is 'Studies in Methods No. 1, Index Numbers of Industrial Production', Statistical Office of the United Nations (1950). The Statistician's annual indexes of factory production are in accordance with methods set out in this document. These annual measures have been published in advance of and to some extent, in preference to monthly or quarterly measures which are necessarily less well-based. The problems inherent in the preparation of short term production indexes for Australia are continuing to receive consideration with a view to eventual publication of sufficiently reliable measures. At the 15 th session of the Statistical Commission held at New York in 1968 a resolution was adopted requesting the Secretary-General to prepare a revised version of Studies in Methods No. 1.' The Bureau was represented at this session. The revision has not yet been completed, but some relevant material concerning index numbers is contained in the 1968 publication 'A System of National Accounts' (see below). 
Productivity Statistics. An item 'Methods of statistics of productivity of labour' was on the agenda of the Seventh International Conference of Labour Statisticians held at Geneva in 1949. The Bureau was not represented at this Conference, which adopted a resolution concerning the Productivity of Labour. The main feature of this Resolution was a request that the Governing Body of the I.L.O. arrange for its staff to continue studies on statistics of labour productivity and their development. Although studies have continued and although the I.L.O. Year Book of Labour Statistics contains indices of 'Labour productivity' which have been estimated for a number of countries, no international standards have been laid down, . either for statistics of labour productivity, or for statistics of productivity. 
The Bureau has been represented at the sessions of the United Nations Statistical . Commission which were associated with - the development of the. document 'Studies in Methods Series F, No. 2, Rev. 3, A System of National Accounts', Statistical Office of the United Nations (1968). This system supplies a comprehensive and. detailed framework and guidelines for systematic and integrated statistics. In developments - currently under way and at reviews and re-basing of all relevant series, including those considered basic in productivity studies, the Bureau intends to acheive as much consistency as possible with the guidelines and options in the System of National Accounts and its developing complementary systems. Some discussion on the measurement of factor inputs and productivity is included in 'A 
System of National Accounts'. This discussion stops a long way short of suggesting standards. It states some general aims and briefly discusses the concentual and practical difficulties, but indicates that its suggestion can only be regarded as tentative until more experience has been gained. It is expected that the subject of statistics of productivity will be considered at some future sessions of the United Nations Statistical Commission. 
 The answer to the. honourable member's question is as. follows: 
The Acting Commonwealth Statistician has supplied the following information in reply to the honourable member's question - 
Particulars of road traffic accidents which occur outside' and 'inside' built-up areas are available for Victoria only. In that state, ' during the year ended 31 December 1969, there were 546 fatal accidents in built-up areas and 537 'outside built-up areas. During the same period injury accidents which . occurred. ..inside built-up,areas numbered 12,881 while those outside builtup arias numbered 2,763. 
The only dissection for which details of road traffic accidents can be provided- on a- basts which is common' to all States is. a break-down between (i) metropolitan area and (ii) rest of Slate. This information, for the year ended , '31 December 1969, is shown in the following tableV . ' 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 

 The Acting Commonwealth Statistician has supplied the following information in reply to tha honourable member's question- " 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
This advice is based on a ruling given by the Commissioner of Taxation who is responsible for the administration of the income tax law. 
No. As the purpose of the grant is to offset  a  reduction in income from wool growing during the year ended 30th June 1970, the inclusion of the grants in assessable income is consistent with long-standing income tax principles. 
No. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The following information has been provided by Qantas Airways Ltd. The amount of sales tax payable by the Company because of the repeal of the specific exemption of goods for their use is estimated at $400,000 in the year ending 31st March 1971 and approximately $1,500,000 in the year ending 31st March 1972. Taking into account the depreciation over several years of the cost of some of the equipment on which tax has been or will be paid, the effect in those two years on profits before income tax is estimated at $300,000 and approximately $750,000 respectively. The effect on profits net of income tax would be substantially less. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
No. As stated by my predecessor on 23 February 1971 in answer to a question without notice by the Honourable Member, an outline of a scheme to control the activities of general insurance companies has been prepared and is currently under consideration by the Government. The scheme will apply to companies conducting all kinds of insurance other than life insurance and not only to those involved in motor insurance. It has not proved practicable to introduce legislation during the present Session, but it is hoped that legislation will be ready for introduction during the Budget Session. 
(a) Insurance companies which have been placed in the bands of liquidators, both official and provisional, during the last five years are set out below. Whilst each company was engaged in motor vehicle insurance this was not necessarily the only form of insurance business undertaken: 
Cambridge Insurance Co. Pty Ltd (In liquidation) 
Mid-Pacific and International Insurance Co. Pty Ltd (In liquidation) 
East Australian Insurance Co. Ltd (in liquidation) 
Bonus Benefit Insurances (Underwriters) Pty Ltd (In liquidation) 
The Oxford Insurance Co. Pty Ltd (In liquidation) 
Travellers' Insurance Corporation Ltd (In liquidation) 
Riverina Insurance Co. Ltd (In liquidation) 
Property Accident Commercial and Executive Insurance Co. Ltd (In liquidation) 
Motor Marine and General Insurance Co. Ltd* 
Vehicle and General Insurance Co. (Aust.) Ltd* 
The Country Traders' Mutual Insurance Ltd* 
* In provisional liquidation. 
The Insurance Act 1932-1966 does not apply to insurance brokers operating solely within Australia and accordingly I have no official information on any such brokers which may have been placed in liquidation. No insurance brokers carrying on insurance business under the legislation, that is brokers who transact part or all of their business overseas, have gone into liquidation. 
(b) The information requested is not available; the Insurance Act does not require the furnishing of information other than that relating to the system of deposits and in any event I understand that even in those cases where official liquidators have been appointed the process of determining claims has yet to be completed. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth Government did not borrow from the Reserve Bank to finance an advance to the Australian Wheat Board in 1969. On 31st March 1970, the Commonwealth borrowed an amount of $250,230,000 for that purpose on the security of Treasury Notes issued to the Reserve Bank, and on 31 March 1971 an amount of $190,000,000 was similarly borrowed. 
Treasury Notes do not bear interest but are sold at discounted prices which give effective yields to the investor which are equivalent, in income terms, to interest. Since 31st March 1970 the prices and yields of Treasury Notes, expressed as percentages, have been as follows: - 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. The cost of borrowings by the Commonwealth from the Reserve Bank for the purpose of making  loans to the  Australian Wheat Board has been in excess of the interest paid by the Board on such loans. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as  fololws 
Organisations which are exempt from income tax include religious, scientific, charitable and public educational institutions, trade unions and associations of employers and employees registered under an Act relating to the settlement of industrial disputes, public hospitals and hospitals which are carried on by associations otherwise than for the purposes of profit or gain to their individual members. 
Religious institutions, public benevolent institutions, public hopitals and non-profit hospitals are exempt from pay-roll tax in respect of wages paid to their employees. 
No information is available as to the classes of persons employed by organisations which qualify for tax exemptions or to their rates of pay. 
and (3) Where it is established that an organisation is exempt from income tax it is the administrative practice of the Commissioner of Taxation not to require lodgment of returns. The same procedure is followed in relation to organisations which are exempt from pay-roll tax. 
No statistics are available that would enable reliable estimates to be made of the gain to revenue which would result if existing income tax and pay-roll tax exemptions were removed. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
For income tax purposes, there is a fundamental distinction between receipts of a' capital nature which are not subject to tax and those of an income nature which are liable to tax in the hands of the recipient. A lump sum paid as compensation for a specific injury is a capital receipt and accordingly does not attract income tax. On the other hand, periodical payments made to replace earnings lost through disablement or injury possess the character of income and are liable to tax. 
A retired miner who receives a pension, e.g., under the New South Wales Workers' Compensation (Dust Diseases) Act, is liable to tax on that income. However, if he is aged 65 years or over, he may be entitled to the income tax concessions available to aged persons generally. 
Statistics that would enable a reliable estimate to be made of the cost of exempting from income tax pensions received by retired dusted miners for permanent impairment of health are no available. 
The question of amending the law to exempt periodical payments of an income nature from tax will be kept under review. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Income tax is imposed on the taxable income derived annually by every taxpayer as determined in accordance with the provisions of the Income Tax Assessment Act 
The taxable income is ordinarily calculated by deducting all allowable deductions from the gross assessable income. However, where any business carried on in Australia is controlled by nonresidents, and it appears to the Commissioner of Taxation that the business produces no taxable income or less than the amount of taxable income which might be expected to arise from that business, the Commissioner is empowered by section 136 to impose tax on a taxable income of such amount of the total receipts of the business as the Commissioner determines. 
and &lt;4) Subject to certain specific exceptions which do not affect the present enquiry, the Commissioner is prohibited from disclosing any information relating to the affairs of particular taxpayers. For this reason, it is not possible to furnish answers to these questions. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A specific provision of the income tax law requires the inclusion in a taxpayer's assessable income of the profit arising from the sale by the taxpayer of any property acquired by him for the purpose of profit-making by sale, or from carrying on or carrying out any profit-making undertaking or scheme. The law draws no distinction between a person who acquires rural land for the purpose of profit-making by sale and one who buys any other kind of property for the same purpose. A profit resulting from the sale of rural land is, therefore, assessable income if the taxpayer's dominant purpose, at the time of acquiring the property, was to make a profit by reselling it or if the acquisition of the property was part of -a profit-making undertaking or scheme. 
Where primary production is carried out on land acquired for re-sale at a profit, the taxpayer is treated as a primary producer pending the disposal of the property and is entitled to deductions for expenditure on pest extermination, the preparation of the land for agriculture, water conservation and certain other outgoings designed to improve the productivity of the land. Deductions are also allowed for fencing erected on land subject to the ravages of animal pests or on land adversely affected by naturally occurring deposits of mineral salt. 
Although the deductions allowed for outgoings incurred in improving the property are again taken into account in determining the eventual profit or loss on sale, the law contains a provision which ensures that the total tax saving resulting from the expenditure does not exceed the amount of the expenditure. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. The Bureau of Census and Statistics has recently completed a study to determine whether a Household Expenditure Survey would be feasible in Australia and would supply results which would warrant the work and expense estimate to be required. I have been advised by the Statistician that the study shows that successful surveys of household expenditure and income could be carried out. The Statistician has also advised that he can not for the time being, without suspending other important projects already entered upon, allocated the skilled resources necessary to proceed with such a survey. On present expectations, it is unlikely that the further necessary preparatory work could be taken up before June 1972 at the earliest. The economy measures have not greatly affected this position. 
Many countries conducted official surveys of family or household incomes and expenditure, and it is understood that the results of such surveys are useful in connection with welfare policy and administration. 
The matter will be considered as soon as it appears that the necessary resources could be allocated to this project. 
I move: 
That the  Bill be now  read a  second  time. 
In doing so I present the Budget proposals. 
Amongst these are important proposals to improve social service and repatriation benefits, to provide new forms of assistance for rural industries, notably wool, and to increase considerably our expenditure on defence. There will be minor tax concessions which, like the social service proposals, are oriented towards the claims of children and students. 
We will also bring down measures to increase revenues and charges. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill contains details of proposed appropriations of the Consolidated Revenue Fund in 1971-72 totalling $710,462,000 for expenditure on (a) the construction of public works and buildings; (b) the acquisition of sites and buildings; (c) advances and loans; (d) items of plant and equipment which are clearly definable as capital expenditure; (e) grants to the States under section 96 of the Constitution; and (f) new policies not authorised by special legislation. 
Included in the above total is an amount of $25m as an advance to the Treasurer for the purposes set out in the Bill. The proposed expenditures in this Bill were dealt with as appropriate in my Budget Speech. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
-I present for the information of honourable members the following papers in connection with the Budget for 1971-72: 
Estimates of Receipts and Summary of Estimated Expenditure for the year ending 30 June 1972. 
Commonwealth Payments to or for the States 1971-72. 
 The answer to the hon ourable member's question is as follows: 
No taxation statistics are available that would enable an accurate estimate to be made of the gain to income tax revenue that would result if payments in respect of personal insurance policies were not allowed as income tax deductions. However, using published statistics of premiums received by insurance companies in respect of life insurance and personal accident insurance business in Australia and of employees' contributions to superannuation funds, in conjunction with statistics of income tax deductions allowed under section 82h of the Income Tax Assessment Act, a broad estimate has been made to the order of the revenue forgone by the allowance of income tax deductions for payments in respect of life and personal accident insurance. On this basis, it is estimated that income tax revenue would be approximately $125m greater if payments on life and personal accident insurance policies in respect of taxpayers, their spouses and children were not allowed as income tax deductions. 
and (3) Statistics of taxpayers who were allowed deductions for payments in respect of personal insurance policies only are not available. However, statistics have been compiled of deductions allowed to taxable individuals under section 82h of the Income Tax Assessment Act, i.e., of deductions allowed for payments in respect of life, sickness and accident insurance premiums and for payments to a friendly society, superannuation, sustentation or similar fund. The number of taxable individuals who were allowed deductions under section 82h in the most recent years for which these statistics were compiled are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
None. 
' (a) See answer to part (1) 
As donations to appeals for overseas relief in the past 5 years have not been allowed as deductions for income tax purposes, there has been no cost to revenue. 
No official statistics are available on which to base an estimate of the figures sought. The 
Australian Council for Overseas Aid has estimated that overseas aid contributions by Australian voluntary agencies amounted to some $14m in 1970. The greater part of this figure represents expenditure by church missionary agencies, being moneys collected by churches in Australia and expended overseas. 
A meaningful estimate cannot be made of the cost to revenue of allowing deductions in respect of the total amount of voluntary aid contributions because of the varying nature of the sources from which they come and of the means by which they are raised. The cost of allowing deductions for cash donations at current levels to non-church voluntary agencies is estimated to be about$1.2m. 
The question of allowing deductions in respect of donations for overseas relief purposes is being kept under review. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Acting Commonwealth Statistician has supplied the following information in reply to the honourable member's question: 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It has for some time been the intention of the Commonwealth Statistician to proceed with the compilation of input-output tables for 1968-69 as soon as resources could be spared from the 1962- 63 project. Some preliminary work has commenced on the 1968-69 tables but the compilation of input-output tables is a time-consuming task requiring highly trained staff and it will be several years before the 1968-69 tables are completed. It is impossible to give any precise publication date. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) In summary, the investments of the Superannuation Board made during each of the last 10 financial years ended 30th June 1970, together with the related ranges of interest rates, are shown in the Table below. 
The Superannuation Board, which includes a member elected by the contributors, who is a party to all investment decisions, enters into private negotiations when a loan is to be secured by a mortgage of land or real property. Such negotiations are confidential between the Board and its client and reflect the established practice for lending institutions such as the Superannuation Board. Disclosure of the details of these investments would interfere with the proper functioning of the Board. The Board does not, therefore, publish details of individual loans. 
Details of investments other than mortgage loans as at 30th June each year are advised to the Parliament annually in the Treasurer's Statement of Receipts and Expenditure, but do not include the date on which each loan is made. This information, over a period of 10 years, would involve extensive analysis of records of a large number of investments which are not normally summarised in the form provided for in the question. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth Statistician's latest published estimates of Australia's balance of payments on current account for the years 1960-61 to 1969-70 are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In the period referred to. it has been the policy of the Federal Reserve Bank of the United States to bring about a rapid increase in the quantity of money in the economy. This has resulted in a general decline in interest rates in the United States. The objective of the policy, as T understand it, has been to produce conditions conducive to a general revival of economic activity in a nation which has been experiencing a level of unemployment which exceeded 6 per cent. One of the results of this increase in the quantity of money has been to make available a greater volume of funds to the housing industry and this has assisted in producing a revival in activity in that industry. The policy, however, is essentially one of general application, designed to stimulate overall economic activity. 
Yes. Figures published by the Commonwealth Statistician on 3rd May show that in the March quarter of 1971 private dwelling commencements totalled 29,550 compared with 32,214 in the March quarter of 1970. 
It should be noted that private dwelling commencements were at a seasonally-adjusted record level in the March quarter 1970. The subsequent decline has been associated with a number of factors, including tight monetary conditions. The increase in housing loan rates was part of the general rise in interest rates in the economy associated with these financial conditions. However, it is not possible- to single out interest rates as the cause of, or even a major factor in, the fall in commencements. 
While the Government would not wish to see the current level of interest rates continue longer than is necessary, it would be inappropriate at this time for the Government to direct the Reserve Bank to arrange a reduction in those housing loan interest rates subject to the Bank's direct control. 
The level of interest rates is determined basically by the demand for and supply of funds in the economy. If the interest rates on housing loans were artificially lowered, the consequential limitations on the ability of housing finance institutions to compete for an adequate share of savings could result in a marked falling-ofT in the funds available for housing. This would, of course, be inimical to the acquisition of homes, by young people. At the same time, a reduction in the general level of interest rates would, in current economic circumstances, involve the very serious risk of adding to inflationary pressures, and this too could ultimately operate to the disadvantage of potential home buyers. While the cost of borrowed money is an important factor to potential home buyers, it is relatively less significant than the actual cost of a home which, of course, could increase significantly if inflationary pressures, in the economy were allowed to go unchecked. 
The' answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: - 
' Where premises are used by a taxpayer in gaining or producing his assessable income or in carrying on a business for that purpose, payments made by the taxpayer for sewerage and water services and the removal of effluent and sullage are deductible for income tax purposes except to the extent that they are of a capital, private or domestic nature. 
In relation to private premises, the income tax law authorises the allowance of deductions to a taxpayer for the payment of rates which are annually assessed and for which he is personally liable. To the extent, therefore, that charges for sewerage and water services and the removal of effluent and -sullage are incorporated in such rates, a deduction is allowed. However, payments made to a contractor for these services or charges imposed by the local authority independently of the annual levy for general rates do not qualify for deduction. 
In general, outgoings of a private or domestic nature are not allowable deductions. Rates paid on private premises fall within this category and the allowance of a deduction for expenditure of this kind represents a concession granted only when specific conditions are satisfied. Against this background, the denial of a deduction where the relevant tests are not met is not considered to create an anomaly; an amendment of the law would be necessary to widen the scope of the existing provisions. 
Having regard to the history of the present concession, it could be argued that the proper way of correcting the anomaly which some people see would be to withdraw the concession. 
No statistics are available of income tax deductions allowed in respect of payment made for sewerage and water services. Statistics of deductions allowed to taxable individuals for rates and land taxes on non-income-producing property were compiled for the 1963-66 income year, but no information is available that would enable payments in respect of sewerage and water services included in these deductions to be determined. 
The information required to make a reliable estimate of the annual cost to income tax revenue of allowing deductions for all payments for the removal of effluent and sullage is not available. 
No. See answer to part 2. 
As it is understood that in many cases local by-laws already require the removal of sullage and effluent, the position would not be affected significantly by the allowance of an income tax incentive of the kind suggested by the honourable member. 
This matter is under consideration. It is not a simple matter. It requires discussion with the lending authorities, principally the banks. In addition to those discussions there is interdepartmental consideration. When the appropriate time comes a statement will be made in relation to this matter. 
I present the following paper: 
Statement for the year 1970-71 of Heads of Expenditure and the amounts charged thereto pursuant to section 36a of the Audit Act 1901-1969 (Advance to the Treasurer). 
Ordered that the statement be taken into consideration in Committee of the whole House at the next sitting. 
I do not want to say too much about the current exchange situation. Really it is to be described as an international exchange crisis. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information previously supplied (Hansard, 15th May 1970, page 2331) on securities on issue, annual interest liability and capital repayments has been brought up to date in the tables which follow. Details of the bases and sources of the information were given in the previous answer. 
Statistics are not yet available to allow the information on local and semi-government auth orities previously supplied to be brought up to date: That information was taken from a publication entitled 'Local and Semi-government Authorities Debt' (covering the period 1957-58 to 1967- 68) which is published from time to time by the Commonwealth Statistician. The next issue of this publication with later figures will probably not be made before November next. ' 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Acting Commonwealth Statistician has provided the accompanying tables in answer to the honourable member's question. The figures differ from those supplied in answer to previous questions asked by the honourable member on the same subject on account of revisions to estimates and a reclassification of the transactions of the Australian Broadcasting Commission, which is no longer treated as a public trading enterprise. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Ihe Commissioner of Taxation has supplied the following estimates of payroll tax paid by State semi-government and local authorities in 1969-70. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The figures requested by the honourable member, which have been provided by the Acting Commonwealth Statistician, are set out in the table below. The figures for 1968-69 are also given because of revisions to the figures supplied previously (Hansard, 12th June 1970, page 3683) for expenditure by Tasmania, and consequently by the six States combined, in that year. The' honourable member's attention is drawn to the comments on these figures which accompanied my previous reply to him on this matter referred to above. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Acting Commonwealth Statistician has supplied the following information in reply to the honourable member's question: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Following a general review of the position, the Commissioner of Taxation has decided that contract broiler growers should be accepted as carrying on a business of primary production for income tax purposes. Contract broiler growers will also be entitled to the special depreciation deductions which apply to structural improvements situated on land used for agricultural or pastoral pursuits. In view of the Commissioner's ruling, the question of amending the relevant provision of the income tax law does not arise. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Following a general review of the position, the Commissioner of Taxation has decided that contract broiler growers should be accepted as carrying on a business of primary production for income tax purposes. Contract broiler growers will also be entitled to the special depreciation deductions which apply to structural improvements situated on land used for agricultural or pastoral pursuits. 
and (3) In view of the Commissioner's ruling, the question of amending the relevant provisions of the income tax law does not arise. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The details requested in respect of the Commonwealth and each of the States, where they are available, are set out in the following table. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Because A.C.T. residents lodge their returns in various States depending on the source of their incomes, and these cases are not always segregated, the particular information requested is not available. However, the returns of most A.C.T. taxpayers are lodged in Canberra and processed in the Sydney office of the Commonwealth Taxation Office. Approximately 50,000 A.C.T. refund cheques had been issued by 1st May 1971. On that date, the Sydney office was holding about 700 returns of A.C.T. taxpayers not subject to provisional tax for which assessments had not been issued. Assessments have since been issued in all but 48 of these cases. The balance will be issued shortly. 
The assessments in these cases did not issue before 1st May for a variety of reasons. Many of the returns were received only a short time before 1st May.In other cases, additional information was required before assessments could issue or enquiries had to be made regarding lost tax stamp sheets and group certificates. 
See answer to (1). 
The Prime Minister has given an appropriate answer to the first part of the honourable member's question and I shall not pursue it. As to the second part of his question, in July we had record reserves of 2.3 billion dollars and we also had a balance on the payments of $600m which enables us to face the problems of international monetary movements with a great deal of strength. 
My recollection is that the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund expenditure is included in the totality of the Defence vote. 1 did not appreciate the full import of the honourable gentleman's question. I will look at the question in detail and make sure that he gets a considered answer. 
I have seen newspaper comments to the effect that the Australian Council of Trade Unions wished to establish consumer credit buying and a number of other things. One of the interesting factors in this was the suggestion that the ACTU not only would welcome but also indeed was negotiating for financial aid for these activities from the West German trade union movement and from the Israeli trade union movement. 
Pursuant to section 18 of the National Debt Sinking Fund Act 1966-1967 I present the 48th Annual Report on the operations of the National Debt Commission for the year ended 30th June 1971. 
The Government is continually giving consideration to what can be done to assist those people living in decentralised areas and those who are living in rural areas far from capital cities. I think it would be of great benefit to the honourable gentleman and to all honourable members if I were to prepare a statement from details which I have had compiled recently as to the degree of assistance that does come from the Commonwealth to people in these areas in a variety of ways. I will write to the honourable gentleman and provide him with the details. 
Question time is not a time for philosophical dissertations. I have listened to the honourable gentleman's question and I will examine it. However, I would not want him to believe that, because I am willing to examine his question, any decision made will necessarily be the one he wants. I will communicate with him when I have examined the question. 
The honourable gentleman has asked me to provide him with information which would take a considerable time to give. Therefore, I do not propose to answer the question at any great length. The essential points are these: The  President  of the United States of America made a statement, the result of which has caused some uncertainty in the world exchange market and as to parities between countries. The second point is that when an individual country finds that other countries through their exchange movements move away from it, it is not possible for that country to remain static relatively. This is because other countries have moved away from it and therefore that country cannot be static. 
We were aware of the situation that looked as though it would be some considerable time before the parities of the world currencies settled down. Therefore, we were determined that we would take no long term action which would commit us into the future until we knew all the circumstances which we needed to know before we took a decision. 
However, having regard to the fact that no country can remain static it was necessary for us to take a short term, interim decision. After close examination we came to the conclusion that what we ought to do is to retain our parity with sterling. Sterling, by a decision of the United Kingdom Government, had been allowed to what is called 'float' on the market. We stayed with that currency. The result has been that sterling relative to the dollar has appreciated somewhere between 2 per cent and 3 per cent. It follows, therefore, that the Australian currency has appreciated with sterling to the same extent. Also, there has been a corresponding movement of the Australian currency with those currencies which have not moved. At this stage the position is not greatly changed. This has been described as a crisis and one tends to think of a crisis as drawing to a point and then having something happen but this should more properly be described as a plateau. 
I do not diminish the seriousness of it but just illustrate the time frame. The time frame is continuing. For our part we hope we will be able to maintain our interim decision so that when the time comes we will take a long term decision and as information comes to us and as the situation clarifies we shall be able to take that decision. The final point I wish to make is that the relationship of one country to another in an exchange sense is vital to its economic and trading interests and when we do take our decision we will, as the Prime Minister said in his statement, take a decision that is in the best interests of the country's economy and the welfare of its people. 
I present the following paper: 
Taxation Statistics 1969-70, dated 1st September 1971, supplement to the Forty-ninth Report ot the Commissioner of Taxation. 
Ordered that the paper be printed. 
I was asked a question on this point only a matter of a few days or weeks ago; at any rate in this session. I then said that discussions were proceeding. The matter is being examined within the Treasury by expert officers and by myself as a result of consultation with them. I am unable to give any indication at this stage when it will be introduced. That is the essential part of the honourable member's question, and I regret that I cannot answer it. 
They do not. The last part of the honourable gentleman's question is totally misconceived. The Budget strategy adopted this course: The Government felt that its most important function was to take leadership in the fight against inflation and that it should do what it could in its fiscal policy. The Government recognised that the inflationary pressures that we faced were of a cost-push variety. The Government recognised also that to deal with this problem was a difficult enough task but that to allow a situation where demand inflation was superimposed upon cost-push inflation would exacerbate the problem immensely and would not be a proper course of action to take. Therefore, the Budget strategy was designed to make sure, insofar as Government policy could do it, that we would not see the potential for demand actually occur to superimpose itself upon cost-push inflation. 
We were under no misapprehension as to the level of demand currently and, if the Leader of the Opposition will read the Budget Speech properly, he will find stated there clearly in shorter words what I have been saying now. We knew what the level of demand was. We took action which would give leadership in cost-push but which would leave us free - that is, the Government and the community as a whole - to tackle a single problem and not have an exacerbation of demand pull on top of cost-push. 
 I have seen the surveys and they do not justify the alarmist reactions. The rate of private capital investment from January to June of 1971 represented a 36 per cent annual rate of increase seasonally adjusted over the earlier 6 months. I put this question: Could we reasonably acquiesce in an increase from July to December this year of the same proportions? The answer must be no, because our resources would not stand it. In fact, we do not have any figures at present but we do have estimates. The first estimate is one made by the Associated Chambers of Manufactures of Australia, and the Bank of New South Wales. It must be remembered in relation to that survey that the people surveyed are members of an organisation which is publicly making clear its view that the Government ought to relax its restraints. 
The other survey is that of the Commonwealth Statistician dealing with private capital investment in general. This shows a forecast of an increase in this current half year running through to December at a 14 per cent annual rate increase over the last 6 months, the last 6 months being a very high rate of 36 per cent. But put in simple perspective, the increase estimated for this 6 months is in fact an increase of 23 per cent over the corresponding 6 months of last year. Therefore it will be clear that there is no warrant for the present spate of alarmist reactions, but if they continue they can do harm. There is an undoubted underlying strength in the economy and as I said in my Budget Speech: 
We will be keeping the whole situation under very close review throughout the year so as to make any adjustments in policy which might prove to be necessary. 
I reiterate that statement now. 
I apologise to the honourable gentleman, but I believe that his question does not take account of the arrangements which were concluded between the Commonwealth and the States in relation to payroll tax when the States took the authority to impose payroll tax. We had discussions with the States as to what should be the situation for local government. In those negotiations with the States we undertook that we would forgo the amount of money which would have been recovered. So the States will not lose and Commonwealth revenues have met the position for local government, except insofar as the trading operations of local government are concerned. Against that background I will look at the honourable gentleman's question and see whether there is anything I should add to what I have said. 
Australia has, I am glad to say, good reserves, and with the high level of our reserves we are able to  face the international monetary problem with confidence. The second point to make is that we have a strong resilience, an underlying strength, in our economy, and no matter what may be said that remains true upon all the indices that can be examined. In these circumstances, with Australia as a country which is hungry for capital in order to develop the resources that we have, we welcome the inflow of capital. Furthermore Australia is a country which attracts investments from all over the world simply because of the strength of our economy, the stability of our government and the assurance which the investors overseas believe will be there for their investments in Australia. As the honourable gentleman knows, I am sure, a statement was made by me at the weekend in which we released capital transfers into and out of Australia. We will of course, through the Reserve Bank, be keeping a surveillance on the inflow of capital to Australia, for while we welcome long term capital we do not want to have capital of a speculative kind which could create problems for us and even be harmful. As there are opportunities to see clarity emerging in the international situation I will of course make statements for the information of honourable members. 
The tail end of the question is quite an irresponsible comment and has no warrant. I regret that it is indicative of a failure to understand the principles with which the honourable gentleman is wrestling. It should be clear to all honourable gentlemen, and it should be clear not only to the broad Australian public but also to those people overseas who have money to invest, that Australia welcomes the inflow of capital to assist in the development of our resources. That is our policy and it remains our policy. I have no doubt that that policy pursued is in the great interests of the welfare of our economy and of the Australian people. 
I do not have a clear recollection of what was in the article by Professor Colin Clark which, I think the honourable member said, appeared on 5th May. I remember that at the time I did read it. I think therefore I should not try to discuss it particularly but should deal just with the concept. The concept, as I see it, is that as money comes into Australia for the development of our resources it benefits the whole of the economy. What the honourable gentleman says is that the cost of that capital will be too great. Well, this is a matter of judgment. 1 do not think that it is too great. I think that the benefits that we obtain from it are manifest in the development of the infrastructure of our economy over the years. We are in 1971 in a new decade. But in the decade of the sixties we had in Australia growth of which we could be proud. We had a real growth with a broadening and diversity of our manufacturing capacity and exports of our manufactured goods. We had in those days a tolerable inflation rate. I use the word tolerable' deliberately. We did not like that inflation, but it was tolerable. All this points to the reality of the combination of the resources of Australia, both physical and human, with the hungry attitudes that we have to use capital for the development of those resources. I do not share the view that was implicit in the question asked by the honourable gentleman. 
Fill AIRCRAFT 
I move: 
That the Bill  be  now read a second time. 
This Bill, with 2 other taxation Bills 1 shall shortly be introducing, results from the agreement between the Commonwealth and the States, at the June Premiers' Conference, for the transfer of pay-roll tax to the States. These Bills give effect to the transfer itself, and are being introduced now with a view to their speedy passage in order to facilitate the transfer of the pay-roll tax to the States. This is necessary because of the State governments' budgetary planning. 
At the June meeting the Commonwealth accepted the States' need for some greater flexibility and freedom in revenue-raising. The Commonwealth also indicated that, after careful consideration, it had confirmed its previous conviction that it would not be advisable to re-open the field of personal income tax to the States. Nevertheless, it accepted the view previously expressed by the States that they needed access to a new area of growth taxation to assist them in financing the services which they provided. In these circumstances, the Commonwealth offered, and the States accepted, the transfer of pay-roll tax as a useful addition to State resources for revenue-raising purposes. The Commonwealth made it clear that the transfer of pay-roll tax would have to be accompanied by an offsetting reduction in the financial assistance grants payable to the States, although the extent of the reduction will, for various reasons be less than the addition to State revenues resulting from the imposition of pay-roll tax. 
I shall be introducing separately, as soon as possible, what is therefore to be regarded as complementary legislation to give effect to the reduction in the amount the States would otherwise have received in the financial assistance grants for 1971- 72, and I shall explain in detail at that time the precise arrangements which we have come to with the States in that re spect. I should also make it clear that, while payroll tax is being transferred to the States, the Commonwealth will continue to operate the export incentive scheme so as to give exporters the same benefits, based on the existing rate of 2 per cent, as they now enjoy. Separate legislation to provide for this will also be introduced in the near future. 
I turn now to the purposes of the Pay Roll Tax (Termination of Commonwealth Tax) Bill. Under the Agreement reached with the States, the Commonwealth will cease to impose payroll tax except in relation to the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory; all States will bring down legislation under which they will impose and collect their own payroll taxes. The date the Commonwealth will vacate the payroll tax field will coincide with the date of commencement of the legislation imposing the tax in each of the States and in the Commonwealth territories. Provided the legislation to give effect to the agreement has been enacted by the Commonwealth Parliament and by all State Parliaments in time for it to be done, it is proposed that the payroll tax will be effectively transferred as from 1st September 1971, enabling the States to receive the first of their monthly payroll tax collections in October 1971. 
The main purpose of this Bill is to terminate the operation of the Commonwealth payroll tax levied under the provisions of the Pay-Roll Tax Assessment Act 1941-1969 and the Pay-Roll Tax Act 1941-1966, thereby clearing the way for the introduction of separate payroll taxes for the States and the Commonwealth territories. Following its enactment, the measure will commence on a date to be fixed by proclamation, the proclaimed date being 1st September 1971 or the first day of a subsequent month. The Bill provides that the existing Commonwealth payroll tax will cease to apply from the day immediately preceding the proclaimed commencement date. 
The Bill proposes also to terminate the payroll tax export rebate scheme with effect from the close of the 1970-71 financial year. I have already foreshadowed the later introduction of a separate Bill to provide a system of direct grants based on exports until 30th June 1973 when the present rebate scheme was due to expire. To facilitate the transfer of the tax to the States, the Bill contains provisions to authorise the Commissioner of Taxation to furnish information to the authorities who will administer the State payroll tax laws. The provisions of the Bill are explained in detail in an explanatory memorandum being circulated to honourable members. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
 I move: 
That the  Bill  be now read a second time. 
This is the second of 3 taxation Bills resulting from the agreement reached at the Premiers' Conference to transfer payroll tax to the States. The Bill contains provisions for the administration, assessment and collection of pay-roll tax in the Australian Capital Territory (including Jervis Bay) and the Northern Territory and will come into operation on the date fixed by proclamation as the commencement date of the Pay-Roll Tax (Termination of Commonwealth Tax) Act 1971. The Commissioner of Taxation will be responsible for administering the payroll tax in the Commonwealth Territories. 
The provisions of the bill affecting the liability of employers to tax have been modelled on the liability provisions of the existing Commonwealth payroll tax law. They are substantially uniform with the corresponding provisions of the legislation proposed to be enacted by each State Parliament and will set out the basis of liability to payroll tax in the Territories while preventing double taxation of wages by the Commonwealth and the States. Broadly stated, an employer will be liable for tax under the provisions of the Bill on wages paid or payable for services rendered Wholly within the Territories, and on wages paid or payable in the territories unless those wages are for services rendered wholly within one State. Under the present Commonwealth law, an employer who is liable for payroll tax is required to lodge returns of wages paid each month and to pay the tax due on each return. A statutory exemption from tax of wages up to $20,800 per annum, equivalent to $1,733.33 per month, is allowed. 
With the entry of the states into the payroll tax field, the overall exemption allowable to an employer will remain unchanged at $1,733.33 per month. An employer who is liable to lodge returns under this Bill and is also liable to tax in one or more States will be entitled to claim a proportion of the overall exemption against the wages liable to tax in the Commonwealth Territories. This proportion will ordinarily be ascertained by comparing the wages payable in the Territories with the wages payable throughout Australia. To meet the case of employers whose monthly wages fluctuate above and below the exemption level, the Bill provides for an annual adjustment of the tax payable by an employer, in line with the existing Commonwealth law. 
The provisions relating to the collection and recovery of tax and other machinery provisions of the Bill substantially re-enact the corresponding provisions of the Commonwealth payroll tax law. However, the objections and appeals provisions have been modified to bring them into line with the relevant provisions of the income tax law. An employer who is dissatisfied with a decision or assessment of the Commissioner will be allowed 60 days for lodgment of an objection, instead of the present 42 days, after service of notice of the decision or assessment. Similarly the period within which an employer may request that a decision by the Commissioner on an objection be referred for review by a taxation board of review will be 60 days instead of 30 days as under the present law. 
The Bill contains the usual provisions imposing obligations of secrecy as to taxpayers' payroll tax affairs on the Commissioner and his officers. At the same time it will authorise the interchange of information with the payroll tax authorities of the States and will permit the disclosure of information to the Commonwealth Statistician for the purposes of the Census and Statistics Act. The Statistician and his officers in turn are bound by the secrecy provisions of that Act. The technical features of the Bill are dealt with in the explanatory memorandum circulated to honourable members and I therefore do not discuss these details at this time. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to impose the pay-roll tax payable by employers in the Australian Capital Territory (including Jervis Bay) and the Northern Territory, and to declare the rate at which the tax is to be paid. The Bill proposes that tax be payable at the rate of  2i  per cent of the wages subject to tax under the provisions of the Pay-Roll Tax (Territories) Assessment Bill 1971, after deduction of the statutory exemption allowable in accordance with that Bill, The rate is the same as that at which die existing Commonwealth pay-roll tax has been imposed and will apply as from the commencement date to be proclaimed for the purposes of the Pay-Roll Tax (Termination of Commonwealth Tax) Bill 1971. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The secrecy provisions of the Sales Tax Assessment Act preclude the disclosure of this information. 
No special exemptions were given  to  the syndicates and sales tax was paid by the syndicates in full compliance with the sales tax Acts. 
I  do  not know the names of all of the persons or interests who formed these syndicates. 
Yes, I have received numerous requests for consideration. I received them before the Budget was formulated. I considered them before the Budget was framed. In the course of preparing the Budget we had to take decisions as to what degree of relief from taxation we could give in various areas. There was relief in certain areas about which the honourable member will know, but in our considerations we did not feel able to grant this one. 
It has been reported to me that the honourable gentleman made a powerful speech yesterday. I confess to him that the speeches of honourable members are reported to me in note form and examination is being made of any suggestion made by any honourable member in relation to the Budget debate. I will be examining the honourable member's speech in that context, and when I have done that I will communicate with the honourable gentleman. I do not want to anticipate what the result of my examination will be but I would remind him that to adopt such a course would very considerably redistribute the incidence of taxation within the community and therefore is a much bigger question than it at first appears. 
I appreciate the kindly references the honourable gentleman has made and 1 remind him that such references do not in any way hide the rather facetious nature of his question, nor do they hide that the question does not report what the Reserve Bank annual report and the Treasury White Paper stated. It is universally condemned when a person quotes something but does not complete the quotation. That is why the oath in a court refers to the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth. What the honourable member is doing is attempting to extract some basis on which to prop up a question which is designed to show how smart he is. Others will judge whether or not he is smart. The causes of inflation have been argued by myself, by the Reserve Bank and in the Treasury White Paper and there is a complete unanimity of view among all three. The cause of inflation in Australia today is essentially a cost-push pressure and I said in the Budget Speech that this cost- push pressure is caused mainly, though not wholly, by wage pressures. On many occasions I have spoken about, the need for greater competitive forces in our economy and I remind the honourable gentleman that I had the honour of introducing into this House the Trade Practices Act. It is on the basis of the Trades Practices Act that we have now before us the prospect of a greater free flow of competitive forces in our economy. It so happens that I am proud of the part I played in that process and I will continue to play it. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2) and (3) The Acting Commonwealth Statistician has advised that the statistical collections conducted by the Bureau of Census and Statistics do not obtain information in respect of separate categories of marine insurance. Information is collected only in respect of marine insurance in total and figures are published in the statistical bulletin 'Australian, Fire, Marine and General Insurance Statistics' and various other publications issued by the Central and Stale offices of the Bureau. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Please see answer to Question No. 3087 (Hansard, page 2890, 6th May 1971). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2), (3) and (4) The Superannuation (Pension Increases) Bill 1971 that was introduced into the House of Representatives on 19th August 1971 makes provision for increases in existing pensions payable under the Superannuation Act 1922-1971, The Bill provides for the increases to be calculated by the notional salary method using an adjustment date of 30 June 1971. 
The notional salary method was also used to calculate the increases granted in 1961, 1963 and 1967 but, as stated in my Budget Speech on 17th August 1971, that method is complex and experience has shown that it generates anomalies and inequities between pensioners. The Government proposes to examine simpler and more equitable methods of adjustment with a view to future application on a regular basis. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The matter is still under consideration. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Parliamentary Retiring Allowances Act 1948-1968 provides a superannuation scheme for Members of Parliament. Members contribute to the scheme at the rate of11 per cent of the Parliamentary Allowance. 
I am not aware of any contributory superannuation scheme that provides for the forfeiture of so much of a retiring contributor's benefit as would cover the cost of selecting his replacement. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There have been no further meetings between Commonwealth and State officials since 18th December 1970 but discussions have been taking place between Commonwealth officials and representatives of the general insurance industry. On completion of these discussions, it may be necessary to arrange further meetings with State officials. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
On 12th May 1971 I sent a letter in the following terms to the honourable member: 
In your question on notice. Question No. 2319, you asked for information in respect of the maximum interest rates authorised by tha Loan Council for semi-governmental borrowings in the last 20 years. 
I said in my interim reply, recorded in Hansard on 23rd April 1971, that, as Chairman of the Loan Council, I had written to the other members seeking their views as to whether the information could be provided to you. 
As a result of their agreement, I am glad to say that I am now in a position to meet your request fully and I enclose a statement of the maximum rates of interest for semi-governmental borrowings authorised by the Loan Council since 1947.' 
The statement was as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2) and (3) The Superannuation (Pension Increases) Bill 1971 that was introduced into the House of Representatives on 19th August 1971 makes provision for increases in existing pensions payable under the Superannuation Act 1922-1971. The Bill provides for the increases to be calculated by the notional salary method using an adjustment date of 30th June 1971. The same method was used when increases were last oran tol 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The income tax law neither contains capital gains exemptions provisions' as suggested in the first part of the honourable member's question nor draws distinctions of the kind referred to in the second part. As to the general drift of the question, I refer the honourable member to the answer given to an earlier question by him on the same matter (Question No. 3093, Hansard 6 May 1971). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
At the Premiers' Conference on 16th June 1971 the Premier of New South Wales referred to the resolution in question as follows. 
The Ministers of all States unanimously carried a resolution that because (a) the cost of local government services is rapidly increasing; (b) the sources of revenue to local government authorities are limited; and (c) many rural areas are in a critical condition and no increases in rates are likely to be practicable in the foreseeable future, the Ministers believed firstly that additional financial resources are essential to local government and secondly that as local government is the responsibility of State governments, the annual reimbursement grants from income tax from the Common wealth to the States should include an additional element of contribution for local government finances.' 
The proposals in the resolution were discussed at that Premiers' Conference. The Commonwealth reiterated its attitude that it is a responsibility of State Governments to ensure that the revenue resources available to such authorities are sufficient to enable them to provide the various community services for which they have been made responsible under State laws. The Commonwealth explained that it provides financial assistance to State Governments to help them meet all their financial responsibilities, including their responsibility for local authority finances. 
As a result of the discussions at the Premiers' Conference additional Commonwealth assistance is to be provided to the States to assist both their revenue budgets generally and local government authorities specifically. Briefly, the Commonwealth is to transfer pay-roll tax to the States on a date to be agreed in 1971-72 on the basis that the States' financial assistance grants will be reduced to help offset the loss to Commonwealth revenue resulting from the transfer. However, the Commonwealth has agreed that the reduction in the States' grants will be somewhat less than the full loss to Commonwealth revenue. In particular, the reduction in the grants will be smaller than the loss to Commonwealth revenue by an amount equal to the pay-roll tax payable at the existing rate of 2.5 per cent in respect of non-business activities of local authorities. By this means the Commonwealth will, in effect, be bearing the cost which would otherwise be incurred by State Governments in exempting non-business activities of local authorities from payment of pay-roll tax as from the date of transfer of the tax to the States. The relief that the States will thus be able to provide to local authorities is estimated at about (6m in 1971-72 and about $8m in a full year. 
The Commonwealth also agreed at the Premiers' Conference to make the reduction in the States' grants in 1971-72 smaller than the loss to Commonwealth revenue resulting from the transfer of the tax by a further amount now estimated at about $22.4m, and, as well, to provide $40m special revenue assistance by way of a nonrecurring grant in 1971-72. The smaller reduction of about $22.4m, like that in respect of pay-roll tax on non-business activities of local authorities, will also be made to the 'base' used to determine the formula grants for 1972-73 and subsequent years, so that States will continue to benefit from both these factors in those years. 
The Commonwealth Government believes that, with the substantially improved arrangements for the payment of financial assistance grants settled at the June 1970 Premiers' Conference, with access now to a new field of taxation which they have already moved to exploit, and with the additional financial assistance provided as a result of the June 1971 Premiers' Conference, the State Governments are well placed to meet their financial responsibilities, including their responsibility for local authority finances. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  lt is not the practice of the Government to reply to questions which involve matters of policy. Nevertheless, the question of allowing income tax deductions in respect of ambulance insurance subscriptions was considered during the preparation of the 1971-72 Budget but, in the light of the overall objective of the Budget, the Government took the view that it should not propose concessions going beyond those which  'I  announced. 
Boeing 747 Aircraft  (Question No: 3467) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The' Acting Commonwealth Statistician has provided the following information. 
Compulsory third party insurance premiums receivable and claims paid in each State in each year since 1950 are shown in the following tables. Similar information is not available for the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory. 
The following table expresses claims paid as a percentage of the premiums receivable. However, the Acting Commonwealth Statistician advises that these percentages should not be regarded  as  the. percentages of premiums that are paid out  as  claims. This is because the figures shown above for premiums for each year are not adjusted to provide for premiums unearned at the end of the year, i.e., some of the amounts included  in  the premiums aggregated for  a  particular financial year are in respect of insurance cover during some or all of the subsequent year. The figures shown for claims for each year do not include  an  allowance for possible claims against that part  of  the cover relating to the subsequent year. 
I propose to make a statement to the House, hopefully tomorrow, in relation lo the totality of the discussions I have had and on the international monetary situation. But I will take the opportunity now to answer these specific points, which I will do in shorthand because it is question time and I do not want to take too much time. So far as special drawing rights are concerned, we indicated that we supported an examination through the International Monetary Fund to increase use of them, but we did point out that we do not believe that there should be an abandonment of the present world monetary system with all the benefits it has given over the last quarter of a century until we really know what would be the benefits and how they could be sustained through an SDR or international currency system. As to capital movements, I made it clear wherever I went that any solution to the international monetary problem should be on the basis that it did not restrict the freedom of the international movement of capital especially to the developing countries but also to developed countries. 
As to floating of currencies, we expressed the view that we wanted a quick settlement to the international monetary problem because if it were not quickly settled it would be likely to have a depressing effect on world trade, and world trade is the basis of world prosperity. We therefore did not condemn floating, either dirty or clean. These 2 words are used just in a slang way and are quite misleading. As to the price of gold, we made it clear that what we were looking for was a settlement of the problem and that if a settlement of the problem involved an increase in the price of gold we would not object to it; but it was not for us to tell the countries how to solve the problem we could make suggestions but it was for them to find a solution quickly. 
We are holders of gold but we are not such big holders of gold that it will be a windfall advantage to us of such dimensions that we would put that interest above a solution to the world problem, which is far more important. We made it clear that the surcharge was in danger of dampening world trade and prosperity and was a trade weapon that we wanted to see eliminated as soon as possible. 
As to the other question about whether we made any separate arrangements or indicated to Japan separate arrangements for parities between Australia and Japan, the answer is, no we did not. We emphasised the need for a multilateral solution. I now reiterate that it is in Australia's interests not to take any long term decisions until a multilateral solution is reached, for if we did we would be taking a decision in the dark that would not be in the interests of the economy or the people of Australia. We will be taking a decision in the interests of the people of Australia when all of the circumstances are known to us. I will extend my remarks on these matters when I make a statement. 
Some progress has been made, but I must tell the honourable gentleman that not enough progress has been made either to warrant me making any statement about it, or alternatively to satisfy me as to the progress because this is something whichneeds to be looked at closely. The honourable gentleman will be aware that this is a very complex and technical area and I am bound to say that the people who can discharge this function adequately with the qualities and experience needed are not easy to find and they are at present under very considerable strain. 
The honourable gentleman will remember that we are going to introduce legislation arising out of the Casuarina case and arising out of the dividend stripping case and what has happened there. Also there have been some quite marked changes in tax legislation in Germany, Canada and the United Kingdom. We have that aspect under examination also. I think that one of the prime objectives that we must have in our minds is to make the tax structure as equitable as possible. That will be a primary objective. As the investigation continues I will keep the honourable gentleman informed and I hope that it will not be too long before I can make a broader indication of what the progress is. 
Pursuant to section 14 of the Commonwealth Grants Commission Act 1933-1966, I present the thirty-eighth report (1971) and supplement of the Commonwealth Grants Commission on applications made by States for financial assistance under section 96 of the Constitution. 
It is not a result of budgetary miscalculation. As a result of discussions which it had with the trading banks the Reserve Bank suggested that there should be facilities for the trading banks to lend more money through overdraft operations. The Reserve Bank agreed to it; the Treasury agreed to it; upon consultation I agreed to it and the Government agreed to it. 
The question of foreign investment in Australia is of course one which is in everybody's mind. We have benefited immensely from foreign investment in Australia. Our policy towards such investment has been very clearly enunciated over a period of time. The policy, I think, has been correct and the policy will be retained. I point out only one thing, and that is that when considering foreign investment in Australia it is very important to draw a distinction between what is national interest and what is natural sentiment, because they are vastly different considerations. Often it is difficult to satisfy national sentiment because essentially every Australian is a nationalist. Indeed, the people of every country are filled with national sentiment - the sentiment that they feel for their own country, but every country is in a different position from the others in regard to the development of its resources. 
So far as my human eye can see into the future, Australia will be a hungry user of capital. We will not be able to generate in Australia the desired level of capital investment from our own resources. We will therefore be wanting to see overseas capital come into the country to enable us to develop the resources in the future. For my part I do not intend that there shall come from any statement I make a discouragement to the people of the world with capital  to  invest from coming and investing in Australia. This Government will always have a determination, when national interest is concerned, to stand ready to intervene to protect the national interest. 
by leave -  Mr Acting Speaker, President  Nixon's statement on various new economic measures the United States was taking was made on 15th August last. Shortly stated, the  President  announced the following main measures: Convertibility of United States dollars into gold and other reserve assets was to be temporarily suspended; a 10 per cent surcharge on all dutiable imports into the United States, other than those subject to quotas, was to be imposed. The  President  announced certain other measures, the main effects of which were designed to stimulate the growth of output in the United States while at the same time attempting to restrain wage and price increases. One of these measures however - the job development tax credit - also has the effect of discriminating against imports into the United States of various manufactured products. 
The world currency system was thrown into disarray; there was great confusion and recognition of a very serious and complex problem for the world. In this atmosphere I attended the Commonwealth Finance Ministers' meeting in Nassau. Immediately afterwards I joined in the Annual Meeting of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank Group in Washington. Thereafter I went to France, the United Kingdom, Germany, Switzerland and Japan. In the many discussions I had with finance ministers, bankers and officials, the subject of the international monetary situation dominated all others. And it is that on which I now report to the House. 
I heard many diagnoses and many prescriptions^ - many of them contradictory. The single thing that everyone is agreed on is that the problem is serious and that the future is uncertain for the level of trade and for the prosperity of the world. I put before the House my own assessment of the situation - with the reservation that since circumstances are changing so rapidly, what may be fact and necessary consequence today may be changed, even negated, tomorrow. 
In international terms the significant element of the United States action - apart from the suspension of convertibility of the dollar, the consequence of which I will come to later - -was the 10 per cent surcharge on imports. There were many factors which contributed to the United States' balance of payments crisis. For one thing, the United States, which had once been an example to the world in maintaining cost and price stability, found itself in a position where, for some time, its prices and costs had been rising more rapidly than those of its main competitors. Its domestic markets were more and more being penetrated by foreign made consumer and capital goods. Beyond that the United States has claimed that some of its troubles have been due to the fact that it has been shouldering an undue share of the free world's defence burdens. Defence expenditures abroad by the United States have recently been running at around $US5 billion annually. Australia is probably in as good a position as any country to appreciate the size of the defence expenditures the United States has been assuming. 
Then again, the United States has claimed that its trading position has been worsened by what it regards as the unfair practices pursued by some of its trading partners. Australia, of course, which is more dependent than most on the export of primary products, would certainly agree that in many cases the United States, like ourselves, has some real grievances in terms of the trade practices of others. The United States is facing a deficit on its trade account this year for the first time for almost 80 years. In these circumstances, it is a good thing that a country as powerful as the United States is prepared to take up seriously this matter of unfair trading practices. As 1 said in an address which I gave in New York last month to the American-Australian Association there, if it does so it may find that the unfairness may not be all on the one side. In that context, incidentally, I certainly took the opportunity of pointing out the barriers that exist to many of our own exports to the United States. 
Bearing in mind all these circumstances, the United States has taken the view that a number of its trading partners were conducting their trade with the United States on the basis of exchange rates which gave them an unfair advantage. The United 
States has called for a major realignment of exchange parities. This realignment would recognise the over-valuation of the United States dollar, or the undervaluation of the currencies of those countries in balance of payments surplus - the way of expressing it depends upon the point of view. Finally, the United States has recognised that this dollar crisis is only the last of a series of crises which have affected ;n turn the pound sterling, the French franc, the German Deutsche mark, and now the United States dollar. It has been suggested therefore that the monetary system itself may be in need of review. 

 President Nixon's announcements of 15th August left the financial world rather stunned. Most markets remained closed for foreign transactions until 23rd August. And when they did open, parities with the United States dollar were not maintained. The currencies of most major trading countries floated upwards against the dollar until today the Deutsche mark is almost 10 per cent up on the US dollar, the yen about 9 per cent, the Netherlands guilder 3 per cent, the Belgian financial franc 7 per cent and sterling 4 per cent. These movements have already gone a long way towards producing a considerable realignment of currencies. They have, however, not done so in an adequately co-ordinated and wholly satisfactory manner. I shall say something more later about the likely consequences if this rather ragged process were to be continued for too long without any agreement being reached on a satisfactory mutual realignment as we understand that term. Meanwhile, the United States and its major trading partners are still debating bilaterally, and within other forums, notably the Group of Ten, what further contribution to the restoration of equilibrium in international trade and payments is still required by the United States, on the one hand, and by the rest of the Group of Ten, on the other. 
The areas of disagreement are many. When President Nixon announced his measures on 15th August, reference was made, as I have mentioned, to trade and defence issues. This has continued to be stressed, albeit perhaps a little less forcefully, by the Americans. Realignment of currencies is not enough. They also seek some undertakings from some of their trading partners on trade and defence mat ters. For example, it is clear that they will be looking closely at certain aspects of their trading relationships with such key countries as Japan, Canada and the European Economic Community. Similarly, one might expect them to be chiefly interested, as far as defence burden-sharing is concerned, in the policies of such countries as Japan, Germany and Canada. I am glad to be able to say, however, that one thing that is clear is that Australia figures in neither category. The United States, however, has not had things all its own way on these non-financial issues and criticism is mounting not only against the import surchage but also against some related measures such as the application of the United States job development tax credit which has the effect of discriminating against imports of capital equipment into the United States. 
Then there is the basic question of the magnitude of the balance of payments turnround which needs to be achieved between the United States and the rest of the Group of Ten. The United States has made no secret of the fact that it seeks a total turnaround of the order of $13 billion per annum. This figure is significantly larger than the figure, freely reported as being of the order of $8 billion, being suggested by the two international institutions chiefly concerned, namely the International Monetary Fund and the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. And this figure in turn is significantly larger than the amount which the rest of the Group of Ten appeared prepared to contribute by way of a reduction in their balance of payments surpluses. While there is no clear statement of what this latter amount may be, published reports suggest something less than $US5 billion or thereabouts. 
These differences go to the nub of the matter. For example, one reason which is reported to figure prominently in the argument between the United States and the other members of the Group of Ten is that the latter, particularly some of them, seriously question the need on their part to worsen their balances of payments on current account in order, among other things, to provide the United States with a sufficient surplus to enable it to maintain a high level of net capital investment abroad 
In that and perhaps in some other ways there are differences not merely of arithmetical estimation but of basic philosophy about the international balance of payments structure which different countries wish to see. 
The truth is, of course, that it is in any case very difficult for governments to accept with equanimity proposals for reducing their exports, or increasing their imports, by some specified sum or other designed to produce a total turnaround for the beneficiary country of some agreed order. They are bound to consider the effects of that deceision on their own citizens and to give great weight to their own national interests in that regard. It is because I believe that the present procedures run some risk of foundering on those grounds that I have, in all my talks with the Finance Ministers of various members of the Group of Ten, continued to emphasize the need I see for someone of them to put forward what would no doubt be a first shot at a new 'schedule' of parities, about which argument might then proceed. 
However that may be, what is clear is that even if trade and defence issues are left aside the attitude of the United States appears to be that the realignment has not yet gone far enough. But some of the Group of Ten are already eyeing off others within the Ten and saying because some individual members have allowed their rates to move very little, they themselves may already have gone too far. The United States is an important trading partner of the Europeans, but not allimportant. The Germans, for instance, have to watch their commercial relationships with, say France, and, if it comes to that, Japan. The rest of the Group of Ten, for their part, have said in voices of varying strength that if the United States is seeking a more substantial realignment, it should be making a contribution itself. By this they mean that the United States should itself devalue in terms of gold. 
In one sense this is not a particularly meaningful point. What really matters to those engaged in international transactions is the altered rate at which currencies exchange relative to one another following realignment. It does not matter to the trader and the financier how the realign ment of parities has come about. From that point of view the United States dollar can just as much be said to have floated downwards against most major currencies as those currencies can be said to have floated upwards against the dollar. In another sense, however, it does matter to those countries who are substantial holders of gold for, to the extent that they revalue, their gold reserves fall in value in terms of their local currencies. Another, and more far-reaching, aspect of this matter is its significance for the role of gold in the monetary system in the future; and in that context although the Managing Director of the Fund,  Mr Schweitzer,  has made the valid point that any outcome to the present impasse which did not involve gold in at least maintaining its value relative to the average appreciation of other currencies against the US dollar would not only affect the future of gold but also the future of Special Drawing Rights which are, of course, defined in terms of gold. In the present context I will not go into all these ramifications. Suffice it to say that the United States at this point of time asserts that an increase in the dollar price of gold is not acceptable to it. 
Then there is the question not of 'how' the turn-around in the balance of payments and the realignment of currencies should be achieved, but the question of when'. It is this matter of timing which is becoming in many ways the most critical issue. One problem is that the United States is an enormous economy in which, in relative terms, international trade does not loom so large. Exports as a proportion of United States gross national product are only some 5 per cent. For Japan, on the other hand, the figure is 11 per cent, and for Australia 16 per cent. For some other countries, such as the United Kingdom, the proportion is even higher. It follows that the United States is obviously under less pressure, from a purely economic viewpoint, in arriving at an outcome which it would regard as giving it a satisfactory contribution from the surplus countries. And there are some individual countries in turn for whom trade with the United States is not so important - for example, only some 5 per cent of France's trade is with the United States. Countries in that position may also find little difficulty  in  waiting. 
The great risk in all this, however, is that as the import surcharge and other measures taken by the United States begin to bite - as export to the United States and employment in export industries begins to fall away - the countries affected could well become less and less willing, and perhaps less and less able, to make the further contributions which the United States expects. In order to protect their position, these countries may resort to retaliation. Already one country - Denmark - has imposed its own 10 per cent import surcharge. Developments along these lines would pose great risks, and not least for those countries such as Australia which are not directly involved. As I said in my speech to the Board of Governors of the IMF and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, let world wisdom spare us from trade barriers and a bout of retaliation. 
The great risk, as I say, is that if the present situation lingers on too long, the world could see a series of retaliatory import cuts which could only lead to a downward spiral in world trade and employment. It must be hoped that the major trading countries will have too much sense to allow this to happen. But I do want to stress the importance of not allowing it to do so. The longer the present position continues, the more entrenched national positions become, the greater is the danger. Unless the further meetings which are planned for November can at least clear the way towards an outcome, so that the outlines at least of a multilateral realignment are in sight, then I greatly fear that such a realignment may evade us. Certainly, we cannot afford to be complacent - the more so since, as the French Minister of Finance warned the Annual Meeting of the Fund in Washington, 'the world economy appears to have entered a stage of lessened growth in recent months'. Unemployment is running in the region of about 6 per cent in the United States, about 7 per cent in Canada, and over 3i per cent in the United Kingdom. In Japan and in Germany the boom seems to be over and in both countries there has been a marked reduction in the growth rate. The authorities of each country have, it is true, recently taken certain measures to stimulate demand; yet on my present assessment it wou'd be unrealistic to expect any very early strong upturn in either. 
In these circumstances, it is simply not good enough for the rest of the world to have to sit back and wait to see when the protagonists in this struggle will reach a settlement. As I have said, failure to reach an early agreed realignment of parities will place individual countries under increasing pressures to look after their own situations. The result could be a relapse by countries into unilateral decisions, taken either singly or in certain groups of countries such as the EEC. Such a situation would, of course, represent a serious setback for international economic co-operation in general and for the future orderly working of the international monetary system in particular. 
In my discussions with the Finance Ministers wherever they have taken place I have strongly argued these points. First, I have stressed the urgency of finding a solution to the present impasse. Secondly, I have urged the importance of a currency realignment as the immediate objective. Thirdly, I have made it clear that we are not taking sides, as between the United States on the one hand and the other members of the Group of Ten on the other, on the issue of whether or not the United States should effect a minor devaluation in terms of gold. All we say is that we would not object to such action if that will facilitate agreement on an early realignment. We wish no issues of national dignity within the Group of Ten, nor any sense of the luxury of being relatively unaffected, to obstruct a speedy conclusion. 
Fourthly, I have argued that member countries of the Fund should concentrate all their energies at this time upon the resolution of the current problems, rather than perhaps being diverted to the longer term issues of monetary reform. We should indeed be very careful about abandoning the system we have before we find a better system to take its place. The fault may be not in the system but in the actions of its members, including their failure to observe and abide by the rules. In this connection there is, indeed, something of a paradox to be observed. Thus, if the United States does achieve the turnaround in its balance of payments necessary to correct its deficit, it is by no means unlikely that the status of the US dollar as  a  reserve asset will be restored. In that case. the nature of the changes needed, and indeed the necessity of changes at all, may take on a rather different aspect. 
This is not to say we are not prepared for change - far from it. There is general support now amongst member countries of the Fund for wider margins about parity. Any arrangements such as that, which might facilitate the realignment procedure, should certainly be worthy of close and careful examination. We would only say that arrangements for flexibility in exchange rates should not go so far as to turn a system of relatively stable parities into a system of uncontrolled floating rates. There is some strong support now in certain quarters for an increased role for special drawing rights - SDRs - in the monetary system. We are not at all opposed in principle to the idea of a managed international reserve asset based on some concept such as SDRs, although it would be only realistic to note both the considerable practical difficulties which might stand in the way of bringing such a scheme to fruition and the disadvantages under which any reserve asset will labour that does not have behind it the backing of real authority and international power. 
In the shorter term, however, what we do say is that the creation of SDRs must be handled with care. SDRs, like dollars or any other reserve asset, can lose acceptability through over-exposure. There is some support now in some quarters for action of an unspecified kind to be taken in relation to balances of reserve currencies. As a country which has traditionally held a large part of its reserves in the form of foreign exchange, with consequent benefit to our balance of payments, what we say is that any such action, if indeed it is needed once the United States achieves balance again, must be acceptable to the existing holders of foreign balances. 
In all, I believe what I have been saying is summed up in the view that we should be cautious about abandoning the system we have before we find a better one to take its place. It is also fundamental to any discussion on international monetary systems that we should not lose sight of basic relationships between these matters and domestic economic management. Until we learn more about the art of combining domestic economic growth with stability no monetary system will be safe from threats of breakdown. Again, it is important to us all that the current problems of speculative capital flows, which have played a large part in bringing about the present situation, should be resolved without prejudicing the longerterm capital flows which have contributed so much to the post-war growth in world production and trade. 
The discussion between the United States and the rest of the Group of Ten is to continue in Paris next month. We will be keeping m touch with developments through our representatives in the Fund, in OECD, and in the capital cities concerned. Australia is inextricably involved in the outcome of these discussions. It is for that reason that, in my talks with the Ministers of Finance and with such senior international civil servants as  Mr Van  Lennep of the OECD and  Mr Schweitzer  of the IMF I have urged the case for admission of Australia to the councils in which these matters are being discussed, and in. particular to Working Party Three of the OECD. It is clear that by any criterion Australia would not merely benefit from being present at such discussions but, what is equally important, make a worthwhile contribution towards them from what might be, perhaps, . a somewhat different viewpoint upon the world from that shared by most of the other present participants. 
So far as Australia's ability to maintain any consequences of an outcome to the present situation is concerned, our position is such that we will meet any new developments from a position of considerable strength. We had a balance of payments surplus last year of around $A600m and as things stand at the moment we have in prospect another very sizeable surplus in 1971-72. Our reserves are at present somewhat in excess of $A2.S billion. 
At the present time, the Australian dollar is continuing in its traditional role of being maintained in a fixed relationship with sterling. This means that the Australian dollar has appreciated by about 4 per cent in terms of parity with the United States dollar. However, other countries, some of them important trading partners of Australia, have appreciated even more against the United States dollar. If the Australian dollar is related to the currencies of our main trading partners, it is evident that overall the Australian dollar has effectively neither revalued nor devalued to any significant extent. It may be easily overlooked that, when many other major currencies are moving, it requires some positive action to achieve a situation which may be characterised as doing nothing. By retaining our fixed relationship with sterling in these circumstances we have, therefore, so far as humanly possible, kept our options open. 
It is the policy of the Government to maintain this broad position until such time as there is a firm realignment of currencies. On that realignment taking place, a decision can be taken' about the Australian dollar with some certainty as to the circumstances which will obtain in the foreign exchange markets in the period beyond. And as the Prime Minister said is his statement to the House on 26th August, any such decision will have only one proper basis - the interests of the Australian economy and the Australian nation as a whole. I present the following paper: 
The International Monetary Situation - 
Ministerial Statement, 28th October 1971. 
Motion (by  Mr Swartz)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
 I draw the honourable member's attention to the fact that the inter-company market is very short term and I would not expect to find that the relationship between the 2 interest rates quoted is quite what it appears to be at first sight. As to the substantive question whether the Government will consider a reduction in the long term bond rate, this is a matter of policy, and when the appropriate time comes to make an announcement an announcement will be made. 
I have the greatest confidence in the House, so there is no need to take it into my confidence. But this forecasting committee is a committee drawn up from different departments. It can only make judgments. It formulates a base of judgment upon which more senior officers can make recommendations and give advice to the Government, and it is arising out of that advice to the Government that the Government will take decisions. Therefore, it would be inappropriate to provide to the House, or indeed to make public, a document which is a base working document. 
The question of extra assistance to the gold mining industry specifically in relation to Kalgoorlie and the environs has been considered on a number of occasions. Recently, our attention was drawn to changed facts and a request was made for reconsideration. This reconsideration will be given. 
I do not recall using such a term as 'automatic outcome*. However, I do not challenge that. But if the honourable gentleman were to quote all that I said and not just the parts which he feels would suit the purposes of his question, he would know that I went on to say that it was essential as a policy objective not to have migrants arriving immediately prior to the Christmas close-down period in industry. So, while this is desirable at any time, it was translated from desirability into essentiality in the present circumstances or the anticipated circumstances at that time. Any suggestion that the honourable gentleman may make that the Prime Minister was wrong in saying that he has sensitivity to the problem is quite inaccurate. The fact of the matter is that the Prime Minister does have sensitivity to it, and so do I, and when I speak of unemployment I am speaking not just of economic loss but of the great social impact it has on people, unlike the Leader of the Opposition who seems to want unemployment for political advantage. 
The question is an absurd one. Firstly, I no longer have responsibility for the Government Printer. The suggestion that coupons for food parcels are being printed discloses a depression psychology ' on the part of the Opposition. If Opposition members do not have enough faith and confidence in the strength and resilience of this economy now, they never will have. 
I should like to make clear one point, which must be reiterated on every occasion that a request is made for the Treasurer to instruct the Commissioner of Taxation to do anything and that point is this: The Treasurer has no power to instruct the Commissioner of Taxation. 
He has no power under the statute and I think in principle he should have no power. The Commissioner of Taxation must remain a statutory officer, free to exercise all those discretions which are conferred on him by statute. He must interpret the statute himself. I believe that it would not be a good thing for this Parliament to empower anybody to direct the Commissioner as to the exercise of his discretion. If that is to be done it ought to be done quasi judicially through the Review Board or directly judicially through the High Court. 
As to the substance of the question, I understand that in practice the problem to which the honourable gentleman has referred is sometimes overcome. I do not like offering advice as to how things can be overcome but the fact is that on many occasions the employee and the employer reach an arrangement whereby the long service leave is paid in 2 parts. When the long service leave spreads over 2 financial years the employer will make the first sum available which will carry the pay until 30th June and the second payment in the second financial year. I will draw the attention of the Commissioner to the question whether this operates to the disadvantage of migrants and see whether or not he would recommend that the Act be amended. I think he will not do that because many payments of long service leave, especially when the employment ends, are taken as  final payments which attract taxation on only 5 per cent of the amount. 
I saw newspaper reports referring to a cut back by BHP. I made certain inquiries and I understand that a statement was made by the general manager of the Newcastle works, and that in the statement it was said that these steps had been taken as a consequence of a demand shortfall in both the domestic and export markets. I understand that BHP sees this as something that is periodic and, contrary to one report, it does not see 'worse to come'. The company was experiencing bouyant conditions domestically, and looking ahead, hoped that export would sustain a slow down. Unfortunately, the export opportunities are not there. There is a gross world over-capacity in the steel industry, whereas a short time ago there was a shortage. For example pig iron, which about 18 months ago was priced at $84 a ton, is now selling at less than one-half of that amount. This periodic situation caused by over (capacity has affected other countries. I understand that there has been a cut down of about 20 per cent in the steel industry in Japan, and I have seen reports of trading losses made in the United Kingdom and the United States of America. 
On the domestic side the slow down in orders is quite significant as part of the decision, and the sharp downturn in orders has, to some extent - a considerable extent, very likely - been caused by the cancellation of over ordering and double ordering in times of shortage in Australia, as there was in the past, when conditions were extremely buoyant. There has been a downturn in the requirements of the mining industry. So far as the general aspects of the question are concerned, I think that the honourable gentleman would like the situation to be worse than it is. I have said that there is every reason for confidence in our economy. I have also said that the Government will continue to pay close attention to the economy and stands ready, when the occasion requires it, to take appropriate action. 
I move- 
That  the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to obtain further supply under the appropriations for salaries and payments in the nature of salary for all departments, for war and service pensions and allowances and for certain other services amounting to $138,215,000 and will enable these services to be met until the moneys provided in the Appropriation Bill No. 1) 1971-72 are available. The sums sought in this Bill do not in any way reflect an increase in the amounts included for these purposes in the 1971-72 Budget. 
Additional supply is needed for 3 reasons. Since the Supply Bill (No. 1) 1971-72 was introduced on 27th April some 19 salary determinations and awards have come into operation. Although the Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1971-72 provides for most of these, it will  be  clear that the provision made in the Supply Act (No. 1) for salaries and payments in the nature of salary is inadequate. Nor  will  it be possible to fund all of the deficiency from the advance to the Treasurer. Secondly, by Acts Nos 68 and 69 of 1971, Parliament increased war and 
Service  pensions and allowances by varying rates. 
No provision was made for these increases in the Supply Act (No. 1), nor could  the  requirement reasonably  have  been forecast in April last. An additional $ 19.5m is needed to enable these pensions and benefits to be met up to and including pension payday, 9th December 1971. Thirdly, it is now necessary to extend the supply period  beyond  30th November. For a number of years it has been the practice of the Parliament to grant the Government supply for a period  of  5 months, that is, to 30th November. To enable the Parliamentary timetable for the passage of the Appropriation Bills conveniently to be met it is now desired to provide additional supply for the purposes set out in the schedule to this Bill to meet anticipated payments to 17th December. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Income tax statistics are available of deductions allowed in the assessments of taxable individuals included in the main statistical tabulations for the 1968-69 income year. Estimates of the cost to income tax revenue of deductions for the maintenance of dependants and outer deductions in respect of which statistics were compiled for the 1968-69 income year are set out in the table attached. 
I point out that in the method used in preparing these estimates, and those supplied in answer to previous questions on this matter, the cost of revenue of Total Deductions was estimated, first end the portions of this total cost attributable to each type of deduction for which statistics were available were then estimated. However, the cost to revenue of allowing each type of deduction considered separately is less than the amount shown for each type of deduction in the table, because of the effect of the progression in the income tax rates. 
The position is most conveniently explained by the example of a taxpayer with a taxable income of $3,900 per annum who had been allowed deductions totalling $200, comprising $100 each for superannuation payments and net medical expenses. The tax payable on each of the relevant amounts of income for the 1968-69 income year was as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Reserve Bank has provided the following information bringing up to date the earlier answer referred to- 
 The Acting Commonwealth Statistician has supplied the following information in reply to the honourable member's question: 
Apparent Consumption of Cigarettes in Australia. (Apparent consumption in the table below is estimated on the basis of total customs and excise clearances of cigarettes for home consumption. No details are available on changes in stocks of cigarettes held after clearance and therefore it is not possible to calculate consumption by making allowance for these changes.) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Acting Commonwealth Statistician has provided the following table showing the average number of children per ever-married male at each Census from 1911. To obtain these averages the total number of children in each age group has been related to the total number of ever-married males aged 20 to 59 years. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Acting Commonwealth Statistician has advised that the percentage changes in the selected components of the Consumer Price Index for the periods specified are as shown in the following table: 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
See answer to (1). 
(a) The Commissioner of Taxation has advised that there is no provision in the income tax law under which costs incurred by a taxpayer in moving to a new place of residence for the purpose of obtaining employment may be allowed as deductions. Decisions of the Taxation Boards of Review have confirmed that such expenditure is of a private or domestic nature which is expressly excluded from the field of allowable deductions. 
The allowance of these costs could hardly be confined to the particular classes of persons to whom the honourable member refers. I will arrange to have the question of general (but not retrospective) deductibility examined when the concessional deductions provisions of the income tax law next come under review. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Acting Commonwealth Statistician has supplied the following table which shows the percentage of the gross national product at factor cost which was made up of wages, salaries and supplements in each year since 1949-50. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Acting Commonwealth Statistician has advised that he expects the 1970 issue of the Labour Report to be published in February 1972. 
I have not seen the statement attributed to  Mr Bethune.  but 1 will make sure that I obtain a copy of whatever he has said so that I can appreciate it for myself. But having said that I will make inquiries to see what he has said, I must assert firmly that it is not the Commonwealth's policy to discriminate or as put by the honourable gentleman, allegedly reporting  Mr Bethune,  to arrest development in the smaller States. That is not our policy. 
The right honourable gentleman both spoke to me and wrote to me about this matter, and in consequence [ have instructed the Commissioner of Taxation to examine it so that he can inform me as to what action could be taken to correct the position and what would be the consequences and ramifications of any such action not only in the Commonwealth Public Service area but generally. I understand that the facts as recited by the right honourable gentleman are correct. I am expecting confirmation of that and also some indication, as I said earlier, of what is involved in changing the situation. 
Yes, that is our intention. The Government has announced through me that we will introduce legislation in relation to dividend stripping arrangements and in relation to the tax rebate on dividends received by companies. 
I  have received very many representations and  I  am very well aware of the concern which many companies have. The significance of the proposals to companies is underlined by the number of letters which  I  have received. The form of the legislation has not yet been concluded, but  I  can assure the honourable member that we are taking into account all the representations that have been made so that we will not overlap into areas which we do not intend to be covered by the legislation. 
What we intend to do is make the incidence of taxation fall where it should because if it does not fall where it should it creates an inequity so that the totality of taxpayers have to pay more simply because there is minimisation of tax by those who avoid it. Our major exercise is to curtail the benefits at present available to companies engaged in dividend stripping operations. When the legislation is ready  I  will present it to the House. When it has been presented to the House it will be available for all companies to examine very closely. 
I  assure the honourable member that I stand willing to look at all representations that are made after the legislation has been seen, as well, of course, as receiving representations before the legislation is presented. 
Included in the question was what I might call a  misfact - that the economy is tottering. The fact is, the economy has essential strength and very great resilience. But that was not the nature of the question; the question concerned hot money. The honourable gentleman did not in any way attempt to describe to me what he means by hot money. If he means the sort of money which has attacked the currencies of other countries such as sterling, the Deutsche mark and the yen - money coming on to the market in the expectation of a change in the parity value and in order to force it so that large capital gains can be made - there is no evidence at all that the Australian currency is under attack or that there is any hot money of that kind in Australia. 
If, on the other hand, the honourable gentleman is referring to a significantly increased inflow of capital into Australia, then that needs to be separated into 2 essential elements. One element is direct capital investment over the long term by companies seeking to capitalise on the opportunities that Australia presents because of its political stability and its resource potentiality, which has been growing over the years. The second element is that there is  a  very sophisticated, developed, non-banking structure in Australia which has come very much to the fore over recent years. Because of its capacity it is able to mobilise sources of money from outside Australia. Those sources of money from outside Australia are quite willing to come to Australia for relatively short term investment. The fact is, of course, that once the money comes here and is invested it tends to become resident. The inflow of capital into Australia in the 1960s amounted to about $6 billion. The decade of the 1960s will go down in our history as a very significant development period which has brought an increase in the standards of living of Australians which in the 1950s they never contemplated. 
I present the following paper: 
Taxation - Fiftieth report of the Commissioner of Taxation dated 1 November 1971. 
I move: 
That the paper be printed. 
Honourable members will recall that it is the practice of the House to agree forthwith to the motion to print this paper so that it may be covered by parliamentary privilege. This course has the concurrence of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  When the motion is agreed to the report will be circulated immediately. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I ask leave of the Committee to move together the amendments circulated in my name. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to give effect to the revisions to the financial assistance grants arrangements between the Commonwealth and the States agreed upon at the Premiers Conference on 16th June last. It provides for adjustments to the financial assistance grants in 1971-72 and in subsequent years which result from the transfer of payroll tax from the Commonwealth to the States. It thus complements the Payroll Tax (Termination of Commonwealth Tax) Act 1971 which recently was passed by the Parliament. It provides also for the payment to the States of additional nonrecurring revenue assistance of $40m in 1971-72. This legislation, if enacted, will replace the States Grants Act 1970-71. 
As honourable members are aware, new revenue assistance arrangements between the Commonwealth and the States, to apply over the 5 years 1970-71 to 1974-75, were settled at the June 1970 Premiers Conference. Under these arrangements, Commonwealth revenue assistance to the States has increased, and will continue to increase, at a considerably faster rate than would have been the case had the previous arrangements continued unchanged. However, particularly following the High Court decision invalidating State receipts duties as they applied to certain types of transaction, it was clear that, notwithstanding these large increases in Commonwealth revenue assistance, it would be desirable for the States to have access to a new source of taxation to give them greater freedom and independence in revenue raising. At the June 1970 Premiers Conference the Commonwealth therefore offered to examine with the States any proposals made by them for a new growth tax. No proposals were put forward by the States, but at the Premiers Conference in April of this year the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  announced that the Commonwealth Government was examining alternative means by which the States might be given access to a new field of taxation. 
That examination was made in considerable detail and with the utmost care. It may be helpful if I outline to the House, very briefly, the main considerations we had in mind in coming to the decision to offer to transfer payroll tax to the States. As a starting point, of course, there is the fact that the Constitution clearly debars the States from imposing any of the usual forms of sales tax and other widely based indirect taxes. At the same time, we satisfied ourselves, after full and thorough consideration, that we should not depart from the Commonwealth's long-held view that it should retain sole access to income taxation. The reasons for that latter view have been stated on a number of occasions and I shall outline them only very briefly here. Income tax is by far the most important of the tax sources available to the Commonwealth, constituting over 60 per cent of Commonwealth tax collections, and over 50 per cent of all public authority taxation collections. Because of its all pervading nature, income tax is the most important economic policy weapon available to the Commonwealth and it is also a very important instrument in redistributing income and in implementing other social policies. 
We also found, after a careful review of various possibilities, that the other taxes available would not meet the general aim, from the viewpoint of this exercise, that any new State tax should be widely based and should provide scope for the States to vary the rate of the tax should they wish to do so. In the light of these considerations, therefore, we saw payroll tax as the only practical possibility. While we realise that it was not an ideal tax for the purposes we were seeking to achieve, we believed also that many of the arguments commonly brought against it were not well founded. In particular, the argument that it adds to costs can, broadly speaking, be applied to all taxes. On the credit side, payroll tax is broadly based, its yield grows almost directly in line with the economy, and it is relatively simple to administer. 
At the Premiers Conference the States reaffirmed their previously expressed views that they needed access to a new area of growth taxation to assist them in financing improvements in the services which they provide. While some of them indicated that they would have preferred to be given access to income tax, all said that they would accept payroll tax on the basis that it would constitute a useful addition to their resources for revenue raising purposes. In withdrawing from the field of payroll tax, the Commonwealth could not, of course, contemplate accepting the very large loss of revenue that would be involved in the absence of any offset to its existing payments to the States, and it was therefore agreed that offsetting reductions would be made to the financial assistance grants. It was agreed also, however, that these reductions would be less than the loss to the Commonwealth - and the gain to the States - resulting from the transfer of payroll tax at the then existing rate, by virtue of 4 separate factors. 
First, the reduction in the grants will be smaller than the loss to Commonwealth revenue by an amount equal to the payroll tax payable- at the rate of 2.5 per centin respect of non-business activities of local government authorities. By this means the Commonwealth will, in effect, be bearing the cost, which would otherwise be incurred by State governments, of exempting non-business activities of local authorities from payment of payroll tax as from the date of transfer of the tax to the States. The relief thereby provided to local authorities is estimated at about $6m in 1971-72 and $8m in a full year. This prospective relief has been most warmly welcomed by local authorities throughout Australia. 
Secondly, the Commonwealth will, in effect, compensate the States for the extra costs they will incur in administering their new payroll taxes. These costs will not be large, the estimate for all 6 States for 1971-72 being only about $600,000. By this means, however, the Commonwealth will ensure that the States are relieved of any additional expenses which would otherwise have reduced the benefit accruing to them from the transfer. 
The third factor is a once-for-all adjustment to take account of the probability that revenue from payroll tax - at constant rates - will grow at a slightly slower rate than the financial assistance grants that the States will be losing would have done. I make the point there that because of the betterment factor it grows at a greater rate. For this purpose, the deduction from the 'base' grants for 1971-72, on which the calculation of the financial assistance grants for 1972-73 and subsequent years will depend, will be reduced by a further $3m and the States will benefit accordingly. 
Fourthly, the Commonwealth agreed to make the reduction in the States' grants in 1971-72 smaller than the loss to Commonwealth revenue resulting from the transfer of the tax by a further amount now estimated at approximately $22.4m. This amount is calculated by first distributing $20m between the States in proportion to their estimated payroll tax collections in 1971-72 at the rate of 2.5 per cent. However, because distribution on that basis could be held to favour the 2 most populous States, there will be added to the amounts so calculated for the 4 less populous States such amounts as are necessary to bring their allocations up to what they would have been had the distribution of the $20m been in proportion to the States' financial assistance grants. These additional amounts for the 4 less populous States are presently estimated at approximately $2. 4m, thus giving a total amount for all States of about $22.4m. This last provision, of course, is equivalent to granting additional revenue assistance to the States. Moreover, because the estimated amount of $22.4m by which the reduction in the financial assistance grants will be less than the amount of payroll tax collections transferred will also apply to the base used to determine the formula grants for 1972-73 and subsequent years, this additional assistance to the States will continue and escalate under the formula in future years. 
This additional assistance, together with the special non-recurring revenue assistance of $40m to be paid to the States in 1971- 72 to which I have already referred, is being provided by the Commonwealth in recognition of arguments put forward by the States at the Premiers Conference. The Premiers argued that, even after taking into account additional revenue they might be able to raise from their existing taxes and charges, and from payroll tax, they would find it very difficult to finance the large and unavoidable increases in expenditure they had in prospect, particularly in the current financial year. These increases were the result mainly of the continuing effect of the abnormally large increases in wage and salary awards granted by various wage fixing bodies in 1970-71. As honourable members will recall, special assistance of $43m had to be provided in 1970-71 for the same reason, notwithstanding the significant efforts made by all States, following the February 1971 Premiers Conference, to improve their budgetary positions. 
After agreement had been reached to transfer the payroll tax to the States, the States decided among themselves that they would increase the rate of tax by 1 per cent upon its transfer to them. Lest there be any doubt on the matter, I should say that this decision was made by the Premiers themselves in the light of their own judgments of their likely expenditure commitments and their revenue needs. The Commonwealth played no part in the decision. I understand that it is estimated that the total net gain to the States' budgets as a result of this increase will be about $90m in 1971-72 and, of course, appreciably more than that in a full year. 
The form of the Bill closely follows that of the States Grants Act 1970-71, which it is replacing, with 3 exceptions. First, it provides, in sub-clause 3 of clause 7 and in clause 13, for the deductions to be made to the grants under the payroll tax transfer arrangements. The Payroll Tax (Termination of Commonwealth Tax) Act 1971 recently passed by the Parliament was proclaimed to commence as from 1st September and, under the provisions of that Act, Commonwealth Payroll Tax is no longer being levied in the States. It is, of course, essential that the appropriate offsetting reductions now be made to the general revenue grants to the States. Honourable members will note that under clause 14 of the Bill the Treasurer will be required to determine the amounts to be deducted, in accordance with the principles governing such deductions which are set out in the Bill. This procedure is necessary because it will not be possible to make accurate estimates of some of the elements involved in the calculation of the deductions until close to the end of 1971-72. In particular, it will not be possible to estimate accurately the States' payroll tax collections, calculated from the date of transfer and at the then existing rate of 2.5 per cent, until that time. Some other estimates, relating to the amounts to be deducted from the 'base' on which the calculations of the grants will be made for 1972-73 and subsequent years, will in fact not be made until early in 1972-73. These and the other estimates involved - for example, administrative costs to the States - will, of course, be made in close consultation with each of the States. 
The second point on which this legislation differs from the Act which it is replacing is that it no longer specifies precisely how the Commonwealth Statistician should calculate average wages for purposes of the formula laid down in the Act. Previously, the Statistician was required to make the calculations by reference solely to figures shown on payroll tax returns. However, with the transfer of the tax to the States it is no longer practicable to specify in the Commonwealth legislation the method to be used to calculate average wages and subclause 2 of clause IS of the Bill therefore provides that the method to be employed by the Statistician is to be determined by the Treasurer after consultation with the State Treasurers. The method proposed to be used in the future has, in fact, already been agreed between the Commonwealth and the States. It will give results virtually identical with those derived from the method laid down in the present legislation. I seek the leave of the House to incorporate in Hansard for the information of honourable members the text setting out the method that has been agreed. 
The third respect in which this legislation differs from the States Grants Act 1970-71 is that the provisions in that Act permitting the Treasurer to make deductions from the grants payable to a State which does not pay payroll tax to the Commonwealth have, for obvious reasons, been dropped. Under clause 10 of the Bill the special non-recurring revenue assistance of $40m to be paid to the States in 1971-72 is to be distributed between them in proportion to the other grants payable to them under the Act this year, but before making the deductions to the grants which result from the transfer of payroll tax. I seek the leave of the House to incorporate in Hansard a table showing the present estimates of each State's share of this $40m special assistance, and also of the estimated net gain to each State under the payroll tax transfer arrangements. 
The honourable gentleman asked me a question in very similar terms during the last sitting week. I then told him that the matter was being reviewed in the light of changed circumstances. We are now in the course of that review. 1 have received letters from honourable senators of my own Party from Western Australia, the honourable gentleman and a gentleman named  Mr Brodie  Hall who. if my recollection is correct, is  Chairman  of the Chamber of Mines in Kalgoorlie. I have also had a letter from the Town  Clerk  of Kalgoorlie, but please do not hold me precisely to the names of the people who have written the letters. 
I am glad that I can answer this question in such a happy atmosphere. However, the honourable member for Kalgoorlie does not regard it in quite that way. I understand full . well his concern and will proceed with the examination. When I get the opportunity to complete il. I will take it to the Government and will then inform all parties who have made requests to me of the outcome. 
I am, of course, very well aware of the figures issued by the Commonwealth Statistician yesterday. I did read commentaries about them this morning and I did learn that not only was I faulty but also others who criticised me were faulty. I regard it as an immense break-through that I am not the only one who is at fault. One becomes accustomed to that sort of criticism. Therefore, one needs to look at the figures and analyse them to see what they do show. Firstly, they show that for the year ended in the September quarter the growth in wages was about 15 per cent compared with 161 per cent for the year ended in the June quarter. In other words, there has been a bit of a downturn in the rate of increase in wages. They show that there has been an increase in profits from 3 per cent to 6 per cent. So far as consumer spending is concerned they show that there has been what I might describe as a continuing subdued growth. 
The rate of growth is 9i per cent. Those people who make their commentary, whether it ; be .by way of interjection or by saner means, should look at the figure of  9i  per cent. In private investment for the year up to the September quarter there has been a growth of 14 per cent, compared with the previous year. That is a very considerable growth. There has been quite a sharp upturn in Federal and State public spending in both the capital account and the current account. That was after the restraints of the June quarter. 
The figures certainly do not show that the economy is in a state of stagnation or no growth. On the contrary, it will be seen that those figures are at current prices and therefore they reflect price increases. But when those current price figures are deflated from the point of view of price increases they still show that the state of the economy is one of improvement in the rate of growth and they do justify the statements which I have been making that there is strength and a resilience in the economy. The final point I should make is that, whereas over the last year or so the majority of the growth occurred in the wage and salary sector, on this occasion there has been a growth in the operating surplus or, in general terms, the profit of enterprises. The figures should provide ground for confidence on the part of the business community. 
As the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard)  has said, he has asked  2  questions about this matter. He asked one question this week and one in the previous sitting week. I do not for a moment underrate the importance he puts upon the matter. Naturally enough, all of us in this House have had experience of putting as vigorously as we could in the House and outside the House the interests of our own electors. This is a matter of survival and no doubt that is a duty for members to fulfil. We understand that. But it follows that governments are not able to act as an honourable member wants them to act on all occasions. Certainly, governments cannot act until they make a full examination of all the issues. 
The Government's decision to renew the subsidy for 3 years was taken in J une 1 970 after careful consideration of the case presented by the industry. At that time, the labour situation in Kalgoorlie was tight and general business activity was at a high level. The view taken by the Government was that a continuance of existing rales of subsidy would allow gold mining activity in Kalgoorlie to continue to phase out gradually with the employees concerned being able to obtain employment in nickel mining. The figure of declining production which the honourable member gave to the House a moment ago is an indication of this gradual phasing out. Many of the employees would retain their employment at the treatment plants as these shifted from handling gold to the treatment of nickel ore. Also, the construction of a nickel smelter by Western Mining Corporation and the reconstruction of the railway to Esperance would provide employment for the period ahead. In October 1970 whilst the legislation extending the subsidy was before the Parliament the then Prime Minister, the present right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  at the request of the Premier of the day of Western Australia,  Sir David  Brand, saw a delegation comprising the Western Australian Minister for Mines in a Liberal Government,  Mr Griffiths,  the then Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Tonkin,  and  Mr Brodie.Hail. President  of the Chamber of Mines. In December 1970  Mr Brodie-Hall  wrote to the Prime Minister saying that conditions had deteriorated mainly because of an increase in Stale minimum wage rates and requesting an increase in the rate of subsidy. He also stated, as I recall it. that that was a changed circumstance. As honourable members will remember, at that time there was a very sharp increase in the minimum wage rate throughout Western Australia. The request was considered by 
Cabinet and rejected. When this decision was conveyed to  Mr Brodie-Hall  by the then Treasurer, my colleague the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Bury),  it was asked that it again be reconsidered. In January 1971 the then Treasurer wrote saying that he could see no basis for a reconsideration. 
In response to further material provided by  Mr Brodie-Hall,  the Prime Minister in March 1971 re-affirmed the Government's position. I am bound to say that that was never accepted by gentlemen such as  Mr Brodie-Hall  whom 1 have seen on, 1 think, 2 occasions. Certainly, I have a very clear recollection of one occasion here in Canberra. In April 1971, I, as Commonwealth Treasurer, saw the Western Australian Treasurer who at that time was  Mr Evans.  I understand he is now AttorneyGeneral. I said that I did not consider there was a case for Commonwealth action. There have been many subsequent representations. I think it is relevant to point out that the Western Australian State Government has a role to play in this matter. Commonwealth funds provided to Western Australia this year are substantially greater than they were in 1970-71. That State has, in common with all the other Stales, benefited from the substantially improved financial assistance arrangements, access to payroll tax which has already been applied at an increased rate by the States, additional financial assistance provided at the June 1971 Premiers' Conference and from the Commonwealth's continued support of a high level of State borrowing programmes. The benefits to Western Australia from the transfer of payroll tax to the States and from the special revenue assistance provided in 1971-72 will amount to over Si 2m this financial year and will increase according to the formula next financial year. The Commonwealth has supported in the last 2 years special additions to Western Australia's borrowing programmes in recognition of its rapid rate of population and economic growth compared with other States. As a result the State's borrowing authority was 85m higher in 1970-71 than it would otherwise have been and is S8m higher in 1971-72 than it would otherwise have been. Many persons have made representations. I have a clear recollection of  Senator Durack  from Western Australia making representations to me. Others who made representations include the honourable member for Kalgoorlie,  Mr BrodieHall,  the Chamber of Mines of which he is the  President,  the town clerk of Kalgoorlie, and the shire  president  of Boulder. 
Yes. That means that representations have been made. That is what it means: The representations have been made. I have since received telegrams which state: 'Unless you' - that is the Government - 'make a decision we are going to come over at a cost of $2,000'. I have sent back a telegram saying that those people making all the representations are providing the information and that I do not believe that a deputation would add materially to the information available to us There is no need for them to make the point that it will cost $2,000 to come here The matter is being pursued by representations. What the representations have pointed out is that circumstances have changed and that, while an increase in the subsidy was refused previously, it now ought to be granted because of the changed circumstances which relate to the nickel industry, because there has been a slowing down of the realisation of nickel mining and nickel smelting operations, and because the transference of the work force from the gold mines into the nickel mines and smelters will leave a gap. This is the new situation which is represented to me. It is said that the break in the changeover will cause social dislocation of the people there. Because of these changed circumstances, the Government agreed to submit the matter to further examination. The position at the present time is that the matter is being so examined. 
Overseas investment in Australia has now reached considerable proportions. Over the last decade the inflow of capital into Australia has been $7.9 billion. This $7.9 billion represents about 12 per cent of the total investment in Australia. In Australia we have very high savings rates by world standards, but even though we have high savings for investment in Australia they have not been sufficient to open up all the resources that are available to us for the use of the Australian people, so that the inflow of capital has augmented our own savings and therefore enabled a stronger growth economically and in development terms. The present rate of inflow is quite high. Last financial year it was about $1.5 billion. This year it is flowing at a higher rate. 
Capital inflow essentially has 2 elements. One is direct investment in Australia by overseas companies and the other is borrowings within Australia from overseas for long-term developmental projects relating very predominantly to the development of our natural resources. I must say to the House that I believe that this capital inflow into Australia, put to use in Australia's economic development, has been to the benefit of the Australian people. There is no preferential treatment for the United Kingdom. We do not discriminate between source countries. Of course, the investment in Australia by the United Kingdom is of a high order simply because of the long history of our association with that country. 1 should add in relation to the third part of the question that we are concerned to keep under close observation the nature of the capital inflow, lt is not easy to do this, because once the money comes in it gels disseminated and it is not possible always to know the ultimate destination of that money. But insofar as we are able, through the Reserve Bank and the Commonwealth Statistician, we do what we can. 
We are satisfied that there is no evidence to suggest that there is a large inflow of what might be called 'hot money'. Our general attitude is that we want the capital inflow lo be put to the advantage of the Australian economy and also we want to preserve Australian equity participation in the development of Australia. We have adopted a number of different methods of doing what we can to ensure this. For instance, we have adopted a borrowing guideline policy which is designed to encourage companies with overseas ownership to offer Australian equity. We have the Australian Resources Development Bank. There has been a takeover code developed by the States and the Territories. There are a number of ways in which we have encouraged Australian equity. I can assure the honourable member that not only are we receiving benefits from this but also we will continue to keep it under examination to make sure that Australian national interest is not offended. If Austraiian national interest is offended, we will stand ready to intervene as on occasions we have done. 
1 will give consideration to the suggestion made by the honourable member. 
I will not nor can I give an unequivocal assurance that the legislation will be introduced before the Houses rises. The reason for this is that it is not possible to have legislation ready by then. Were I able to introduce the legislation it would give me great pleasure to do so because this is an area that I am very anxious to have filled by adequate, proper, well considered and well conceived legislation. 
The development of this legislation has been long and has involved assiduous work by senior officers in the Treasury, by myself and by my colleague the Minister for the Army. The formulation of the legislation is a very big job. If the honourable gentleman realised how much consultation is involved, how much consideration there is of the issues and the interaction of one against the other that need to be reconciled, he would understand that no matter how much will there is to get this legislation ready, it is not possible to do so. Further, he would understand that to introduce such legislation in some form less than it ought to be would submit policy holders to even greater risks than they are now. At this stage all policy holders must be aware that there are some insurance companies which may not be able to honour their obligations. They, therefore, are able to take much greater care about the companies with which they contract insurance. When this legislation comes in, policy holders will be entitled to feel that it gives them the public protection for which they are looking. That is the Government's objective. This is a policy matter totally within the ambit of responsibility of the Treasury. My colleague, the Attorney-General, is not yet involved in it because- 
The Parliamentary Counsel come within the ministerial responsibility of the Attorney-General but, naturally enough, the Attorney-General himself does not draft legislation. I would have thought the honourable member would be aware of that. The AttorneyGeneral is in a position where he will, as a member of the Cabinet, consider all the ramifications of the legislation and I will be delighted to have his advice. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to appropriate $30m to be lent to the Australian Wool Commission, in order to supplement as necessary its working capital. The money will be available for use by the Commission, to the extent that it is necessary for it to purchase wool in the course of maintaining its reserve prices in the wool market, and for the purchase of price averaging plan wool on hand at the end of the third pool period. 
I think it is worth while recalling briefly the sequence of steps leading up to the present situation. The Wool Commission was established about 12 months ago, empowered to operate a flexible reserve price scheme for wool sold at auction. The aim was to reduce the instability of auction prices and to prevent wool being sold at reduced prices due to temporary slackening of competition at auctions. Following a rise in the initial period of the Commission's operations, wool prices fell and the Commission decided that, when auctions commenced after the Christmas recess, average reserve prices would be held at the closing levels of the 1970 sales. This action resulted in the Commission purchasing or having passed in to it large quantities of wool. However in sales after Easter there was some improvement in the market and the Commission's purchasing rate fell during the closing months of 1970-71. The Com mission also resold some 73,000 bales of its stocks. After some further sales between the selling seasons, the Commission's stock at the commencement of the 1971-72 season was 431,000 bales. 
The House was informed in my Budget Speech that the Government would continue to support the Commission in its reserve price operations on the same basis as in the past season, subject to regular reports and review by the Commission. The decision to introduce a one-year scheme of deficiency payments was also announced in the Budget Speech. These decisions were reached after consideration of the severe financial plight of the wool industry and also of the best assessments available of the market outlook. At that time the economic measures subsequently taken by the Government of the United States of America and the consequent international currency disturbances could not be predicted. The extent to which these unforeseeable factors have affected the market situation cannot be measured, but undoubtedly it has been marked. 
The Commission's buying-in rates during the early months of the current season were at a high level. Clearances to the trade during November have been better, but continued purchases by the Commission have brought its stocks to in excess of 700,000 bales. The Government has therefore undertaken a further review of the wool market situation. On the basis of the latest report by (he Commission on its operations, and its views on alternative courses of action, recommendations were presented to Cabinet by the Acting Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Nixon).  The Government decided that the best course of action in present circumstances was for the Commission to maintain its current reserve price. 
The working capital already available to the Commission totals $86m. Of this amount $22m has been made available as a loan from appropriations by this Parliament - SI 2m in the last financial year and $1Om in the current financial year. Loans totalling $64m have been made available to the Commission by the trading banks, of which $30m has been made available this financial year on the basis that it will be repaid not later than 30th April 1972. The Commission pays interest at 64 per cent per annum on all these borrowed funds and the same rate is proposed on advances from the money to be appropriated by the Bill. Unless the Commission's buying-in rate drops very sharply the money already available to it for wool purchases will be fully committed during the parliamentary recess. lt was against this background that the Government decided - despite its reluctance to introduce new measures at this stage of the sittings - that this Bill should be brought forward now. The alternative would be to face the likelihood that the Commission would have insufficient funds available to enable it to hold its present reserve prices. The Government is not willing to take that course, lt believes that the disruption to the wool market likely to result from abandonment of the Commission's reserve prices would result in a further fall in wool prices and make recovery more difficult. It would also result in an increase in the financial commitment for deficiency payments which, if prices during the rest of the season remain at present average levels, is estimated to be just over $t00m. Were further funds not provided to the Commission to maintain its present reserve prices, it is a matter of speculation what the resultant fall in prices and consequent increase in deficiency payments might be. If the fall were to average 6c per pound, the additional commitment for deficiency payments would be about $65m. 
Looking further ahead, to 1972-73 and subsequent years, it is clear that the level of support provided to the wool industry this year, through deficiency payments and the Commission's reserve price operations, cannot be continued. No industry can expect an open-ended commitment on the part of the Government and the taxpayer. The wool industry has been advised by the Acting Minister for Primary Industry thai proposals it is developing for the Government's consideration must be realistically based and take fully into account the likely relationship between market demand and prospective supplies. The measures adopted this year will cushion the effects of the decline in the wool market and give time for adjustment to the new circumstances to be worked out. But for the future the Government will be seeking long-term solutions, including thorough investigation of the possibilities of supply management. 
The Government hopes that in the period between now and the end of the 1971-72 wool selling season there will be a marked strengthening of demand and that the outlook for 1972-73 will be one of confidence. The Government and the industry must, however, plan for the eventuality that the trend will not be as favourable. For the present the Government has decided that the Wool Commission should continue to operate on the basis of its current fixed reserve price policies and that the Commission should be given access to additional funds to enable it to do so. The funds to be appropriated by this Bill are for that purpose, and 1 commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Patterson)  adjourned. 
 It is natural that there will be criticisms of the way in which we respond to economic problems. That is politics. But it is almost ludicrous that the Labor Opposition should move this motion. It has given no indication that it has any economic policy at all. Yet it now claims this panacea for our current economic problems. The panacea consists of grabbing every criticism and making it its own. There was some uncertainty yesterday whether the Opposition would launch this motion. That is not surprising. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  touring the country on his mid-term election campaign, had no economic programme at all for Australia. I heard the campaign described as a fairy floss campaign: One lick and it vanished. I think the first licking was received on industrial relations. Where was his policy on economic management? Where were his solutions to one of this country's most serious problems - inflation? All his proposals would feed it. Not once has be called for wage restraint. He dares not. 
This is not the first time this has happened. He made a long speech in replyto the Budget. But there was no analysis of the causes of inflation. An opposition can attempttoobtain political advantage out of difficult international and domestic economic circumstances. But it can be regarded as responsible only if it has an economic platform for examination and review. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  catalogued his list of economic goals. He has made a series of suggestions. He does not examine reaction and interaction. 
As briefly as possible, I will deal with his 6 economic goals directly. The first goal was that of full employment. What is his figure for full employment? Is it 1.14 per cent? He mentioned price stability. What is his attitude towards price stability? It is our major policy direction to achieve price stability. That is the essential element of the Budget. Does he find that a rate of growth of almost 5 per cent justifies censure of the Government? 
Taking a 12 per cent gross national product growth from which the honourable member says must be deducted 71/2 per cent, on his own figures, although he may not be very good at sums, that still amounts to a 41/2 per cent growth. It is the wrong way of calculating growth, but even as the honourable member calculates it, it is a real growth rate of 41/2 per cent. He says he wants efficient use of resources. That is exactly what this Government wants and it is why it is pursuing these policies. It wishes to see that there is more efficient use of resources in a situation where there is not such a buoyancy of demand that there is no spur to efficiency. He wants equitable distribution of income. I am surprised that he is arguing in favour of the employers and profit margins. I have never heard him do so before. But if he looks at the statistics to which he has given a great deal of study he will know that the share of wages, salaries and supplements was 161/2 per cent in the June quarter and 15 per cent in the September quarter. Profits, on the other hand, were 34 per cent for the first quarter, rising to 6 per cent in the September quarter. Presumably he wants that corrected. It is a strange proposition coming from him. 
The honourable member talks of balance of payment equilibrium. Would he now take a decision on the parity for our currency? Would he dare do that?If he does, let him say so now, for there would be no doubt that he would be acting against the interests of Australia and acting in a positively foolish manner to take that decision now. In the course of these economic goals about price stability and the equitable distribution of incomes which he spelt out, does he embrace an income-prices policy? If he does, let him say so directly. There has never been a word out of his mouth in relation to that subject. 
There is no real substance to the motion when it is measured against the totality of the Government's economic policies and the facts of the economic situation. This is true whether we consider immediate policies or the Government's longer term policies and the high objectives these policies are designed to achieve. Confronted with an alarming inflationary trend, the Government formulated its Budget to attack inflation and at the same time to ensure the continuance of economic growth. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports has certified that that was the correct policy to attack inflation and has acknowledged that the Government has achieved real growth. These 2 things were the central elements of the Budget policy announced in this House. There has been some considerable misunderstanding of the Budget strategy which I expressed in my Budget speech to be 'to combat the inflationary forces now running in the economy' yet 'not discourage the real growth of the economy'. 
It has been asserted that the Budget was designed to depress demand. True, it was an essential element of the Budget to avoid excess demand, but it is not true that the Budget strategy was to depress demand. The Government wishes to avoid the development of a situation of intense competition for resources, including labour, and excess competition in the market for consumer goods. If those conditions exist there can be no avoiding inflation of costs and prices. Who needs reminding that such conditions are in nobody's interests except those who profit by speculation, or that great social harm and economic costs are involved? Inflation imposes great social burdens on the family man, the low income earner and those on fixed incomes while our rural producers and our manufacturing exporters selling on world markets know the economic problems of inflation. If unchecked, inflation will undermine our present living standards and erode the capacity and promise we have for the future. 
The Government is committed to fighting inflation. No-one can sensibly challenge that commitment. To do so would be to deny the interests of all in the community except the clever and the powerful. The background to the problem shows the emergence of an accelerating trend in wage costs. Average earnings rose by 5.8 per cent, 7.5 per cent and 8.4 per cent in the 3 successive years to June 1970. By then demand was running towards excess, employment was over-full and consumer prices were accelerating. Quite properly and with widespread support the Government acted, through a combination of fiscal and monetary policies, to meet those inflationary developments. There were some signs of success. Prices and wage costs both seemed to be in the process of moderating, lt is unfortunately a matter of history that, in the event, price increases did not moderate in 1970-71. On top of the 6 per cent increase granted in the national wage case there were large rises in other award and over-award payments as well as a strong rise in the prices of imports. It is no wonder that a startled public saw consumer price increases amounting to over 6 per cent per annum. 
The Government, in early 1971, took action to impose restraint in areas where restraint seemed to be necessary - public spending, private investment in new plant and equipment and non-dwelling building construction. Given this background it was natural that, accompanying the strategy adopted in the last Budget, was an element designed to guard against the future development of excess demand pressures. The more especially so because we had a very high level of liquidity, soaring savings and every prospect of continuing high wage increases - all the factors which pe-rmit, in appropriate circumstances, a surge of consumer spending. If it be accepted, as it must be, that our problem was difficult anyway, it would have become impossible with the classical demand pull inflation dumped on top. 
Now, 3 months later, when liquidity is even higher, savings have grown still bigger and wage claims continue to be won, nothing has happened which causes the Government to weaken its resolve to tackle inflation. Equally, we have not retreated from my statement in the Budget Speech in which I said: 
We will be keeping the whole situation under very close review ... so as to make any adjustments in policy which might prove necessary. 
This has been reiterated by the Prime Minister and by myself. This statement contains an important principle of economic management. Short-term economic policy involves a measured response to changing circumstances. An economy is dynamic, flexible and continually moving. A growing economy such as ours is going to show variation and change; thus it must be expected that policy will require adjustment from time to time. That is our position. That was the view I put in the Budget Speech. To see it otherwise is to misunderstand the position. A flexible approach does not mean abandoning our objectives; it means adjusting in a measured way to changing circumstances. It follows, contrary to assertion, that any economic action we may take would not negate the whole Budget strategy. 
It is quite unreal to believe that a government presenting a budget is committed totally and without any margin for flexibility until the following August. No government could adopt such a stance, and we certainly have not. We have demonstrated this flexibility. As the Prime Minister indicated not so long ago, we have taken measures to ease financial conditions. We have confirmed the lower pattern of yields on Commonwealth bonds which had emerged in the market, and in the significantly lower rates of interest on securities offered in the recent November Commonwealth loan. These reduced yields were welcomed as working towards easing the cost of finance to the private sector. We have also eased restraints on bank lending. The Reserve Bank, after consultation with the Government, informed the trading banks that no objection would be raised to some increase in the level of their new lending to enable them to take advantage of their improved liquidity prospects. 
But let me return to the continuing problem of inflation. We know that cost increases are readily translated into price increases where demand is unduly strong. Equally, we know that conditions in the wage-fixing sphere as they now exist mean that wage rises in one sector of the economy are quickly translated into other sectors and throughout the economy. As a Government we have opposed, and will continue to oppose, excessive wage claims wherever the opportunity arises. We intervened in the carpenters case in an effort to stem as far as possible the flow-on from the large metal trades award to other areas of the economy. We opposed in the strongest possible terms the claims made in the annual leave case - claims which, if granted in their entirety, would mean a rise in wage costs perhaps even larger than the 1970 national wage case decision. We will intervene in the national wage case listed for early next year to argue in the strongest terms the necessity for wage restraint. But, just as demand management is not the whole answer, wage restraint is not the whole answer either. It is an essential but not sufficient requirement for price and cost stability. 
Many sectors of Australian industry lack the spur of real competition as a stimulus towards greater productive effort. We have looked for ways of strengthening competitive forces from within and without the economy. That we have had some success may be measured by the pressures from some sources to return to the comfortable days of the 'boom', which is when our present problems were born. We have introduced legislation banning the practice of resale price maintenance. Although the results of this action are not readily quantifiable, I am confident that it wilt contribute to a general environment conducive to a moderation in the rate of inflation. 
In the same manner the Government has set in hand a progressive review of the tariff. By ensuring that protection is made available only when it is needed for economic and efficient industry - in particular, by eliminating 'unused' protection - the review could have a salutary effect in moderating the ability of businesses to accede to inflationary wage pressures and pass on the resultant cost increases in the form of higher prices or, where it occurs, to seek increased profits through unjustifiable price increases. Further, following the High Court of Australia's decision in the concrete pipes case, the Government has introduced legislation to overcome the constitutional defects that were found to exist in the Trade Practices Act, while it completes its examination of ways of strengthening the legislation. 
In recognition of the role higher productivity can play in combating inflation in the short term and making living standard advances in the longer term, the Government has promoted training schemes both generally and in specific areas. These are longer term measures, of course. It would be wrong to suppose that they will produce dramatic results overnight. But they are, I believe, vital components of any antiinflationary strategy. 
I tura now to deal with the remarkable level of capital inflow into Australia, which was referred to yesterday by the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  and which has been referred to today by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports. The type of statements they make about capital inflow are quite uninformed. Capital inflow was about S 1,400m to September 1971 compared with about $850m for the same period last year. A good deal of work has been done by the Reserve Bank of Australia to find out some of the ways in which the very large increase in 1971 has come about. It has analysed the exchange control approvals. Total approvals for the period were $l,630m, of which $3 20m was for the acquisition of shares, etc. - about the same as last year - and $1,3 10m was for loans, which was $760m more than for the same period a year earlier. It is clear that a major part of the extra inflow was in the form of loans. 
That, I think, negates the proposition put yesterday by the honourable member for Lalor that if the present position keeps up we will wake up one day and find Australia owned by foreigners. That is a nice emotive phrase but it bears no semblance to reality. Some of the approvals were loans from overseas principals to companies in Australia which they wholly or partly owned. Some $770m of loan approvals was for borrowings from all overseas sources by companies which have substantial overseas ownership. But $540m was for borrowings abroad by companies predominantly Australian owned. The last figure increased sharply from a level of $110m in the corresponding period of the year before. It is clear that Australian owned businesses have found it possible to borrow abroad much more freely in 1971 for the development of their own projects. 
Two other comments about the inflows can be added from this source of analysis. Firstly, the approvals of loans connected with mineral developments have continued to be very substantial. Secondly, there is some indication that the periods for the repayment of borrowings approved have tended to lengthen. The analysis shows that of the loan approvals for which repayment schedules are available almost onehalf provide for repayments after a period of more than 18 months. Where is all this hot money? 'Hot money' is described internationally as money that comes into a country for a very short stay in order to attack a currency and force a change in the parity so that a capital gain can be made. There is no evidence that such a situation is occurring in Australia. The reasons for the increase in the loans are the greater sophistication of loan companies in the non-bank area in Australia to raise money and also, of course, the confidence that people overseas have in Australia. The most significant reason, in fact, for the inflow is the confidence others feel about Australia's future. It is paradoxical that the range of statistics and onthespot reporting which builds that confidence are somehow interpreted by many here as cause for despondency. 
Three months after the Budget what do the figures show as being the health of the economy today? The Commonwealth Statistician's national accounts for the September quarter have just been released. True, they have been thrust aside by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports. Others will find them of great importance for they are the most comprehensive figures for the economy as a whole that we currently possess. They show the gross national product increasing over the past year. September to September, by 12 per cent in money terms, and an acceleration in the real growth of the economy. They show the nation's exports booming, with a rise of  ISi  per cent over the year; private investment spending up 14 per cent; houses up - well up on last year. They show wages up by 15 per cent and a recovery in business incomes. These figures are not cause for gloom or despair. It would be absurd to look at these figures and suggest the economy is in disarray. It is no wonder that the honourable member for Melbourne Ports cavalierly swept them aside from his consideration. 
I now deal with 2 factors of our economy which have been given opposite treatment by commentators. The first factor is that our economy is growing and growing well. In 1970-71 real output grew by almost 4 per cent and the September quarter of the national accounts, to which I referred, shows that growth, if anything, is gaining strongly. This is a good performance by current international standards, especially when the problems of the rural downturn are taken into account. The United States economy grew hardly at all last year. The output of the United Kingdom is growing by only 2 per cent and that of Germany by scarcely more. Some Western European countries are doing worse than that. Even Japan, hailed as the miracle economy, is unlikely to achieve, some say, its revised growth target of about 5 per cent this year. So let us not sell ourselves short. Our current growth performance, in the face of the problems which we face in the rural sector, measured by what would have been possible in the past in like circumstances is an extremely good and creditable one. 
We have also, at least until recently, been doing relatively well in the battle against inflation compared with other countries. Comparing the average price level in 1968 with the average 3 years later we see that there was a rise of just over 1 1 per cent in Australia. This, we acknowledge, was too high. This is what our strategy is to tackle. But there are few developed economics which could match us and many did much worse, such as Japan, where the increase over that period was 20 per cent, and France with 18 per cent, and the United Kingdom with 24 per cent. 
The second factor is unemployment. Some commentators have lost perspective on this issue of unemployment. Some have deliberately abandoned it. The fact is that unemployment is currently al about the longer term average. Over the last 15 years unemployment has averaged 1.41 per cent of the work force. The latest seasonally adjusted figure for the end of October was 1.48 per cent, and with 63,000-odd registrants 1.14 per cent actual. There is therefore nothing in the situation to take alarm at. In absolute numbers, of course, there will be an increase over the months immediately ahead as school leavers and university graduates enter the labour market and seek their niche in the work force. Over more recent years we have had a tight labour situation. This has been particularly so in the past 3 years when unemployment, averaging 1.12 per cent of the work force, was lower than in any other 3-year period in recent times. With unemployment at these ultra-low levels, conditions are such that many employers are bound to be competing against each other for scarce labour, pressure for excessive wage rises is most likely to be successful, and wage costs and hence prices are most likely to escalate. 
International trading circumstances which have brought a downturn in world basic commodity prices - recently made more difficult by world monetary problems - have brought in their train difficult conditions in the rural areas. There are very real problems which have resulted in diminished prosperity and demand in that sector. In consequence, there has been a tightening of job opportunities so that unemployment in the non-metropolitan areas now totals almost 29,000 compared with metropolitan unemployment of 33,000. This is structural unemployment of the geographic kind; with people committed to continue living in these areas, where there are few jobs, because of various social and psychological attachments. The Government is tackling broad rural problems which I will not detail here, but it must be recognised that general economic policies will nol substantially affect that situation. In metropolitan areas, on the other hand, there is an approximate balance between available vacancies and registrants. 
I cannot report as optimistically about the attack on inflation, although I believe we are in a position to gain ground in the struggle against rising costs and prices, while we maintain our economic strategy. An examination of the consumer price index for the September quarter shows that the rises in a number of groups were more modest than we might have expected. The food group was up by 1.1 per cent, clothing and drapery by 0.5 per cent, and household supplies and equipment by only 0.2 per cent. It was the miscellaneous group, with large rises in fares, especially in Sydney, which pushed up the total rise in the index to its 1.7 per cent. We must not expect a dramatic turnaround. Too many large cost rises have to work their way through the economy yet. The battle will not be easily won, as overseas experience shows. 
I have sketched out the essential facts of our economic reality. I have stated as clearly as I can our aims and the economic management methods adopted to achieve them. We believe that our economic policies will not discourage the real growth of the economy. There is scope for growth in the demands of the private sector. There is scope for a real lift in the standard of living which should be shared by many who would otherwise be the undefended victims of inflation and the self-seeking of stronger, more aggressive groups. 
On their own, economic policies cannot ensure that the nation's objectives are achieved. But concerned as they are with the high national objectives of social welfare, economic strength and national security, they provide the essential framework for the attainment of those national goals. There is no reason for the lack of confidence apparent in some sections of the community. The underlying strength of the Australian economy is real and I believe will be enduring. Every objective test argues this when compared with past performance in Australia. We are doing very well by world standards, so well that it is difficult to name a country which would not willingly swap its problems for ours. 
It is no approach to the future to urge conflict between sectors and to preach fear and doom, as seems to be the Opposition's mood. That is a philosophy of despair and defeat. We have great resources, a skilled and mobile work force, many talented and devoted executives and entrepreneurs in industry and commerce. We can do better, and with the conscientious participation of all sectors in the community we will secure the nation's high objectives. The Government will do its part. This motion ought to be rejected. 
! find m&gt;-elf unable to answer either question. The best thing I can do is to have a conference with the Commonwealth Statistician. gel the answers and then provide .neill to the honourable gentlemen. 
The recitation of fact before the questions which were asked was, I think, largely correct as I heard it. [n broad terms there has been a down-turn in the rural areas. As 1 said yesterday, this is a consequence of world trading conditions and commodity prices which have been worsened by financial problems throughout the world. The number of unemployed in country areas is,  as  the honourable gentleman said, relatively much higher than in metropolitan areas where there is roughly a balance between vacancies and registrants. I will give consideration to the proposals that the honourable gentleman has made about his particular brand of stimulating demand in the non-metropolitan area, the rural areas. I would not want him to think that one or two of them have much prospect of success, such as the first one. In regard to the removal of the wine tax, I remind the honourable gentleman that tho honourable member for Angas has been campaigning as strongly in this matter as has the honourable member for Kalgoorlie in relation to the gold subsidy. The best I can do is to indicate to the honourable gentleman that I will examine his question in detail and write him a letter about it. 
I have constantly had drawn to my attention the difficulties which local government bodies in country areas are experiencing, again because of the down-turn in rural areas. But already the Commonwealth has made a significant contribution to local government bodies. When we turned over payroll tax to the States we agreed with the States that we, the Commonwealth, would finance the amount of payroll tax foregone by local government authorities, in that we would deduct less from the total States grants than would otherwise be the case. In this way local government authorities do not have to pay payroll tax on their non-business activities. If my memory is correct, the amount involved will be $6m in this financial year, and it will be $8m in a full financial year. 
But the Commonwealth constantly has taken the view - and I believe it to be the right view- thai local government bodies are set up under State legislation and that within our Federal system it is the State governments' responsibility to take care of the problems facing local government authorities. To do otherwise would be to change very significantly the Federal system. Therefore, we have pursued the policy of providing the State governments with adequate finance. In fact, if the honourable gentleman will cast his mind back to June 1970 when the States grants formula was revised, he will recall that there was a very sharp jump in the funds made available to the States. Since then, in March of this year, the Prime Minister called a Premiers Conference and $43m was given to the States to help them overcome their budgetary problems. Then at the Premiers Conference in June the States received an additional $40m, as well as the right to collect payroll tax, which gave them more than $22m. In other words, the amount of money received by the States in totality has jumped immensely, and this money has been provided in pursuance of our policy to ensure that the States shall receive enough money to take care of their responsibilities. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2)  Sir William  Gunn has been a member of the Reserve Bank Board since it was constituted in January I960. He was previously a member of the Commonwealth Bank Board from August 1952. The Reserve Bank of Australia has provided the following information: 
The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
and (3) The information requested Ls not available to me. 
There is a specific provision in the income tax legislation which applies to an Australian business controlled by nen-reside,its. Section 136 of the Income Tax Assessment Act provides that, where it appears to the Commissioner of Taxation that- the business produces either no taxable income or less than the amount of taxable inco.no which might be expected to arise from the business, the person carrying on the business in Australia shall be liable to pay income lax on a taxable income of such amount of the total receipts of the business as the Commisioner determines. In the case of a business which sells minerals overseas, the export price charged c-nd ruling world prices would be factors taken into account in determining whether Section 136 is applicable. 
- The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following table shows income received in Australia in recent years by (a) all life offices and (b) predominantly overseas-controlled life offices. The figures, which have been derived from statutory returns made under the Life insurance Act 1945-1965 by registered life insurance companies, relate to the amount of life insurance premiums and investment income, net of income tax, received on account of policies in Australian registers. They do not include transfers of moneys to Austraiian statutory life insurance funds, profits made on sale of assets and some small miscellaneous items. As the financial years of 
The  answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There is no special sales tax exemption available to amateur sporting bodies. Unless goods  purchased by them are of an exempt kind, e.g., clothing and footwear, they are obliged to bear the sales tax payable on their purchases. 
The Government considered the exemption of sporting equipment, along with other classes of goods, during the preparation of the 1971-72 Budget but decided that any tax concessions 
The  answer to  the hon  ourable member's question is as follows: 
No. This information is not included in returns furnished to the Insurance Commissioner. 
The  answer to the  hon  ourable member's question is as follows: 
No. This information is not included in returns furnished to the Insurance Commissioner. 
The  answer to the hon ourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Interest rates and their relationship to the Government's economic policies have been the subject of questions, debate and ministerial comment on many occasions over the past year. In addition, the Reserve Bank has discussed interest rate policy in its Annual Report, in other statements and in the course of public lectures given by the Governor and senior officers of the Bank. In these circumstances, it is not considered necessary to publish a White Paper on the subject. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. This information is not included in returns furnished  to  the Insurance Commissioner. 
 The answer to the honurable member's question is as follows: 
Under the income tax law, a taxpayer who is a resident may be entitled to a concessional deduction if he contributes to the maintenance of any of the following dependants who are residents of Australian, namely, the spouse of the taxpayer, a daughter-housekeeper, a child less than 16 years of age, a student child, an invalid relative and a parent of the taxpayer or of his spouse. The maintenance deduction otherwise allowable in respect of a dependant is reduced by the amount by which the separate net income of the dependant exceeds $130. No deduction is allowable in respect of a dependant who does not qualify as a resident of Australia. 
In the case of a migrant taxpayer with a dependent wife and children oversells, it is the administrative practice of the Commissioner of Taxation to treat the wife and children also as residents of Australia if the taxpayer intends to bring them to this country. Concessional deductions  are  allowed for a period of up to 5 years on the basis that this period provides sufficient lime to enable the taxpayer to make the necessary transport and accommodation arrangements. If the dependants have not taken up physical residence inAustralia after5 years, the concessional deductions are discontinued on the grround that there are no indications that the dependants intend migrating to Australia. 
The allowance of deductions for expenditure falling within the scope of the concessional deductions . provisions is not conditional upon the expenditure being incurred in Australia. '1 he basic requirement is that the taxpayer himself be a resident of Australia. Expenditure in this category comprises life 'assurance and superannuation fund contributions; medical, funeral and education expenses; and contributions to medical and hospital benefits funds. However, in the case of medical or funeral expenses incurred in respect of a dependant, a deduction is allowable only if the dependant is also a resident of Australia or was a resident at the time of death. 
Commonwealth Securities (Question No. 4644)  &gt;Jr Bryant  asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
 Will he provide a statement, using the latest figures available, showing the principal holders of 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Preliminary figures for. .principal holders of Commonwealth Government securities on issue in Australia at 30th September 1971 arc as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Acting Commonwealth Statistician has supplied the following table in reply to the honourable member's question. The figures have been prepared on the same basis as those provided in answer to the previous question on the same subject asked by the honourable member (Hansard, 30th October 1970, page 3192), and are consistent with the figures for current account receipts shown in Tables 5, 10 and 11 of the Budget paper National Income and Expenditure 1970-71'. 
It is proper practice to assess the costs of a wide range of proposals. I will make inquiries as to whether or not these have been costed. 
I have taken note of the request made by the honourable gentleman. I will consider it in the context of the very wide ranging claims that are made for exemption of certain types of income from income tax. I will put the request in that context, weigh it against all the others and then make a balanced judgment as to the extra imposition of income tax which of necessity will have to be made on the community in broad in order to achieve that exemption. The matter will be taken into account at the next consideration of this subject. 
The suspension of the investment allowance was a decision taken by the Government in February this year to meet economic circumstances. Implicit in the honourable gentleman's question is the suggestion that the restoration of the investment allowance would of itself contribute to increased productivity. That is a statement which is subject to debate. 
The  answer  to the hon  ourable member's question is as follows: 
The Acting Commonwealth Statistician has supplied the following information in reply to the honourable member's question. 
There are no official statistics that show the total number of employees (adults and juniors, males and females) in Australia classified by weekly earnings groups. However the results of the Survey of Weekly Earnings of adult male employees which was conducted in May 1971, give statistics relevant to the honourable member's question. 
These results are representative of 2,180,000 full-time adult male employees whose normal hours of work are 30 or more a week and who were paid for their full normal hours of work at the time of the survey. 
The survey excluded employees of private employers not subject to pay-roll tax; employees in rural industry and private domestic service; employees of religious, benevolent and other similar organisations exempt from pay-roll tax; and waterside workers employed on a casual basis. Further details concerning this survey are published in the statistical bulletin, Survey of Weekly Earnings, May 1971 (Preliminary Results), Reference No. 6.29. 
The classification of weekly earnings groups specified in the survey for managerial, etc. staff differed from that specified for non-managerial employees. In combining the 2 classifications, 18,200 managerial etc. staff reported as earning up to $79.99' have been included in the '$75.00 to$79.99' group. Thus the figures for all earnings groups below $80 are subject to some distortion. 
The following table is taken from the publication of preliminary results of the survey. Because some of the weekly earnings specified in the honourable member's question do not correspond with the earnings groups limits shown in the survey results, the whole of the earnings groups data for Australia (for the combination of managerial and other employees) has been included. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Government has arranged for the preparation of amending legislation to curtail the income tax benefits which encourage companies to engage in operations of the type that were the subject of the High Court decision mentioned. In a statement realeased through the press on 31st August 1971,I announced a proposal to change the basis of calculating tax rebates on dividends received after that date as part of a dividend-stripping operation. A bill relating to the proposal will be brought before the Parliament as soon as practicable. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have interpreted the honourable member's question as relating to'The Australian Economy', the 'Treasury Information Bulletin' and the 'Supplements to the Treasury Information Bulletin'. These, of course, are departmental publications and, strictly speaking, not 'White Papers'. 
The following Treasury papers in these series have been issued since 1st January 1960: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As the Prime Minister suggested in his reply, as Treasurer, to the honourable member in the House on 29th May 1969, the question of the publication by the Treasury of Supplements to the Treasury Information Bulletin is reviewed from time to time. Preparation of these documents is dependent on available manpower resources and the claims of competing tasks in the Treasury. 
The Prime Minister's reply referred to did not indicate that a Treasury paper on overseas investment in Australia would be set in preparation. The honourable member will be aware that in September 1969 detailed statements on overseas investment in Australia were made by the then Prime Minister and the then Treasurer. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Insurance Commissioner has advised that some such business has been discontinued and that the business which continues to be undertaken is not considered to be life insurance business for the purposes of the Life Insurance Act 1945-1965. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth Statistician has provided the following information: 
In 1970, 7 people (3 in New South Wales and 4 partners of the one firm in Western Australia) were prosecuted and fined for failure to supply quarterly returns to the Commonwealth Statistician. To date in 1971, 5 people (1 in New South Wales, 2 in Victoria and 2 in Western Australia) have been prosecuted and fined. The Statistician advises that as far as possible reliance is placed on persuasion rather than enforcement of the legal requirement so that prosecution is restricted to cases where there is a persistent nonresponse and there are no extenuating circumstances. 
The statistics sought in quarterly returns relate to people or businesses believed to be in a particular field of activity or to have certain characteristics. 
For some quarterly collections, returns are sought from all the people or businesses concerned. For orthers, in order to reduce the reporting burden on the group concerned, statistical sampling methods involving some form of random selection are used. It is important that returns be obtained from all businesses or persons selected in any sample, as otherwise the accuracy of the results could be seriously impaired. 
Samples are re-selected periodically to spread the requirement to provide returns more evenly over the persons or businesses concerned. As a result, persons or businesses with low levels of activity are not usually selected to provide returns in a particular collection for more than a few years. This is not necessarily the case for persons or businesses wilh a high level of activity as, under most sampling methods, they are given a higher chance of selection with the object of reducing the overall size of the sample, and thus limiting further the reporting burden on the group concerned. 
There is no provision in the Census and Statistics Act under which a person requested to provide a return or information, whether for a complete or partial collection, may seek exemption from furnishing that return. Where, however, exceptional cases come under notice (for example, where a person may be incapable of complying, or is under special personal stress) special and appropriate steps are taken to provide relief. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Quarterly estimates of average weekly earnings per employed male unit are calculated by dividing the total wage and salary earnings received by civilian employees during each quarter by the mean monthly number of employees (measured in terms of male equivalent units) in receipt of those earnings. The estimates are derived from particulars of employment and wages and salaries recorded on montly payroll tax returns, or reported in direct statistical collections. In addition to salary and wage payments at award rates, the total earnings include the earnings of employees not covered by awards, overtime earnings, over-award and bonus payments, payments made in advance or retrospectively during the period, etc. The figures relate to earnings, before deduction of income tax contributions. They include an allowance for the earnings of persons holding more than one job, and for the estimated number of wage and salary earners in the labour force not covered by payroll tax or other monthly returns. 
Particulars of wages and salaries paid are not available for males and females separately from the sources used for this series; average weekly earnings are therefore calculated in terms of male units, i.e. total male employees plus a proportion of female employees, the proportion being determined by the estimated ratio of female to male average earnings. Different values of this ratio are used for the several States, the weighted average for Australia being approximately52.5 per cent. The level of this ratio is affected by the factthat the proportion of females in lower paid occupations is greater than that for males, and that overtime and over-award payments constitute a higher proportion of male than of female earnings. 
In calculating seasonally adjusted estimates allowance is made not only for seasonal factors but also for the varying incidence of pay-days. Seasonal adjustments factors are estimated from a series adjusted to allow for the effects of major awards and determinations of Commonwealth and State industrial authorities. The effects of these awards and determinations are retained in the seasonally adjusted data. 
There are no statistics that show the number and percentage of employees who earn at or above the level of the average weekly earnings index. However, the results of a Survey of Weekly Earnings of adult male employees which was conducted during May 1971 give statistics relevant tothe honourable member's question. 
These results are representative of 2,180,000 full-time adult male employees whose normal hours of work are 30 or more a week and who were paid for their full normal hours of work during the survey period. 
The estimated numbers and percentage of these fulltime adult males who earned the average weekly total earnings (as estimated in this Survey, or more in the pay-period which included 12th May 1971, are set out in the table below. The estimates are based on the assumption that, for the total weekly earnings group in which the average weekly total earnings figure falls, employees are evenly distributed. 
The survey excluded employees of private employers not subject to pay-roll tax; employees in rural industry and private domestic service; employees of religious, benevolent and other similar organisations exempt from pay-roll tax; and waterside workers employed on a casual basis. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Acting Commonwealth Statistician has supplied the following information  in  reply to the honourable member's question: 
Statistics on overseas investment  in  Australia classified by industry were not compiled for years prior to 1956-57. They are available for subsequent years for direct investment but not for portfolio investment and institutional loans. 
In the accompanying tables, Table A shows, for years ended June 1950, 1960, 1965 and 1970, details of the total net inflow of private overseas investment in companies in Australia and total income payable overseas on this investment. Table b shows, for the 3 years ended June 1960, 1965 and 1970 and for each of the 3 industry sectors specified, details of foreign direct investment from retained profits (undistributed income), new foreign direct investment (other direct investment), and income payable overseas on direct investment (including undistributed income). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Taxpayers are not required to state their ages on income tax return forms unless they wish to claim, under the age allowance provisions, exemption from income tax or a reduction in income tax otherwise payable. 
Accordingly, the only income tax statistics which indicate the age of taxpayers are those relating to taxable individuals who completed the age allowance part of the income tax return form, i.e. certain male taxpayers aged 65 years and over and certain female taxpayers aged 60 years and over. Statistics of taxable individuals whose income tax was reduced by the age provisions for the 1969-70 income year are shown below. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Reserve Bank has informed me that the answer is 'None'. 
Commonwealth-State Housing Scheme  (Question No, 4237) 
The honourable gentleman mentioned the date on which it was introduced. My recollection from studying gift duty proposals is that when it was introduced it had a twofold purpose. One was to raise revenue but the other was to avoid dispersal of property in order to avoid other taxes - for example, income tax or death duty, lt is true, as the honourable gentleman said, that the exemption limit has been raised in the past. The last time this matter was considered was at the time of the formulation of the last Budget, but it was not felt possible at that lime to make any lift in the exemption levels. As a result of the honourable member's question, 1 will keep it in my mind when the next Budget is being formulated. 
I do not recall seeing this particular suggestion. The honourable member made 3 points in his question. The first, related to an income-prices policy; the second concerned providing a boost to the economy; and the third was directed to a suggested meeting between the Government, unions and industry. 1 should like to deal with these points successively. A prices-income policy, of course, is not something that boosts an economy. On the contrary it is seen as something which is an addition to the armoury for fighting inflation. As to whether it is an effective and the best means of doing it is a matter for debate. Recently I made a quite longish address which dealt quite exhaustively with the 3 elements of an incomes-prices policy - firstly, the period for which it would operate, secondly, the matters it would cover in terms of incomes and prices, and thirdly, the method of enforcement, as to whether it was voluntary or compulsory or in the ground in between. Those are the matters which should be studied by those who advocate an incomes-prices policy. I was at pains to point out all the ramifications and difficulties associated with such a policy, and I will make a copy of my remarks available to the honourable gentleman. 
The second point was the question of providing a boost to the economy. Our attitudes on that matter were made very clear in the debate on the Opposition's censure motion last week, and at question time I will not expand upon them. The third point concerned a meeting between the Government, unions and industry. I do not favour a meeting because the Government has the responsibility for managing the economy and it cannot abrogate that responsibility to any other body. On the other hand, we are anxious and willing and in fact do receive all sorts of representations from industry, unions and commerce generally, and I will be glad to continue to receive them and to give them consideration. 
 Mr Speaker,  there was some difficulty in hearing the honourable member's question, which related to a very important issue. Rather than ask the honourable member to repeat it, I will get the context of his question from Hansard and give him a detailed reply. 
I have received no notice of registration of any of these activities. If I may, I will deal with only 2 of them, namely hire purchase companies and banks, because they were the 2 named by the honourable member. Let me deal first with banks. To carry on a banking business in Australia it is necessary to have the approval of the Treasurer. It is not something which is simply done because the grant of the authorisation to carry on a banking business must be very jealously guarded in the interests of the public so that the depositors will be protected. There must therefore be proper conduct of the banking business and proper backing of assets. I have had no such application. If I received such an application I would, of course, give it consideration, but it would have to comply with all those tests which have been in the banking legislation for very many years in the interests of the public. So far as any hire purchase activity is concerned, I have to remind the House that this is in the non-bank sector. There are no specific provisions in relation to them- 
The Leader of the Opposition reminds us of his legal background with the interjection. I acknowledge it. There is a great deal of activity in the non-bank sector and the representatives of the finance groups come and speak to the representatives of the Treasury regularly. They follow very responsible policies. The interesting thing about the proposition so far as I understand it is that  Mr Hawke  would endeavour to bring overseas money into Australia for this purpose. It seems to me- 
Pursuant to section 10 of the International Monetary Agreements Act 1947. 1 present the report on the operations of that Act and of the operations, insofar as they relate to Australia, of the International Monetary Fund and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the year ended 30th June 1971. 
Like everybody else,I am concerned about the prevalence of lung cancer and heart disease, but whether those diseases are directly caused by cigarette smoking I do not know. So farI have not seen any conclusive evidence to that effect and, as I understand the position,  there is still argument on the question. The balance of opinion seems to be that there isa direct causal connection. If this is so I would think it is more a matter for the Department of Health. I do not favour the use of revenue procedures to encourage or discourage something which relates directly to the health of the community. However, I will give close attention to the honourable gentleman's question to see whether the course he suggests is practicable. 
The honourable gentleman has every right to be concerned about this matter. I am also concerned about it. There is a difficulty involved here in that the Norfolk Island administration and the Norfolk Island people feel very strongly that companies should set up there because this provides considerable revenue for Norfolk Island. My colleague, the Minister for External Territories, naturally enough is concerned for the interests of the people of Norfolk Island. For my part I am very concerned that Norfolk Island, which already shows promise of becoming a very considerable tax haven, should not be allowed to develop in that way, for if it does it will only enrich some companies and add a considerable burden to the taxpayers of Australia. The consequence is that I have had a thorough investigation of this matter made by the Taxation Office and Treasury officers. As a consequence I have a paper of considerable size, containing very many pages, which has been submitted to a committee of Ministers who deal with tax matters. Unfortunately it has not been possible, to consider the report of the investigation within the last week or two, but that committee will be called together as soon as possible, for the purpose of reaching conclusions about it so that it can be recommended for the consideration of the Government. 
I do. .not think it is .' simply because of high interest rates in Australia. In reality interest rates in Aust tralia fit about in the middle of the interest rate spectrum of all countries in. the world. Very considerable differences in interest rates are found in other countries between the short-term market and the long-term market. There is a very much bigger difference between the low and high rates in other countries than there ls in Australia where interest rates tend to 'be in a closer band. But the' level of interest rates may well have been one of the" factors. For instance the interest rate in /Switzerland is quite low although access to that market is not easy. But inquiries.' .1 have made show' that' it is  difficult to obtain money from overseas at a more advantageous interest rate than it can be obtained in Australia. The reason for the. borrowings overseas nas' been that there has been a . . greater demand for finance for development projects than we generate ourselves in Australia. The reason : for that is, of course, our rapid rate of growth. I think one of the major, reasons for the increase in borrowings was that there has developed over the last 2 or 3 years a , very marked improvement in the sophistication of the merchant banking area which has been able to make contacts with, overseas sources of capital, put the capital together and make it available to projects in Australia which, prior to that event, just did not have the expertise to use or the entrance into those overseas capital markets. They have now managed to achieve that and that is one of the major reasons for the inflow. 
I do not know to which report the honourable gentleman refers in particular. I have seen a number of papers from the Taxation Office in general on tax minimisation including that element which is tax minimisation arising out of the use of havens outside Australian territory. It is a matter which  conerns  me and indeed it concerns every country in the world, whether the haven is a total haven or half haven or whatever it is. It is not an easy problem to cure, but it is one of which the taxation officers are very well aware and so am 1. 1 have decided that we ought first to approach that area upon which we have undoubted legislative power, and that is in relation to our own Territories. Hence the priority of Norfolk Island remains higher. 
There has 'riot been any approach to Britain or France of which I am aware. There may have been an approach at an officer level of which I am not aware. 
I would like to take the opportunity of saying that that part of the Treasury con- .  cerned  with tax policy and the Taxation Office are staffed by experts of the highest quality but unfortunately there are not enough of these people who have the expertise to handle all the problems that come up at the same time. 
Later today I will be introducing some legislation which will move to cure 2 areas of tax minimisation - that is the wrong use df public companies or what purport to be public companies and dividend stripping. When one considers the amount of work that has to be put into the preparation of such measures by expert officers in the Taxation Office and the Treasury and Parliamentary Counsel, I am sure that the honourable gentleman will understand the degree of difficulty we have in these mat ters. We now have another programme of action which will follow on to other areas. When work on the Norfolk Island situation is finished I will look at the other matter. 
I have been giving consideration to this matter. The elements involved are what sort of issues should be looked at by such a committee and, if a committee were appointed, to what degree must it be serviced by, the very same officers who are doing the work themselves and to what extent, therefore, would it detract from the work performance of those officers. Unfortunately, like parliamentary counsel, these experienced officers cannot just be created. They are of a special type, being a combination of intellect and character. The other thing which these officers are involved in at present, and this is by chance, is the negotiation of a series of double tax agreements. For a number of years we did not have them, but we are now in the course of vigorously achieving them. We have a list of countries in order of priority, so to speak, and the same sort of officers are used in that pursuit. I will continue an examination to see whether they can be helped by an outside committee without detracting from their work performance. 
 I move: 
That me Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to give effect to amendments to the income tax law foreshadowed in 2 separate announcements I made earlier this year. Each announcement followed a decision of the High Court which showed a weakness in the present law of which taxpayers were taking advantage to avoid - quite legally - large amounts of tax which, in accordance with the policy of the legislation as approved by the Parliament, it was intended they should pay. 
The Bill is therefore one directed wholly against legal tax avoidance. This is a subject about which the Government is generally concerned at the present time and which it is closely examining in various aspects. The Bill is an important one, dealing in part with the most difficult question of providing effective legislative tests which separate the genuine public company from the ostensible public company for taxation purposes. It will not be practicable to debate the Bill in these sittings but the Government considered it should nevertheless be introduced now. There will thus be provided a full opportunity for the terms of the Bill to be considered within the Parliament and outside it before the debate takes place. 
Before the amending legislation of 1964, based on the recommendations of the Commonwealth Committee on Taxation 1959-1961, there had been considerable legal tax avoidance through essentially private companies masquerading as public companies. The 1964 legislation was intended to put an end to this. Unfortunately, as the High Court has pointed out, the 1964 amendments left a real gap. This gap has been used to obtain the same sort of unintended tax advantages for private companies as were available before the 1964 amending legislation. In broad terms, the general aim of the arrangements is to ensure that the trading profits of private companies remain taxed at the lower rate applicable to those companies but that the profits are distributed as dividends to companies that are public in a narrowly technical sense so that there is no incidence of undistributed profits tax or personal tax on shareholders in respect of the dividends. The arrangements strike at the very basis of our company tax system as it was intended by the legislature to apply. Moreover, they are highly artificial and serve no purpose other than tax avoidance. 
One type of scheme was dealt with by the High Court in the case of Casuarina Pty Ltd and ruled legally effective. Another type is known as the 'chain-of-ten" scheme and is equally effective. Each type requires co-operation between genuine public companies and private companies so that, with the help of the public companies, the private companies can pay dividends to a company which is technically a subsidiary of a public company - and therefore itself a public company - for tax purposes. Of course the arrangements also ensure that the dividends effectively remain the exlusive property of the private company interests, except, perhaps, to a very small extent which is a recompense or fee to the public company for its assistance. 
In the Casuarina arrangement, the whole essence of the matter is that at the end of the year of income the company receiving private company dividends meets all the technical tests of a subsidiary of a public company. That is to say, at that time more than 50 per cent of the capital, voting power and the rights to dividends and other distributions are in the hands of a public company shareholder. There co-exist, however, countervailing devices which ensure that any attempt by the public company shareholder to exercise its ostensible rights can easily be defeated by the private company interests so that the public company rights are, in fact, worthless. These devices include such things as the use of shares redeemable at the instance of the private company interests only, but there are many ways in which the desired effects can be achieved. 
The 'chain-of-ten' scheme takes advantage of the fact that under the present law a sub-subsidiary of a public company, no matter how remote from the head or parent company, must be treated as a public company. If a company is owned as to more than 50 per cent by a public company, and its voting power is controlled by the same company, it is treated as a subsidiary of that public company. If it, in turn, has the same measure of ownership and control in another company, that other company is also treated as a subsidiary and so on. Tn a typical chain a public company listed on the stock exchange provides a specially set up company with subsidiary status and this subsidiary sets up a chain of ten other subsubsidiaries below it. The tenth and last sub-subsidiary is the company to which the private company profits are distributed as dividends. The public company interests could force redistribution of these dividends along the chain - against the wishes of the private company interests. This is unlikely, however, because there is a 49 per cent private company ownership of each link in the chain which would result, for example, in only $119 out of $100,000 of private company profits finding its way to the listed public company at the top of the chain. The balance would all go to the private company interests. 
The Government has decided that, in the face of these arrangements, in all their complexity and their shades of organisational and factual differences one from the other, the best plan was to define primarily as a subsidiary of a public company one that is, at all times during the year of income, beneficially owned, in the fullest sense of those words, as to 100 per cent by a genuine public company, including a sub sidiary which, on these tests, is itself a public company. This the Bill proposes to do. The Bill also proposes that a company which does nol meet the 100 per cent test will not be treated as a subsidiary of a public company unless, at all times during the year of income, it is owned as to more than 50 per cent and its voting power is controlled, again in the fullest sense, by a public company listed on the stock exchange. Both direct and indirect interests will be taken into account for these purposes. 
These are necessarily stringent tests. As a safety valve against their applying inappropriately, the dispensing discretion vested in the Commissioner by the present law to treat a company as public when, for one reason or another, it fails to meet all the technical tests but should reasonably be treated as public, will remain. This is not a new administrative discretion, but one that has operated satisfactorily for some years now. 
The tests - stringent as they are on the face of it - could still be met and provide no more than a facade behind which the company is managed or conducted so as to render the public shareholding worthless or virtually so. Directors representing private interests, for example, could have the power to do this. This is a substantial difficulty which it has not been found possible to overcome both positively and comprehensively. The legislation therefore permits the Commissioner to deny public status lo a company when, having regard to specified matters relevant to the determination and set out in some detail, he is satisfied that the company's affairs are being conducted to this end. 
It is proposed by the Bill that the amendments I have so far described should basically apply so that, if the company structure had been fully established by the necessary issue of shares, etc., before 29th April 1971, the relevant company will remain a public company for the 1970-71 income year by satisfying the existing tests of a public company subsidiary. For subsequent years, however, the company will need to comply with the tests that are proposed in this Bill. Where the structure had not been established until after 28th April 1971, it is proposed that the company be treated as a private company for 1970-71 and later income years unless, of course, it meets the new tests in relation to the later years. These commencement provisions are consistent with what I said In my announcement on the matter on 28th April 1971. 
The income year 1971-72 is, therefore, the year for which, in the generality of cases, the new tests, required to be met at all times during the year, will apply. A good deal of that year has already elapsed and more will have passed before, if Parliament approves the Bill, royal assent is given to it. In recognition of this, a special transitional provision is proposed whereby a company will, with an exception I shall shortly mention, be taken to have met the tests at all times during 1971-72 if it meets them at all times during the part of that year commencing no later than one month after the date of royal assent. The exception is the case of the company which has performed the public company part in a tax avoidance arrangement of the kind against which the legislation is directed and which received private company dividends in the period of 1971-72 prior to its compilance with the new tests. 
Where a company remains a public company for the income year 1970-71, distributions made to it by a private company up  to the  end of that year will be treated as dividends paid to a public company. However, it is proposed by the Bill that any such distributions made after 28th April 1971, and before the end of the recipient company's 1970-71 income year, will not be capable of giving rise to an excess distribution to be carried forward by the private company into future years. In other words, a company will not be permitted to generate an excess distribution through excessive dividends declared under the tax avoiding arrangement in the closing stages of 1970-71, and after my announcement of the proposed amendments. 
The Bill also proposes an amendment to deal with another and different arrangement which involves avoidance of undistributed profits tax without actual distribution of profits. Under this scheme a private company issues shares to a genuine public company in return for a premium equal to the dividends the private company is able to declare. It is proposed that a dividend paid in these circumstances is not to be taken into account in determining whether the paying company has made a sufficient distribution of its profits. This amendment will apply in relation to dividends paid after today. 
As foreshadowed by my announcement of 31st August 1971, the Bill also proposes amendments to deal with dividendstripping arrangements which take advantage of the way in which the law at present requires the tax rebate on inter-company dividends to be calculated, lt is proposed that the amendments will operate in relation to dividends arising out of an arrangement which the Commissioner of Taxation is satisfied is by way of dividend-stripping. The term 'dividend-strippng' has been employed in the courts here and in the United Kingdom and has come to have a widely understood connotation in professional and financial circles. This amendment will apply to dividends paid after 31st August 1971 and, in broad terms, will permit the amount of dividends subject to rebate to be ascertained by reference to all losses and outgoings incurred in relation to the dividend-stripping arrangement as a whole. in my announcement of 31st August 1971 1 pointed out that, because of the dividend rebate provisions, a company can effectively receive other kinds of income tax-free. In addition to the dividendstripping arrangement, a recognised way of doing this is for a share trading company to take advantage of the trading stock and dividend rebate provisions of the income tax law, operating in combination, so as to reduce tax on share trading profits. The Bill proposes that where the purpose of a valuation of trading stock is to obtain this tax advantage the rebate allowable to the company is to be calculated as though, instead of the valuation of stock adopted by it, the lowest valuation that it could lawfully have chosen had been adopted. This amendment will apply in relation to assessments for the income year 1971-72 and subsequent years. 
In my announcement of 31st August 1971 1 also mentioned that the rebate is required to be calculated on a basis that can be unduly advantageous to companies not involved in any arrangement for legal lax avoidance. On this aspect of the matter the Government has received a large volume of representations and it has become quite clear that there is no simple way of altering the basis of the rebate without giving rise lo serious anomalies between different company structures. For this reason the Government has considered that it should confine the proposals of this Bill to measures directed against legal tax avoidance. An examination of the other matter will continue, paying particular regard to the exigencies of company organisation. If it is found appropriate, amending legislation to deal with the matter will be brought forward at a later time. 
A number of the provisions - unavoidably and, I think, quite appropriately - turn primarily upon the Commissioner of Taxation being satisfied as to certain matters. If the taxpayer disputes the opinion formed by the Commissioner on the facts of a particular case, the usual rights of objection and appeal against the Commissioner's decision will, of course, be open to him. A memorandum explaining technical features of the Bill is being made available for the use of honourable members. I commend the Bill to the House. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. This Bill is complementary to the Income Tax Assessment Bil] 1972 and will effect minor technical amendments to section 15 of the Income Tax (International Agreements) Act. For the purpose of implementing provisions of double taxation agreements which require us to allow tax credits, it is necessary to ascertain the amount of Australian tax payable on the relevant part of a taxpayer's income. Section 15 spells out the method by which this is to be done and refers, among other things, to rebate entitlements under section 46 of the Income Tax Assessment Act. 
As a consequence of the proposal to have an extra provision - section 46a  -  in that Act to govern rebates on dividends arising from dividend stripping operations, references to the new provision will need to be incorporated in section 15 of the Income Tax (International Agreements) Act in contexts where references to section 46 currently appear. The amendments proposed by this Bill will effect the necessary variations in this regard. They are described in more detail in an explanatory memorandum being made available for the use of honourable members which also explains the technical features of the Income Tax Assessment Bill. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on morion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
by leave - I wish to inform honourable members of the provisions which the. Government is considering including in the legislation being prepared for the supervision of general insurance companies in Australia. As I have stated previously in the House, it is not possible to introduce the proposed legislation in this session. A vast amount of ground has been covered, but a number of details have yet to be settled. In the meantime it will be helpful to all concerned if I outline in some detail the scheme of legislation which the Government has in mind. 
The essential elements can be summarised quite briefly. General insurance companies would be brought under supervision by requiring them to obtain authorities to carry on general insurance business. By 'general insurance' I mean all classes of insurance other than life insurance, which is subject to the Life Insurance Act. To obtain an authority, a company would be required to satisfy standards of financial soundness prescribed in the legislation. After receiving an authority, the company would be obliged to maintain the prescribed standards and would be subject to continuous supervision to ensure that it did so. An authorised insurer who failed to maintain the standards, or who appeared to be in danger -of falling below the standards, could be subject to inquiry and investigation, which could lead to the company being issued with such directions as were necessary to deal with the situation and, if those measures were unsuccessful, to the withdrawal of the authority. These are the basic features of the proposed scheme of legislation as it would apply permanently to companies wishing to begin insurance business after the commencement date. Existing insurers carrying on business at present would be brought under the same system of supervision by means of transitional provisions in the legislation. 
Before describing the proposed system of supervision in more detail, I have some comments to make on the purpose and scope of the scheme. 
The attitude of the Opposition to this particular Bill is quite extraordinary. This Bill was introduced to give increases of salary to those statutory officers who are equated with the Second Division of the Commonwealth Public Service. A month or so ago the Commonwealth Public Service Arbitrator considered the matter and granted a 15 per cent wage increase to Second Division officers, all of whom are members of unions. At the time that increase was granted the spokesman for the Opposition on industrial matters the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  who has just finished his contribution, welcomed that decision by the Arbitrator. That decision was then applied by the Government by way of regulation, which is the normal way in which it is done, because the Government accepted the Arbitrator's decision on the matter. As a consequence the increased wage flowed to Second Division officers. The Government decided that it was incumbent upon it, out of justice to these statutory officers who are equated with Second Division officers, to give them the same increases. The Bill passed this House. lt went to the Senate, and in the Senate there was a discrimination against members of the wage earning sector of the community who are equated with the Second Division and who historically have received the same increase as was awarded by the Arbitrator to the Second Division. Tonight, by . an extraordinary course of events, the Opposition in the Senate decided to reject something which it has consistently supported in the past. It is open to any observer to conclude why that was done. There could be only 2 alternatives. One alternative is that Opposition members acted out of pique because they tried to play politics on a matter of parliamentary salaries which has historically been approached in a bipartisan attitude. In playing politics they found that the Government was not prepared to subordinate this matter to party politics. It had to be above that. And that has been the Government's action in relation to this matter. It could only be one of two choices. The Government has been saying that the present problems of economic management in the country today are inflationary pressures which arise out of wage-push pressures mainly - not wholly I have never said wholly, but I have said mainly. That is the principal cause of it. 
The Opposition, up to this day, in deference to its relationship with the unions which have been relentlessly pushing wage claims, has been unwilling to acknowledge the fact that the inflationary pressures' flow from these ruthlessly, relentlessly pushed wage claims. Tonight we have heard the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  supported by the Opposition's spokesman on industrial matters, the honourable member for Hindmarsh acknowledged for the first time the reality of the Government's constantly asserted claim that the economic management problem today of inflationary pressures is the wage-push pressure. The Opposition has adopted the truth of that assertion. 1 welcome that. If the Opposition wishes to choose restraint I congratulate it for doing so and 1 can assure honourable members of the Opposition that if it comes to a competition in restraint the Government will be more successful and will have more to offer than they have. 
The honourable member for Hindmarsh, in a characteristic distortion of arguments speaks of the poor devils, as he described them, on S50 to $60 a week. There can be no doubt that a person receiving an income of' $50 or $60 a week is in a much less advantageous position than a person who is, for instance, a member of Parliament. 
Or on $29,000 like myself. One does not need to be a Rhodes scholar to know the difference between $50 or $60 a week and $9,500 and $29,000 a year. What the Government needs is to have compassion for the man on the small income and do what it can as a government to adopt policies which will benefit him. The Government is adopting policies to benefit him, because the person who is the most defenceless against inflation is the very poor devil of whom the honourable member talks. What can he do to defend himself when inflation is forced by relentlessly pursued wage claims by those who possess power? Those who possess power are the ones who are able to protect themselves against inflation. The people who cannot do so are the poor devils on $50 to $60 a week, more especially if their $50 or $60 a week comes from a fixed income. So the Government will pursue its policy of economic management directed towards arresting the inflationary pressures. The Government will continue to assert as strongly as it can, and give what leadership it can, in exercising restraint in this field. For by so doing it will be serving the interests of the people of Australia. 

 Mr CLYDE CAMERON (Hindmarsh)Mr  Chairman,  I have been misrepresented. I want to make a personal explanation. The Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  has stated that I applauded the Government's decision to bring in regulations in line with the Public Service Arbitrator's decision in resp ect of the Second Division officers. Lei me tell . the Treasurer, who has already served one term at least as Minister for Labour and National Service, that no law requires the Government to bring in a regulation !o give effect to a determination of the Public Service Arbitrator. He ought to read his books. At no time - never since this Parliament has been assembled - has it been necessary for a government to bring in a regulation to give effect to the Public Service Arbitrator's determination. A determination is issued by the Arbitrator in the form of a determination, and it becomes operative in that form. I repeat, no regulation is needed. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
, (c) and (d) No statistics are available that would enable reliable estimates to be made of the taxation revenue attributable to the establishment of the aluminium industry in Australia. 
The Commonwealth has made funds available to the States for purposes that include the expansion of electricity generating capacity. As the undertakings involved supply electricity to domestic users, to industry generally as well as to the aluminium industry, I am unable to state what proportion of interest received by the Commonwealth is a direct result of the increased requirement for electricity in the aluminium industry. 
Excise is not payable on soda ash and caustic soda. Import duties paid by the aluminium industry are not available separately from those paid by other users. 
Not known. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Schemes that have been declared eligible superannuation schemes are the Superannuation Fund and the Provident Account established under the Superannuation Act 1922-1971 and the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund established under the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act 1948-1971. No State schemes have  so  far been declared. 
There are no negotiations being conducted with State schemes at this time. Persons moving from the Commonwealth Superannuation Fund to most State Public Service superannuation funds may purchase with the refund of contributions received from the Commonwealth fund, the employees' share of fully paid units of pension in the State fund, and the State accepts responsibility for the employer obligation in re -peel of such units. Where such employees do noi have the opportunity of having this type of preservation arrangement applied to them, they have available a deferred benefit under the Superannuation Act 1922-1971. Thus, in either event the employees' benefits are preserved for them. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Acting Commonwealth Statistician has supplied the following information in reply to the honourable member's question. 
It is estimated that in mid-1971 the numbers of employed males and females aged 18, 19 or 20 were about 275,000 and 235,000 respectively. 
Teaching  of Asian Languages and Cultures  (Question  No. 4592)  Mr Whitlam  asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
What was the outcome of the meeting in October 1971 between the Directors-General of Education and the Secretary of his Department to discuss the report of the Advisory Committee on the Teaching of Asian Languages and Cultures, which his predecessor sent to the State Education Ministers in October 1970. (Hansard, 28th September 1971, page 1602). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) In early October the Reserve Bank, after consultation with the Government, informed the trading banks that no objection would be raised to some increase in the level of their new lending which had been under considerable restraint for a long period. When consulting with the Government about the likely impact of this measure, the Reserve Bank indicated that the possible increase in new lending above recent figures might be something of the order of $5m a week over the coming months. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Under the terms of the Gentlemen's Agreement between the Commonwealth and the States I have been, as  Chairman  of the Loan Council, in correspondence with State Premiers about the borrowings of the Australian Industry Development Corporation having regard to the special nature of the Corporation and its borrowing requirements. As particulars of Loan Council proceedings and deliberations are confidential, it would not be appropriate for me to provide details of this correspondence. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows. The information in respect of parts (a), (c), (d), (e), (f) and (h) has been provided by the Acting Commonwealth Statistician, in respect of (b) by the ReserveBank, and in respect of (g) and (i) by the Department of Housing: 
Savings Banks - The amounts actually advanced as housing loans by savings banks are not avalable but Table 1 provides details of loans approved to individuals by savings banks for housing finance during the 12 months ended 30th June 1971. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) Rebates of pay-roll tax allowed in 1970-71 related to increases in exports in the years 1963-64 to 1969-70 inclusive over exports in the relevant base periods. The yearly break-up was as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Decentralisation Advisory Committee on the Selection of Places outside the Metropolis of Melbourne for Accelerated Development was appointed by the Victorian Government. After the  Committee had reported, the Victorian Government drew the attention of the Commonwealth to the Committee's report, including the recommendations mentioned. The Commonwealth has not, however, taken any action to give effect to those recommendations. In. view of the requirement of Section SI (ii) of . the Constitution, which specifically prohibits the Commonwealth from discriminating in its- taxation laws between States or parts of States, it would in fact be unconstitutional for it to do so. 
Yes. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Payroll tax export rebates allowed in the financial year. 1970-71 amounted to $49,356,000. 
No statistics are available on pay-roll tax export rebates classified by country of destination of exports. 
(a) Since the introduction of the pay-roll tax rebate scheme for exporters, there have been considerable increases in the value and range of Australian exports. It is not possible to say, however, to what extent these increases would not have occurred in the absence  of  the rebate scheme, (b) Any benefits to Papua New Guinea from the pay-roll tax rebates scheme would depend on its being able to import a wider range of goods from Australia, perhaps at lower prices, than would otherwise have been the case. It is - not possible to quantify the value of any such benefits. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Proposals for setting up a rural finance insurance corporation have been the subject  of  continuing consultation between officers of relevant Commonwealth Departments and also with  officers of  the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation, the Reserve Bank and the Commonwealth Banking Corporation. Such consultation has taken place over a lengthy period and has not yet been completed. ' 
As for the generality of the honourable member's question, ] should add that the Minister for Primary Industry announced in the House  an  20th August last that studies were being undertaken by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics on the adequacy of existing rural credit facilities. The outcome of 'those studies will no doubt have a bearing on the question of setting up' a rural finance insurance corporation and its manner of operation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Sections 23 (ja) and 23f of the Income Tax Assessment Act exempt from income tax the. income of certain private superannuation funds. The exemption of these funds, however, is generally conditional on their complying with the ' requirements of the '30/20 rule' that' each fund's assets include public securities the cost of which was not less than 30 per cent df the cost of all the assets of the fund, and that its assets include Commonweal. h securities, the cost of which was not less than 20 per cent of the cost bf all the' fund's assets. Certain other superannuation funds which are not subject to the '30/20 rule' may be non-taxable as a result of the special deduction allowed under sec.ion 79. A life assurance company that complies . with the '30/20 . rule' is exempt from tax on that part of its .income that is referrable to policies issued in connexion with certain exempt superannuation funds'. 
Income tax statistics of private superannuation funds exempted under sections 23 (ja) and 23  p  are available only in respect of the income years 1961-62, 1965-66 and 1,966-67. These statistics are incomplete as certain exempt .funds are not required to lodge income tax returns every year. However, it is estimated, on the basis of these and other published statistics of superannuation funds, that the cost to income tax revenue of the exemption of such funds (i.e., .the tax that would have been assessed if these funds had been taxed at the rates that apply to. section 23 (ja) ans section 23p funds that do not comply with the '30/20 rule') would have been approximately as follows: 
No income tax statistics are available of superannuation funds operated through life insurance companies. However, from the available statistics relating to the superannuation funds of life insurance companies it has been estimated that for the 1969-70 income year the cost to income tax revenue of exempting, in respect of section 23 (ja) and section 23r- funds, the income of the companies referable to these funds it an amount of the order of $7m per annum. 
The. answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth Statistician has supplied the following information in reply to the honourable member's question. 
Quarterly Consumer Price Index numbers are compiled and published at the earliest passible date following collection of prices al various specified points of time throughout each quarter No official estimates of anticipated changes . in index numbers are prepared and published in advance of the regular collection, calculation and publication of lbc index numbers. . . 
Index numbers and 'index points' contributions to the total index- tor the sub-group 'Costal and Telephone Services' are published regularly in the quarterly Consumer Price Index bulletin (reference no 9.1). The bulletin for December -Quarter 1971, which is expected lo he published on approximately 20th January 1972, will show the effect on the index of changes in postal and telephone charges. Pharmaceutical benefit prescriptions are not included in lbc fist of items of the Consumer Price Index. 
The Statistician does not make any calculations or estimates of the cost nf living. 
Question upon Notice (Question No. 4672) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as -follows: 
See answer to question No. 3495. 
The answer to the honourable member's question Ls as follows: 
The provisions which' the Government has under consideration for inclusion in the proposed legislation on general insurance are concerned primarily with  the  establishment of a system of supervising the financial soundness of general insurance companies. The scheme of legislation . accordingly does not envisage requiring insurers to furnish information on matters such as those referred to in this question which are not directly relevant to a company's financial soundness. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: &gt; 
The Acting Commonwealth Statistician has supplied the following table showing the details of quantity, value, rate of duty and duty paid fo.r imports of railway and tramway rails of iron and steel cleared for home- consumption, during .the years 1966-67 to 1970-71: 
The answer to the honourablemember's question is as -follows: . 
Yes. 
The matter was examined during the preparation of' the 1971-72 Budget but not adopted for inclusion among the measures' announced in my Budget Speech. It will be' kept under review. .'..!. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In accordance wilh normal practice, the maximum amounts deductible, under sections 82b and. 82.1 of the Income Tax ' Assessment Act were . reviewed, along wilh other proposals for new .or . extended taxation concessions, when the 1971-72 Budget was being prepared. As the honourable member may recall, an increase in the maximum ' deduction under section 82j was among the measures which 1 announced in my Budget Speech. There does not appear lo be any call for a further review of either matter so soon after the Budget but both may be expected lo be looked into again in the course of preparing the 1972-73 Budget. 
Non-residential Building: Financing  (Question No.  4812) . . 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) On 5lh March 1971 the former Prime Minister announced in the course of a statement on. this subject that, following discussions with a number of properly developers and builders, the' then Treasurer and he had' concluded that no direct action was required by the Government at the time to reduce the rate of commencements of new office buildings. I have arranged for a copy of the statement in question to be provided to the honourable member. (3) (a) and (b) This information, is nol avail-  able. However, the 'Annual Bulletin of Overseas Investment' published by the' Commonwealth Statistician provides estimates of annual- direct private overseas investment in building and construction, although these statistics tend to understate overseas investment in non-residential . construction. They do not include ..expenditures undertaken by  companies whose major activity is noi building and construction or overseas investment in nonresidential construction financed by institutional _ loan raisings abroad. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Information on hours worked is not available in sufficient detail to estimate output per man-hour. 
Comprehensive information on actual wages per hour worked also is not available for this period. However, the following details of average hourly earnings, ordinary and overtime, for fulltime non-managerial employees in private industry, excluding rural industry and private domestic service, have been collected in surveys conducted by the Commonwealth Statistician in October of each year since 1962, excluding 1965. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Tho Acting Commonwealth Statistician has  advised that, although regular surveys on overseas investment are conducted by the Bureau, information is not collected on overseas owned companies in the detail requested. He has also mentioned that information collected in respect of the operations of individual companies is strictly confidential and under .he provisions of the Census and Statistics Act cannot be disclosed to any person, or to any other government authority. 
The Reserve Bank has advised that it is unable to supply all the information sought. However, it has assembled from published sources the infor- mation shown below about issues since' 1966 of ' equity to Australians by overseas-owned companies operating in Australia and listed on Australian . stock exchanges. The list does not purport to include all issues of equity made by overseas owned companies to Australians in the .period  since 1966. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Although I am generally aware of the proposals for establishment of such a steelworks, I have no detailed knowledge of the infrastructure requirements that would be involved. I point out that the area in question is in New South Wales and not in Commonwealth territory. Matters relating to infrastructure requirements and financing are therefore within the province of the State Government rather than the Commonwealth Government, and no approaches have been made to the Commonwealth in connection with the financing of either the proposed project itself or infrastructure requirements relating to it. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Acting Commonwealth Statistician has supplied the following table showing the quantity and value of imports of railway rolling stock, by country of origin, cleared for home consumption during 1970-71' together with the rates and amounts of duty thereon. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The State Governments will receive additional, revenue in 3. ways as a result of the decisions made at the Premiers' Conference on 16th June 1971. 
First, the transfer from the Commonwealth to the Slates of the. right to impose pay-roll tax in the States as from 1st September 1971 is on the basis that there will be offsetting deductions from the Commonwealth's financial assistance grants to the Slates in 1971-72, but. that these deductions : will be less than the loss to Commonwealth revenue (and the gains to the States' budgets at the previously existing rate of tax of 2.5 per cent) resulting from the transfer by amounts estimated at the time of the Conference at $22.7m and now estimated at $22.4m. 
The distribution between the States of this esti mated gain of $22.4m to the States' budgets in 1971-72 is shown in the Budget paper 'Commonwealth Paymentstoor for the States 1971-72 (see the penultimate line in Table 3), in which document full details are given of the arrangements under which pay-roll tax in the States was transferred to the States. 
The reduction  of  an estimated $22.4m in the amounts to  be  deducted from the Commonwealth's financial assistance grants to the States will also apply to the 'base' used to determine the financial assistance grants for 1972-73 and the 3 subsequent years; and the States will therefore continue to benefit, to an increasing degree, from that reduction in those years. The amount of the benefit in years subsequent to 1971-72 cannot be estimated precisely, as it will depend on the annual increase in each State's population and on the annual increase in average wages in Australia as  a  whole, these being two  of  the elements in the formula under which the financial assistance grants increase each year. As an indication  of  the approximate effect  of  the abovementioned reduced deduction, however, it is estimated that the total benefit  to  the States over the 4 years 1971-72  to  1974-75  could  be  of the order of$100m. 
It should be explained that the figures mentioned above do not include the coststo the Commonwealth, and the gains, to local government authorities, arising from the Commonwealth's offerto meet the cost of exempting the non-business activities of local government authorities . from payment of pay-roll tax at the 2.5 per cent rate as from the date of transfer of the tax. The cost to the Commonwealth of that offer is estimated to amount toabout $6m in 1971-72 something over $8m in 1972-73,and willincrease further in subsequent years. 
Secondly, the Commonwealth will pay the States additional, non-recurring . special 'revenue assistance of$40m in 1971-72, to be distributed between the States in proportion to their financial assistance grants.The approximate amounts estimated to be payable to each State are shown' in Table 39 in the Budget paperCommonwealth Paymentsto or for the States 1971-72'. 
Thirdly, following the pay-roll tax transfer decision, all the States acted to increase the rate of the tax by1 per cent from 2 per cent to 3 per cent, as from the transfer date (1st September 1971). Onlyabout three-quarters ofthe full-year effect of that increase will accrue to the benefit of State Budgets in 1971-72. It is estimated that the benefitto the 1971-72 budgets of the 6 States taken as a whole will be approximately $90m in net terms (that is excluding collections which in some States will be made in respectof wages and salaries met direct from their budgets). 
The benefitsto State budgets in subsequent years from this  third factor will depend, obviously, on whether individual States decide to vary the rate of the tax (and if so, by how much and in what direction), as well as on movements in taxable wages and salaries in each State, and cannot, therefore, be predicted. 
This is a hypothetical questionand, if only becacse of the considerations referred to in the answerto (1), I am in no position to answer it. However, I can inform the honourablemember that, on the basis of figures published inthe December 1970 Supplement tothe Treasury Information Bulletin on National Accounting Estimates of Public Authority Receipts and Expenditures, it has been calculated that recurrent expenditures by the State Governments in 1969-70 on education (comprising net current expenditure on goods and services and transfer payments) represented about 36 per cent of total State budgetary expenditures of a current nature in that year. 
See answer to (2). I add that on 5th October last, in the course of a statement on the Commonwealth Education Programme for 1971- 72, the Minister for Education and Science expressed strong reservations about accepting the figures presented by State Ministers on the needs of government schools. Even if a more precise response were capable of being given to the earlier parts of the question, I would be reluctant to compound the shortcomings to which the Minister referred in that statement by attempting the arithmetical exercises which the honourable member invites me to undertake. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is not the practice of the Superannuation Board to release specific information of this nature. However, I understand from the  President  of the Superannuation Board that statistics will be prepared of the numbers of pensioners and the range of increases paid as a consequence of the recent Superannuation (Pensions Increases) Act 1971. I will arrange for this information to. be forwarded to the honourable member. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
 The following tables up-date the information provided by my predecessor - on 3rd June 1970 concerning interest rates and monthly repayments for bousing loans. The first table sets out what are understood to be typical ranges both of interest rates charged by the various lending institutions and repayment periods for loans. The second table sets out monthly payment per $1,000 loan under a range of interest rates and periods of repayment. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is difficult to provide precise ' statistics on merchant banking type companies in Australia because of the lack of a standard definition of the' term 'merchant bank' and because of the rapid growth in the number of companies operating in this general ' area over the last few years. 
These companies usually provide a broad range of financial services including accepting and/or discounting commercial bills, receiving short-term funds and providing or arranging short or medium-term finance. They may also underwrite, sub-underwrite and arrange issues of securities for other clients; they may provide advice to companies on re-organisations, takeovers, and reconstructions; some may also provide portfolio management services. However, it should be noted that some of the companies which provide the full range of activities described above do not call themselves merchant banks and this adds to the difficulty of collecting meaningful statistics. - These problems of definition were outlined by the  Deputy,  Governor of the Reserve Bank in the 1971 G. L. Wood Memorial Lecture given recently, but some attempt was made in that address to indicate in very broad terms the number of merchant banks active in Australia, their total assets and the degree of foreign ownership. 
Against the foregoing general background, the answers to the specific questions raised are as follows: (1)(i) 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Acting Commonwealth Statistician has provided the following tables showing customs and excise relating to liquor for 1969-70 and 1970-71 and taxes relating to liquor for 1969-70 (the latest available), in answer to the honourable member's question. It should be noted that excise and customs duties all accrue to the Commonwealth. The net liquor taxes shown, other than those in the Australian Capital Territory and Northern Territory, accrue to the States. State dissection of revenues from customs and excise duties on liquor is based on receipts as recorded by individual Commonwealth Sub-Treasuries. 
The Statistician has also advised that separate figures of court fines and other penalties as requested by the honourable member are not available. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Commonwealth assistance to Australian industry is provided by way of bounties, subsidies and other payments, and by way of contributions to promotion and research. Details of those payments for 1970-71 and estimates for 1971-72 are set out in statement No. 9 attached to the Budget Speech. Particulars for 1970-71 of Commonwealth assistance to industry through the taxation system, representing for the most part taxation revenue, foregone through concessions in the income tax law, are also set out in statement No. 9. 
A preliminary estimate of subsidies by State Governments in 1970-71 is $18m. Although a detailed break-up of State subsidies is not yet available, the major part would consist of freight concessions. An estimate for  1971-72- is not yet available. Information is not available regarding assistance to - industry through State taxation systems. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Information on the aggregate value of oil companies' capital assets in Australia is not readily obtainable; particulars for individual companies may be recorded in the returns filed with company registrars. The following particulars of taxable income and net tax in respect of those taxable oil companies in Australia for which oil is the main source of assessable income have been obtained from Supplements to the Taxation Commissioner's annual Reports: 
The answer lo the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Although the Government Printer has, on two occasions, sought funds to purchase new computercontroller photo-typesetting equipment, on neither occasion was it possible to prepare firm estimates of likely savings because of the lack of detailed information about the operational characteristics of the equipment under Australian conditions. The estimate given in evidence before the Joint Committee on Publications has not yet been submitted to the Treasury for examination. 
Approval; of any further request for funds will depend on . the Government's assessment of the need, relative to other demands on the Budget, to proceed wilh the purchase. 
Banking (Foreign Exchange) Regulations (Question No. 3495)  Dr Klugman  asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Does regulation 8 of the Banking (Foreign Exchange) Regulations provide that a person shall not, except wilh the authority of the Reserve Bank of Australia, enter into any contract or agreement with a person resident outside Australia for the performance of any service. 
If so, is one of the effects of these regula tions and the Banking Act 1959, that certain migrants or foreign visitors of this country, other than from the sterling 'area, could not instruct a solicitor to act for them without the' authority of the Reserve Bank. 
in view of the possibility in cases of urgency, such as deportation, where this authority may not be obtained in time or at all,, will he consider appropriate amendments to the Regulations to exempt legal services. 
The  answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Amongst other things, regulation 8(1) of the Banking (Foreign Exchange) Regulations provides that a person shall not, without the authority of the Reserve Bank, enter into any contract or agreement (not being a contract or agreement for the purchase of goods) so that a right to the performance of any service, whether in Australia or elsewhere, is created in favour of a person resident out nf Australia. However, under regulation 38 of the Reserve Bank has, subject to any directions of the Treasurer, powers to grant exemptions from the regulations. The Bank has exempted transactions, coming within regulation 8 (1), with persons resident in the Sterling Area (excluding Hong Kong). 
it would not be possible to reply to this part of the question without expressing a legal opinion. I mention for the information of the honourable member that the question of the effects of regulation 8 is raised in legal proceedings initiated in the Supreme Court of Western Australia and currently before the High Court. 
Consideration will be given to the question of exempting legal services after the outcome of the legal proceedings referred to in (2) above is known. 
Australian Democratic Labor Party: Cost of Election Proposals (Question No. 4607)  Mr Hayden  asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Did his Department cost the election proposals of the Australian Democratic Labor Party put forward at the 1970 Senate election; if so, will he give details of the costing. 
I am informed that no such costings were prepared by my Department. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Motor vehicle manufacturers are subject to the local content requirements of the Customs bylaw concessions for manufacturers of passenger motor vehicles, including utilities and panel vans. 
This question concerns details of the internal financial affairs of an individual company and 
I understand that annual reports published by General Motors Holden's Pty Limited contain some information of the nature requested by the honourable member. 
No. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Acting Commonwealth Statistician has supplied the following information: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There are no special privileges granted to, or restrictions imposed on, rubber companies. Petroleum , exploration companies, however, are paid petroleum search subsidies for certain exploratory surveys and drilling operations. The subsidies are repayable where commercially exploitable discoveries are made. In addition, there is a number of special concessions in the Income Tax Assessment Act for petroleum exploration and mining companies, which are described, briefly, as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Following the receipt of representations both for their extension and for their restriction or abolition, the provisions of section 120 of the Income Tax Assessment Act were examined several times during the last five financial years. These examinations did not lead to the formulation of proposals for amendment of the provisions in either direction. 
No statistics are available that would enable a reliable estimate to be made of the increased income tax revenue that would have resulted if deductions under section 120 had not been allowable to co-operative companies. 
Road Accidents: Cost to the Commonwealth (Question No. 3724) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows;' 
Inquiries made to date suggest that it may not be practicable to make all the estimates referred to. However, detailed investigation is still proceed- ' ing and I shall advise the honourable member of the outcome as soon as possible. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Completion of the examination of information relating to natural disaster relief schemes operating in United States, Canada and New Zealand has been delayed by pressure of work and staff shortages in the relevant part of the Treasury. However, a considerable amount of work has already been done on the project, and every effort will be made to expedite its completion. 
Overseas Investment in Australia (Question No. 3465) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Within the limitation of the resources available to me and the many other competing claims upon those resources, it has not been possible, within the time available, to provide the very considerable amount of information which would be needed to answer this question fully while at the same time setting out in detail the important qualifications whch would be required in respect of many .aspects of such an answer. The matter will however be further pursued during the period while the Parliament is adjourned, and if the honourable member would care to have the question, restored to the Notice Paper at the commencement of the Autumn Session an attempt will then be made to provide an answer to it. . 
The answer to the honourable member's question isas follows: 
and (3) A subsidy scheme which commenced in 1965-66 has the aim of reducing the wholesale prices of certain petroleum products in country areas to within 3.3 cents per gallon of capital city prices. Payments to the States for this purpose and corresponding expenditure in the Northern Territory have been as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: ' 1 
All works of. an produced in Australia are exempt from sales tax. Those produced overseas are taxable at the rate of lj per cent up/m importation or subsequent sale by wholesale in Australia unless they are covered- by an exemption provision in the law. Exemption applies to imported works of art which are: 
produced overseas by- Australian artists; . 
produced in New Zealand by New Zealand artists, being works of art to which the  - New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement applies; 
lor continuous public exhibition .free, of charge;  . (d) owned by, and for exhibition in, a museum or art gallery controlled by a public authority or by persons . appointed by  a   public authority; or - (e) for use by a body or organisation -which' is entitled to  exemption in respect of all goods for its own use. for example the  Art Gallery of a. State,, a government department' or a 'municipal council. . ,] 
Approximately S500.000 per annum. 
During the . preparation  of. the "1971 -72 Budget. ! 
and (6) As Ho statistics are availably of gifts of works of art for public exhibition' iti the manner ' referred to. it* 'has 'nor'-'been possible to calculate ' the loss ' to" revenue' that would i'A, It from' the allowance qf such gifts "as' -deductions For income l.' pui puses. Similarly,, it has not been possible to calculate the lo:ss Of revenue (hat would result if bequests, of .'his kind were exempt from 'estate duty. 
and (7) I am. not' aware of .their having done so. On 5th February 1970,' however, the Organising Director for State Galleries I969"7() forwarded for the then Prime Minister's consideration resolutions relating to income tax and estate duty ' concessions which were passed at the 1969 State Art Galleries Directors' Conference. 
The first resolution sought an amendment of the Income Tax Assessment Act to allow as'  a  deduction the value of gifts of works of fine and applied arts to any public Art Gallery in the Commonwealth. 1 understand that the then. Prime Minister replied to the effect that, because the proposed amendment would create serious practical problems, might well open up avenues for tax avoidance and, .in individual cases, involve  a  cost to revenue of up. to two-thirds of the estimated value of a donated work pf art, irrespective of the actual cost' of the work to the donor, ' he could not hold out hope that the law would be  so  amended. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) The MLC Fire and General Insurance 
Company Pty Limited is a proprietary company and is a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Mutual Life and Citizens' Assurance Company Limited. The latter company, whose main business is life insurance, is in turn a subsidiary of The MLC Limited, which is a public, and not a mutual, company, (b) It would appear that the last dividend provided for' by The MLC Fire and General Insurance Company Pty Limited was in the year ended 30th June 1968 and that this dividend was at a rate of 6 per cent on paid-up capital. 
Allocations of profit for the year ended 31st December 1970 from the life insurance and other operations of The Mutual Life and Citizens' Assurance Company Limited were $3.9,020,455 to policyowners and $1,310,000 to shareholders. The allocation to shareholders represented a dividend of 65.5 per cent on paid-up capital. The MLC Limited has declared total dividends of $1,301,438, which represented 18 per cent on paid-up capital, for the year ended 30th April 1971. 
The Insurance Commissioner has advised that none of the companies registered under the Life Insurance Act 1945-1965 is a. private company as defined in section 103a of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936-1970, or a proprietary company as defined in section 15 of the Australian Capital Territory Companies Ordinance 1962-1969. The number of shareholders in each registered life insurance company is not known but extensive information in regard to the other aspects' referred to in the question is contained in the -annual reports of the Insurance Commissioner, the last of which, for the year ended 31st December 1970. was tabled in the House on 6lh May 1971. 
The Life Insurance Act 1945-1965 provides for close supervision of companies carrying on the business of life insurance and a substantial increase in the deposits to. be lodged by such companies in accordance with the Act is not seen as. necessary to protect the interests of policy owners. . In respect of companies carrying on general (non-life) insurance, ..the Government intends to introduce legislation for the supervision of their activities. The question of whether any change should be made in the deposit requirements applicable to such companies under the present Insurance Act 1932-1966 is under consideration in conjunction with the proposed legislation. 
The provision of assistance to those adversely affected by natural disasters such as bushfires, floods and droughts is primarily the responsibility of State Governments which are in the best position to assess the need for, and provide, such assistance. However, in the case of major disasters requiring expenditure judged to be beyond the means of a State, the Commonwealth has always been prepared to assist the State concerned in financing relief and restoration measures. In addition, the Commonwealth has always been prepared tq assist, on humanitarian ground, in financing ' expenditure on emergency relief of personal hardship and distress even where relatively small .amounts have been involved. Commonwealth assistance to the States for this purpose, which amounted to more than $127m in the 6" years ending 30th June 1971, does not normally extend to the ' cost - of restoring private assets damaged by natural disasters, it being regarded as the responsibility of the individual to provide against such losses by way of insurance. These arrangements have worked, and are working, effectively and the Government sees no need to propose a referendum concerning them. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Acting Treasurer's reply on 30th September related to loans to Goulburn Valley canneries from tha Rural Credits Department of the Reserve Bank of Australia. The Government has no statutory power to direct the Bank on the administration of loans made to particular customers of that Department. 
Section II of the Reserve Bank Act requires the Reserve Bank Board to keep the Government informed of the monetary and banking policy of the Reserve Bank. In the event of a difference of opinion between the Government and th Board whether that policy, is directed to the greatest advantage of the people of Australia, section II gives the Government subject to the observance of certain procedures, power to recommend to 1 he Governor-General in Council that he determine the policy to be adopted by the Rank. However, thin section does not empower the Government to make a determination or give a direction to the Reserve Bank with respect to a loan to a particular person. 
Yes. but the Commission went on to say that this did not imply that there should at any time be interference by the Government in the administration of the (then) Commonwealth Bank. 
The power conferred on the Government by section 1 1 of th? Reserve Bank Act to determine, in certain circumstances, the monetary and banking policy of the Reserve Bank is an important power which is available for use should the circumstances envisaped in that provision ever arise (see also answer lr&gt;  O).  To date the power has not been invoked. 
See answer to (4), 
Motor Vehicle Insurance Companies  (Question 740. 4597) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1)' and (2) 1 have seen reports of statements along these lines." 
The Insurance Act 1932-1966, which is the only Commonwealth legislation at present applicable to companies carrying on general insurance business, does not empower the Treasurer to make such investigations or inquiries. 
(i) The following information has been obtained - from Press reports and subsequently confirmed by the liquidators concerned: ' 
28th July 1970 ..,-...' 
24tb August 1970 , 
26th October 1970..... 
26th October 1970 
2nd November 1970 
1st December. 1970 
17th December 1970 
. 15th February 1971 
South Australia 1st lune 1971 
The. answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The Government is df course Well aware of the substantia] growth which has occurred over recent years not only in the non-official money market but throughout' the whole of' the Australian money .and capital markets. There has been substantial growth in both the number' and size of financial institutions; a variety of new institutions- has been, established and many existing ones have expanded rapidly; the range and diversity of financial claims issued and actively traded in financial, markets have, also been, considerably enlarged. These various developments may be regarded as a natural accompaniment to Australia's economic expansion paralleling -the increase iri the size and range of our industrial and commercial structure. It is of course important that the infra-structure of the financial system should not lag in adapting to growth and development throughout the economy generally. 
This question raises a matter of policy which it is not appropriate to answer in the context of a parliamentary question. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Duty on diesel fuel is paid by oil companies to the Department of Customs and Excise before fuel is removed in bulk quantities from companies' licensed installations. The fuel is subsequently told to companies' customer); at either the dutyinclusive price, or duty-free in the case of holders of certificates exempting them from payment of duty. 
 The Department of Customs and Excise, therefore, has no information on amounts of diesel fuel duty paid by local authorit es or -other individual customers supplied by oil. companies: 
The' excise duty on diesel fuel was first imposed' in 1957 and was designed specifically to remove an anomaly in that fuel' used in- dieselpowered road vehicles was then "tax free' whereas operators of petrol-driven vehicles were required lo pay tax on the fuel they used. The diesel fuel lax, therefore, applies only 'to soc* 'fuel used in road- vehicles transporting persons.. or goods, on public loads.- Local government: authorities, like other- users, -are exempt from duty on- diesel fuel used for 'other purposes: -To grant -'exemption for fuel' used in- road - vehicles- -operated- by 'local government authorities would re-introduce; however,the kind of anomaly -that the present tax -was originally designed to avoid. 
 On the more specific question, of local authorities in .Queensland, . it . would npt .be .passible lo exempt these authorities from the diesel. fuel tax, as Section 51 (ii) of the Constitution prohibits discrimination between States , or parts ..of States in laws. relating to taxation..   &lt; Expert Group on Road Safety (Question No. 4665)  ;  Mr Whitlam  asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
 What action (a) did the Gorton , Government take and (b) has the McMahon Government taken on . the letter sent to the former Prime Minister by the Royal Australian College of Surgeons on 3rd April 1970 about road accident mortality and morbidity. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The following information relates to civil works programmes under the control of the Department of Works, the Postmaster-General's Department, and the National Development Commission, details of which are given in the document 'Civil Works Programme' circulated by the Minister for Works. The expenditure figures for each State or Territory represent amounts expended or estimated to be expended on projects located within that State or Territory. It cannot, of course, be assumed that the ' whole of any amounts expended on projects located in a particular State or Territory would necessarily take the form of payments made within that State or Territory. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The provisions which the Government has under consideration for inclusion in the proposed legislation on general insurance are concerned primarily with the establishment of a system of supervising the' financial soundness of general insurance companies. The scheme of legislation accordingly does not envisage requiring .insurers to furnish information on matters such as those referred to in this question which arc not directly relevant to a company's financial soundness. 
I will not comment at the moment on all the matters to which the honourable gentleman referred in prefacing this question. 
Factual or not, I will not comment on them at question time. What I will do is read one question and answer given at a recent National Press Club luncheon. 
The lot will be available for the honourable gentleman to read.  Mr Fred  Brenchley of the 'Financial Review' asked: 
Did you argue with BHP for moderation in their prices? 
I replied: 
With BHP I made it clear what our policies were. I made it clear that price increases were something that we wished to see avoided or moderated. 
I have said very frequently, and the Prime Minister has said, that we will keep the state of the economy under constant review and pursuant to that review we will take action as seems necessary. This is a matter of policy on which I will not give an indication one way or the other. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  has brought into this House a matter of public importance claiming that it is of great urgency. It is interesting to remember that two or three weeks ago and for a period prior to that, the big issue that he was talking about was recession. Whatever did happen to the recession that he was talking about? Today he comes into the House not with a censure motion or a no confidence motion, for they are insupportable in his own judgment. What he comes in with is a matter of public importance and then he does not even talk to the subject. He ignored it completely, as well he might ignore it for he has no policy himself. He dare not have a policy because any policy that he speaks of is totally in contradiction to the official policy of the Australian Labor Party. The Australian Labor Party's policy is price control with the co-operation of the States. The Leader of the Opposition went to great lengths last night to say that he was not talking about control; he was talking about some other more fuzzy thing such as restraint. I will come to that in a moment. But he has not given his attention to the terms of the matter before the House. Instead, what has he done? He has built up an entire case which must be struck to the ground for it has no basis except in distortion and unsupported allegation. The Leader of the Opposition should listen to my exposure of his distortion. It will do him good to listen to it and to know that it is becoming apparent to everybody that the whole basis of every argument that is put is distortion. The purpose of the speech was an attempt to draw a division between the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon),  the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  and me. The Leader of the Opposition has been in the Labor Party long enough to know the divisive tactics  of  that Party, but they will not work when used against this side of the House. I assure him  of  that. He would do better putting his efforts into policy matters instead  of  personalities. 
His first distortion was when he said that the Treasurer knew for 3 weeks before the rise in the price of steel was announced. Where is his support for that statement? It is distortion and unfounded allegation. I come to the next distortion. He said that the Prime Minister failed to tell the Premiers of the rise, well knowing it was about to occur. 
No, he did not tell them. The distortion is the allegation that the Prime Minister did not tell them although he knew it was about to occur. What is the justification for that statement by the Leader of the Opposition? He should justify it. 
Justify it. As for the assertion that 1 knew, I saw  Mr McNeill  on 26th January and on that occasion made my position clear to him. I will read part of an answer I gave to a question the day after the price rise was announced. I said: 
I made it clear to him that our problems were difficult, very difficult, but we as a Government are not a wage fixing authority, nor for that matter can we take commercial judgments. But I was anxious that any, commercial judgment taken would be taken against the background of full knowledge of the Government's intentions and policy and full knowledge of the difficulties of economic management as we saw them. 
The decision had not been taken on that clay. I put all these factors to  Mr McNeill  so that they could be taken into account. Let me put the record straight. I was asked a question as follows: 
. you may think it appropriate to answer this question with a yes orno. Did you oppose the BHP steel increase? 
I replied: 
I  thought  I  had answered that. 
Having said what I have just read out, one might well have thought that 1 had answered it, but as I was asked to make a yes or no statement I said: 
I  did  not  oppose the BHP steel increases. 
I thought 1 had made clear what I bad done. In that very same answer I went on: 
I told  BHP  that it was a matter of their commercial  judgment,  that we were not a price fixing body. I told them what our attitudes were to inflation and economic management so that they would take their decisions against the Government's attitude. 
As I mentioned at question time,  Mr Brenchley  of the 'Australian Financial Review' asked me: 
Did you argue with BHP for moderation in their prices? 
I replied: 
With BHP I made it clear what our policies were. I made it clear that price increases were something that we wished to see avoided or moderated. 
If my recollection is right, I have not seen  Mr McNeill  again since 26th January. So the basis of the allegations is a distortion. 
Let us come to the subject of the matter before the House. It refers to the Government's inconsistency. Let us have some consistency from the Leader of the Opposition. He says that he has a prices policy. I will come to that in a moment. Let him tell us what his wages policy is. He has no wages policy. He talks about leadership. What leadership did he give in Victoria during the State Electricity Commission workers' strike when hundreds of thousands of men were out of work? What leadership did the Leader of the Opposition give on that occasion? We have identified the main cause of the inflationary pressures in Australia today. The main blame lies at the feet of excess wage increases. It is a matter of cause and effect. Price increases are only the measurement of the excess when it has passed through from excess wage increases to increased costs. The increased costs are passed on in prices. How can it be said that prices are chasing wages when, for the quarter from September to December, average wages rose by over 11 per cent whereas for the calendar year 1971. according to the figures I can obtain from the statistics for comparison, prices went up by 7 per cent? 
The honourable member says that they have to pay tax. The Opposition will say anything to try to modify the reality, and that is that excess wages are the root cause of the problem. What policy has the Opposition in relation to the root cause? The Opposition does not have a single policy on this matter. Wages, salaries and supplements constitute 57.5 per cent of the gross national product on the average over the last 8 years. In the aggre gate one can see what an important effect the increase in wages, incomes and supplements has had on costs. If they go up, the costs should be absorbed to the greatest extent possible; but it is simply not possible to absorb all the costs if the costs advance beyond productivity. 
We as a Government are concerned for everybody in an inflationary situation, for who are the sufferers? The sufferers are the weaker members of the workforce, the less highly organised, those with less industrial muscle, those on fixed incomes, workers whose savings are now their source of income, the exporters of rural and secondary products. They are the sufferers. From inflation the speculator or the industrially powerful is the beneficiary. In accordance with our duty to the whole of the Australian people we shall pursue the course of identifying wages as the main, root cause of the inflationary pressures. The next part of the matter under discussion refers to the Government's exercising its powers. What power does it have? It has the power to intervene in general wage cases to put logical arguments and economic realities to arbitration tribunals so that when they give their decisions - for it is the tribunals that give the decisions - they can have in mind all these factors which are so important to the economic welfare of this country and therefore to the social wellbeing of the Australian people. If that is what the Government is charged with doing, I do not deny it, for do it we must. 
In relation to the Commonwealth Public Service the Government has indicated that, within the arbitral system, it will resist wage claims to the extent it can. That point has been pressed upon the Government by the whole of the general sector. A national prices policy is the next matter for discussion. What is a national prices policy according to the Australian Labor Party or its spokesman, the Leader of the Opposition? He does not say what it means. He does say what it does not mean. What an extraordinarily convoluted way for a national leader to explain a national policy. He says that it does not mean arbitrary powers being handed over to a price fixing body. What does it mean? The Australian Labor Party's policy, on the other hand, refers to price controls with the cooperation of the States. The Leader of the 
Opposition does not use the word 'control'.  Mr Hawke  does.  Mr Hawke  does not back away from it. The Leader of the Opposition made it clear in his briefing last night that he did not really want controls; that might be politically dangerous. But  Mr Hawke,  whom the Prime Minister said today was the true leader of the Labor Party, does want controls. Honourable members opposite should be careful not to deny it or they may lose their endorsements. The word used in the matter for discussion is 'restrain', not 'control'. We are not going to have a body with arbitrary power. We are going to have the carrot and stick approach. We have not heard very much about the carrot but we have heard about the stick. The stick, as outlined by the Leader of the Opposition, is a selective disqualification of individuals. On the basis of that selective disqualification there will be a withdrawal of the investment allowance. To companies in this country trying to diversify production and trying to improve their productivity it will mean that they will sit there not knowing whether what they have planned on is likely to be withdrawn by an inchoate body not yet defined. 
The other stick is tariff protection. That is to be withdrawn selectively. Men's jobs depend upon tariff policy. If the Opposition is going to play with the security of men employed by companies, by the potential selective withdrawal of tariffs, and if it is going to change tariff policy and tell the Tariff Board what to do, it should expose this in detail. Perhaps the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  will explain how it works. If they are not arbitrary matters I would hate to have some knowledge of the Leader of the Opposition when he is in a dictatorial mood. God knows what would happen. When stripped down to its essentials the matter before the House discloses that there is a price policy of the kind  1  have spelt out. It is true that there is an arbitrary method of selective disqualification, but there is no wages policy involved in it at all, for the Parliamentary Labor Party has no wages policy. It dares not have a wage policy. If it had a wages policy it would find itself in conflict with the trade unions of Australia, particularly the powerful trade unions, and more particularly with the powerful trade union leaders of this country. For that reason the Leader of the Opposition has fuzzed up this matter as best he could. That is why he built his whole case upon the distortion I have disclosed. That is also why the people of Australia still have not been told by the Leader of the Opposition- what his policy is. He has attempted to hide it by saying what it might not be and he has attempted to create a division between the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister and myself, and it will not work. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In my answer in the House on 28th April I believe 1 made it clear that I wished to have the opportunity of checking the source of the honourable gentleman's figures. 
Yes. I also pointed out however that less than half of total company income payable overseas in recent years has been actually remitted overseas. (In the 3 years to 1969-70 only 14 per cent of total company income was actually remitted abroad.) I added further that income payable overseas has remained relatively stable as a proportion of Gross National Product, lt currently represents only, about 2 per cent of GNP. 
Yes. I went on to say however that in the longer term the main balance of payments impact of overseas investment arises from the direct and indirect effects on exports and imports generated by the addition to total resources available for domestic production. 1 further added that although these effects are complex and cannot be calculated precisely they are of considerable net long-term benefit to the balance of payments, and to the Australian economy as a whole. 
It is nol possible to list the sources of additions to our overseas reserves or the categories of investment which they represent as it is not possible to directly relate changes in international reserves to individual capital and trade transactions. The aggregate addition to (or reduction in) our international reserves comes almost entirely from die overall surplus (or deficit) in the balance of payments which, in turn, is the result of a multitude of individual transactions of goods, services and assets. 
Visits and Awards by Governor-General  (Question No. 4250)  Mr Whitlam  asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
When has the Governor-General represented the Queen of Australia on formal or ceremonial occasions outside Australia and the Australian Territories (Hansard, 19lh November 1968, page 3013). 
ls the Queen's delegation to the Governor-General to make gallantry awards still limited to awards for gallantry in Vietnam (Hansard, 26lh September 1968, page 1624). 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The value of Australian notes in circulation as at Wednesday 20th October 1971 was $1,416,534,368. 
There is no statutory limit on the value of notes in circulation which fluctuates daily in response to the public's requirements. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. As at 30th June 1971 the International Finance Corporation (IFC) held equity in 101 of the 172 enterprises in which it had made investments. 
Not particularly - the main concentration of investment by IFC to date has been in manufacturing industry. 
There are six Australian members of the staff of IFC at the present time, viz. J. E. Dolin, M. F. Hartigan, Miss J. MacKaness, Miss E. Malcolm, N. J. Paterson and Miss R. Tunyep.  Mr Paterson  is Director of Investments for Central America, Australasia, Mexico and Europe. In addition, of course, I, as Governor for Australia, represent Australia on the Board of Governors of the Corporation. Along with South Africa and New Zealand, Australia is represented on the Board of Executive Directors for IFC by  Mr R.  L. Knight of New Zealand; his Alternate in that position is  Mr M.  A. Cranswick, who was formerly employed in the Commonwealth Treasury and is currently in the unattached list during bis period of service in Washington. 
IFC invested SUS660,000 in Duncan's Holdings Ltd in 19S7-S8 and a total of $US3 15,000 in Rubbertex (Australia) Pty Ltd in 1958-59 and 1959-60. Both of these investments have since been liquidated. 
It is not the intention of the Government to give the Australian Industry Development Corporation any special powers to acquire details of foreign investment in Australia. The current policy of the International Finance Corporation is to concentrate its investments in developing member countries and, as the answer to question (4) indicates, the question of competition with the Australian Industry Development Corporation is therefore unlikely to arise. 
(a) The Goverment's policy on overseas investment in Australia was outlined by the former Prime Minister in a statement to the House on 16th September 1969. (b) No. Quite apart from the policy issue raised, it would be most difficult to draft appropriate legislation and virtually impossible to enforce it. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Oral contraceptives, in common wilh other contraceptives, are subject to sales tax at the rate of 27i per cent. 
No statistics are available relating to collections of sales tax on contraceptives. 
Public Service: Special Qualifications  (Question  No.  4708)  Mr Enderby  asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
WQ1 he identify and list the latter courses referred to in the answer to question No. 3835 (Hansard, 3rd November 1971, page 2998) which are now being offered by the Canberra College of Advanced Education, and which are now being examined, and which may or may not be accepted by the appropriate employing departments. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Acting Commonwealth Statistician has advised that the type of information sought is collected by him under the authority of the Census and Statistics Act for the purpose of compiling statistics of overseas investment in Australia. However, under the provisions of the Act, information relating to individual companies is strictly confidential and cannot be disclosed to any person or any other government authority. 
The following incomplete information on the ownership in 1965 and 1970 of the companies referred to in this question and in questions Nos 4878 to 4884 has been taken from the 1966 edition of the Directory of Overseas Investment in Australian Manufacturing Industry published by the Department of Trade and Industry, and from the proposed new edition of that directory which is at present in the course of publication. 
The  answer  to the honourable member's  question is  as follows: 
See answer to question No. 4877. 
The answer to the honourable member's  question  is as follows: 
See answer to question No. 4877. 
The answer to the honourable member's  question  is as follows: 
See answer to question No. 4877. 
Australian Companies: Overseas Ownership  (Question No. 4881)  Mr Barnard  asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Can he say (a) what was the percentage of overseas ownership in (i) Golden Poultry Farming Industries, (ii) Toppa Holdings Pty Ltd, (iii) Macrobertsons (Australia) Pty Ltd, (iv) Masterfoods Holdings Pty Ltd and (v) Hungerford-Hill Vineyards Pty Ltd at (A) 1st January 1967 and (B) 30th June 1971 and (b) what were the names of the overseas companies involved. 
The answer to the hon  ourable  member's  question is  as follows:  See answer to question No. 4877. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
See answer to question No. 4877. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
See answer to question No. 4877. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
See answer to question No. 4877. 
The figures that the honourable gentleman has quoted are, so far as I can remember, near enough to being accurate. I do not vouch for their precise accuracy but no doubt the honourable gentleman has looked at them and can assure me that they are accurate. However, that is beside the point. The issue that he raises concerns greatly increased Government expenditure since the Budget. The fact is that there has been greatly increased expenditure and there has been no secret about this. Increased expenditures have been incurred on nursing homes, employmentcreating grants in country areas and on schools. There has been a great number of increased expenditures. It is true that the amount of money spent in the public sector has increased. It is equally (rue that at the time of the Budget, seeing the public sector expanding at a far more rapid rate than it had hitherto and realising that as the public sector grows there is a consequential small increase in the private sector, it was thought that it would be a good purpose to hold down the rate of growth. 
Of course, the fact is that the claim by the public for the provision of services in the public sector is so real and has grown so much that it has not been possible, in the context, to pursue the course. I said during the Budget debate that we would keep the economy under review and would respond as was appropriate to the state of the economy. We have responded in the method which has been appropriate. In the Budget we were pursuing 2 aims. One was a continuance of growth so that we could absorb all the new entrants into the work force as well as retain existing members of the work force. We therefore wanted to continue growth and we have achieved that objective. We have obtained growth; we have taken action so that there will be full employment. As a twin aim we also wanted to retain our proper stance in relation to inflation. If the honourable gentleman is arguing that the Government should not have expended that money in the public sector, I should like him to identify the wrong decisions. The decisions which the Government took were correct and were totally consistent with its budgetary aims, which were the 2 elements of policy and were totally consistent with the statement I made at that time that we would keep the economy under review and respond appropriately. 
As I understand the BHP statement, it said that there would be what it termed 'a base increase' of  5.3  per cent and there would be other increases for what I remember the statement calling qualities'. It said an announcement would be made at a later point of time as to the specific amounts to be charged for qualities. I, like the honourable gentleman, have read in the Press that there has been an increase in the price of tinplate. Inherent in what the honourable gentleman asked is whether that increase will increase prices. I think the answer is that it will increase costs; it must. If the cost of one of the fundamental components is increased, of course the cost over all will be increased. This is not a unique experience for there are very many elements in a cost structure, the major one of which is wages. The next question that the honourable gentleman asked was what impact it would have on the consumer price index. I will ask my Department to see whether  it  can make  an  assessment of the increase  in  the consumer price index  as  a result of the increase  in  the price of tinplate. 
The increase in inflationary pressures in this country is not - I repeat not - caused by excess demand. The increase in inflationary pressures in this country is, I repeat, caused by costpush inflation. It is caused by excess wages exceeding productivity and because of wage increases going into the cost element and being passed on in prices. The reason for inflation is, without any doubt, principally at the foot of excess wage costs. I have never said it was wholly so and I do not say now that it is wholly so. I say it was mainly so, and so it was and so it remains. That is the problem. Nor in my Budget Speech did I say that the purpose of Une Budget was to suppress demand. What I said in my Budget Speech was that there were some areas in the economy where there was excess demand. It was in relation to those areas in the economy where there was excess demand that, as a consequence of the excess demand, certain activities were occurring that were then spreading throughout the economy as a whole and that, insofar as there was excess demand, it related to specific areas. I nominated the specific areas. It was not the purpose of the Budget to suppress demand. It has been represented as being so, but it was not. 
The purpose of the Budget was a double policy - a policy of continued growth and a policy of tackling inflation. As another element of it we wanted, insofar as it was possible so to do, to cut down the rate of increase in the public sector. We said at that time that we would keep the economy under observation and that we would respond accordingly. We have in fact done exactly what we said we would do. Any honourable member whose ambition it is to displace the honourable member for Melbourne Ports as the Opposition's spokesman on economic affairs ought to understand these things quite clearly. 
Yesterday in a lengthy exchange between the Leader of the Opposition and myself the Leader of the Opposition said that I had known 3 weeks before the event that the prices were to be increased. That was then put in precise terms as 2 weeks and 6 days. The mathematics of the situation are that I saw  Mr McNeill,  the Managing Director of Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd, on 26 January. The Leader of the Opposition said that I had known about the increase at that date. The dispute between us was as to whether I did know on that date. The honourable gentleman, I think, reached the conclusion that I knew by a logical process that, if I saw  Mr McNeill,  he surely must have told me. That was the first basis for his assumption. The second basis was that he quoted from a Press conference that was given by  Mr Rich,  the financial director of BHP- 
On the 16th February. According to the text of that interview - this was referred to yesterday by the Leader of the Opposition -  Mr Rich  said: 
They did not ask us not to do it but we did not ask for approval. That was not the basis of our approach. Our approach was to advise the Government of our intention. This - 
Then there are parenthesis marks which, presumably, somebody who took out the transcript has inserted - 
This (the decision) is regarded by us and by the Government as a normal commercial decision. 
When pressed,  Mr Rich  was asked: 
When did the Government know? 

 Mr Rich said that it knew. He said: 
Do not try to pin me down on this. It was  a  couple of days before the actual announcement was made. The actual announcement was made  at 5  o'clock yesterday (February IS). 
The parenthesis was put in for clarity, presumably, by whoever took the transcript. He continued: 
They knew on Monday of the timing. 
The fact remains that when  Mr McNeill  came to see me he told me of BHP's problems. He told me that because of the problems they had - and it is not my intention to spell out in any detail the problems he was speaking about - it would be necessary for BHP to consider putting a recommendation to its Board in relation to price increases. And then, as I have said so frequently, I explained what the Governments attitude was, what our polices were and that the best- 
They are not secrets. 
If  Mr Rich  said that the Government knew some weeks before that BHP would raise prices- 
The Government knew some weeks before that BHP was considering raising prices. It had no knowledge that BHP would raise prices because, as I understand it, no decision had then been taken. In relation to the second question, that is whether the Prime Minister had made any representations to defer or stop the increases, I do not know whether the Leader of the Opposition put any time factor on that, but the Prime Minister himself yesterday referred to a letter which he wrote. 
The relevant terms of the letter were read to the House yesterday by the Prime Minister. The third point concerned whether the Government knew  a  couple of days before. I have indicated, in an answer to the honourable member for Franklin, that I knew on 11th February. The fourth point concerned whether the Government knew on Monday of the timing. I cannot give a precise answer to that question. I believe that I did know that the answer was imminent. 1 do not believe that I knew the exact time. If the implication in the question is did 1 know it was imminent, the answer is that I did know it was imminent. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-What the honourable member said does misrepresent what I said in reply to his question. The honourable member in his question said that the policy of the Budget was to dampen demand. My reply was that I had pointed out in the Budget that there were some areas of excess demand and it was to those areas that we were turning our attention because what was happening in those areas was spilling over into other areas. I will quote a few of the points I made in the Budget Speech. They read: 
In general, as we see the problem, there has been and still is a powerful upthrust of costs, stemming largely though not wholly from large wage claims relentlessly pursued. 
There has also been and still is an over-strong pressure of demand in some sectors, the effects of which spill over into other areas. Over the past couple of years, expenditure has been running very high in non-residential construction and, to a lesser extent, on the purchase and installation of capital equipment. It has also been running very high in the public sector, both Commonwealth and State. 
The part which the honourable member just quoted is of course an accurate quote but it is totally out of context with what was said. I will repeat the part the honourable member quoted. It reads: 
Since, as I have said, demand has been running too high in some sectors . . . 
What the honourable member went on to say is relevant to the words 'some sectors'. That is the nature of the answer I gave today. That is what I said in the Budget Speech and it remains the truth. If he wants further reference to that he can look at page IS of the Budget Speech. 

 Mr HAYDEN (Oxley)- I claim that through selective quotations the Treasurer has sought to evade- 
He also said: 
This could be made possible by the big increase in personal disposable incomes that has occurred and by the large build-up in savings bank deposits over recent months. That it might happen is evidenced by a sharp growth in retail sales-  1 will truncate the quotation. It is hardly worth giving the full description or repeating the full statement here, but he did say: 
It is a development which we must have very much in mind in assessing the economic outlook. 
It is quite clear from the contents of those 2 paragraphs that the concern to dampen demand was an essential feature of the Budget. I stated that in the question I put to the Minister, and he denied it. 
I will not carry this matter further but what the honourable member has said misrepresents the position completely. The honourable gentleman wants to put an interpretative conclusion on the Budget. The words speak for themself, and his trying to interpret them will not assist in any way. 
Pursuant to section 134 of the Superannuation Act 1922-1969 I present the 48th annual report of the Superannuation Board for the year ended 30th June 1970. 
Pursuant to section 12 of the Parliamentary Retiring Allowances Act 1948-1968 I present the report of the Commonwealth Actuary on the Parliamentary Retiring Allowances Fund for the 4-year period ended 30th June 1970. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to give effect to the Government's decision, announced on 14th February 1972, to restore the investment allowance on manufacturing plant and equipment. The allowance permits a deduction for income tax purposes of 20 per cent of the installed cost of new plant and equipment used in manufacturing, the deduction being made from the income of the year in which the plant is first used or installed for use. This allowance was introduced in February 1962, and remained in force until its suspension in February last year. The decision to restore it was taken recently when the Government decided upon measures to encourage activity in the private sector. 
This step has been taken on the basis of views put to us strongly from many quarters that restoration of the allowance is likely to be conducive to greater confidence and activity. This Bill will restore the allowance, under section 62aa of the Income Tax Assessment Act, as from 14th February 1972. Expenditure incurred on or after that date will qualify regardless of when the contract under which it is incurred was entered into. In other respects the allowance will be as it was before suspension. The rate of allowance will be 20 per cent, and the allowance will apply to precisely the same categories of expenditure as before. The deductions will again be allowable in respect of the income year in which the plant is first used or installed for use. A memorandum explaining technical features of the Bill is being made available to honourable members. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
by leave - I take this opportunity, following the resumption of the Parliament, to inform honourable members at first hand about the current and prospective state of the economy, and about the policy actions taken by the Government since we last met here in December. In this statement I shall spell out what the Government's economic policy objectives are and have been; what they will continue to be in the future; the measures which the Government has taken in pursuit of them; and the flexibility and adequacy of those measures in the light of those objectives. In doing so 1 hope to provide, in particular, evidence of the strength of the economy and its potential for continued growth. 
By way of introduction to these themes, it may however be useful if I first say something about the present position and prospects of the economy as we see them. At the Premiers Conference last week the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  outlined our latest assessment of the economic situation and the prospects over the months ahead. This assessment was the result of a very detailed and thorough examination of the economy which we had been under- - taking since about mid- January. But I want to stress that, although this was a particularly detailed examination, it was not an isolated one. On the contrary, as at the  time of the Budget we undertook to do, we have maintained a virtually continuing review of the economy in recent months. The policy actions which have been taken from November onwards have been the measured outcome of this continuing review. 
There is no doubt that the strains which were affecting the economy a year or so ago have been dispelled. Their removal does not mean, however, that the underlying strength or growth potential of the economy has been impaired. On the contrary, its potential for strong and balanced growth has been enhanced. Some however have claimed - 1 would not say argued - that this otherwise desirable development has been achieved at the expense of bringing on a 'recession'. A good many gloomy statements have been heard to that effect. lt is important to be clear, therefore, that  our review showed that the economy is far from being in a 'recessionary' state. There are indeed some flat spots in . the economy, of which the most notable and  important is. in the area of consumer spending. But demand ' and output overall have continued to grow at a moderate rate during recent months. Even in the absence  of the policy actions, which wc have taken this month, they were expected to grow further. Such a situation is not, of course, what is wanted by those who enjoyed the over-buoyant conditions of a year or so ago but it is steady growth. On the basis of estimates made at the time of our review, gross national product in real terms was expected to increase by about 4 per cent in 1971-72 - that is, in the absence of any further action on our part. 
Undoubtedly, the predominant moderating influence on the growth of total demand has been the trend in consumer spending which, despite the strong growth in personal disposable incomes, has remained subdued. Our experience in this field during 1971 has, indeed, been rather remarkable. Although personal disposable incomes have been growing very fast in money terms throughout the period, there has as yet been little sign of any pick-up in the rate of growth of real consumer spending. As consumer prices have accelerated -markedly over the period, the rate of growth of personal consumption expenditure in real terms has slowed. Perhaps one corollary of that could be that if we could enjoy a greater measure of success in arresting the rate of rise of costs and hence prices, the rate of growth of real consumption might increase somewhat faster than it has of late. But whether that be so or not, it is clear that there was room here for some judicious addition, directly or indirectly, to demand and that is, of course, what we have done. 
In the field of private investment, however, dwelling construction turned upwards in the first half of 1971-72 and recent trends both in commencements and approvals, and particularly the recent record level of finance approvals, indicate a maintenance of this upward trend. Nondwelling investment has shown signs nf levelling out - on the basis of preliminary and seasonally adjusted figures there was some decline in this area- in the December quarter - and we are of course aware in that connection of the deferment of some major construction plans in the area of minerals development. It is however important to remember that this change is occurring from the basis of the extremely high growth rates of recent years. Given those growth rates - particularly" in private non-residential building and construction and in the mining sector - this was only to be expected. 
The external sector of the economy remains very strong. In the 6 months to December 1971 exports exceeded imports by $272m, compared with an excess of $167m in the corresponding period of 1970. There should be a substantial increase in the net addition to overall demand in the economy during 1971-72 from the excess of exports over imports. Public authority spending, of which I shall have more to say later, has been strong. Monetary conditions are currently very easy. The volume of money, including bank deposits, has been growing fast and bank and private sector liquidity generally is currently at a high level. Trading bank lending has increased strongly over recent months. This suggests that our expansive policy on bank lending, first initiated last October and then carried through in December, is becoming effective. In the 3 months to mid-January new overdraft approvals averaged a weekly rate of about $43m compared with $35m in the preceding 3 months. Actual advances outstanding have also been rising strongly. The costs of finance have also been reduced in the economy. The Government has shown that it. firmly intends that financial conditions will not be a restraining influence on the economy over coming months. On the side of production, a strong performance is continuing in most areas of manufacturing. In the December quarter, 24 of the 33 items for which figures are available recorded increases in output com-: pared with the corresponding period of 1970. Of these increases II, including ali the consumer durable items, were of more than 10 per cent. There was also strong growth in the production of gas, plastics and synthetic resins, electricity, bricks and cement, confectionery and beer. The chief area of weakness has been in iron and steel, where production has been affected by a sharp run-down in orders as users adjusted their stock positions. According to the most recent information, this decline in orders has now largely ceased. 1 want here to make, special mention of the prospects for rural industries. These are now more encouraging than they have been for a long time. In broad terms, 1971-72 is expected to see an increase of between 4 per cent and 5 per cent in the volume of rural production ' over the 1.970-71 level. The gross value of rural production is estimated to increase- by some 6 per cent with a probable rise of S pei cent in total farm costs. Farm income is estimated by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics at approximately $1,000m, an increase of 11 per cent over 1970-71. Within this total picture of the rural sector, a particularly welcome recent development is the improvement in the wool market. While markets by their nature are uncertain, it does appear that there may have been a genuine reversal of the downward trend which has afflicted the wool market for some time. More generally, however, there are encouraging, signs across the broad spectrum of rural industries. Meat production, for example, has expanded rapidly and there has been a concurrent expansion in exports. Of particular significance here is the prospect of larger quotas for beef and mutton in the United States. Sugar production is at record levels and favourable world free market prices seem in prospect at least until the current in.ernational sugar agreement expires in 1973. Wheat, although it cannot be expected to maintain the record sales levels of 1970-71, is expected to have another good year. Production, and hence deliveries, was below the quota set for 1971-72, largely because of adverse weather conditions, but carryover stocks for 1973 are likely to be at their lowest level for a number of years. The international dairy products marketing situation has continued on a very firm note with record export prices prevailing. The Government is, naturally, extremely pleased about these improved prospects for many of our rural industries. I must however emphasise that we remain as determined as ever to meet the underlying long-term needs for structural change in this sector of the economy. 
Our recent review of the economy, of course, included a review ot the situation in the labour market and put clearly i:i perspective the situation in the labour market about which so much has been said recently. After a marked rise in August and September, the seasonally adjusted level of unemployment at the end of January had risen only 0.08 per cent above the endSeptember level. That is to say, during the past 4 months the level has inched upwards by only 0.02 per cent per month on average. The fact is that the present unemployment position Ls little different from the longer term pattern. Unemployment, whether measured over a 10-year or a 15-year period, has averaged about 1.4 per cent of the work force, which compares with the present seasonally adjusted level of 1.612 per cent. In passing, I note that it is proper to compare any seasonally adjusted monthly figure with an average over a year or a number of years, since such averaging, by definition, resolves the question of seasonality. If allowance is made for the fact that an important part of the unemployment situation today is the result of the difficult situation which has confronted some of our rural industries, the difference from the long term norm is even smaller. 
The fullness of these facts has not been picked up by some observers. But the facts are as I have stated them; and those facts make nonsense of some irresponsible predictions I have seen reported. For example, one earlier this month was to the effect that another 50,000 people could be out of work within 2 or 3 months. We arc not going to have 170,000 registered unemployed by April. In saying this, 1 must put aside the possibility of some temporary aberration brought by some major industrial stoppage such as we have seen recently in Victoria. On the contrary, possibilities of that kind apart, I expect in February a considerable reduction in the absolute number of registered unemployed. I also expect the downward trend in numbers to continue in the months that follow. 
I have been concerned, and the Government has been concerned, about unemployment, particularly about the person who is registered as unemployed. That, of course, was very much in our minds when 'he measures were announced by the Prime Minister at the Premiers Conference on Monday of last week. Whatever may be said about the unemployment situation, however, one thing clearly stands out. Whereas the unemployment situation is, as I have said, broadly in line with the long term norm, by contrast the rate of increase in prices now is very much further away from what has been the long term experience. 
This is undoubtedly the most difficult problem currently facing the Australian economy. Over the space of 2 years or so we have moved from a position in which prices were increasing at about their average long-term rate - around 2i per cent - to one in which the underlying trend seems to be about 3 times as steep. Whereas our rate of price inflation was, 2 years ago, quite favourable compared with most other developed economies, we are now doing worse than average. This is a development warranting the most serious concern. I have already spelled out publicly on a number of occasions - and do not repeat here - the economic and social consequences, both in the short term and in the long term, which a continuation of the present trend in prices would bring in its train. I do repeat, however, that while there are other factors also operating, it is incontrovertible that the main spring of our present inflationary problem is the continuing excessive rise in wage and salary costs. 
From what I have said, it will be apparent that the detailed review of the economy indicated that the economy was likely to continue growing steadily in the months ahead. Nonetheless, after careful consideration the Government recognised that there was now scope for some moderate improvement in that performance. In particular, we took the view that, while the trend in unemployment had pretty well flattened out over recent months, scope existed for some further stimulus to the level of activity designed to make doubly sure of our objective of maintaining a high level of employment. It was with these considerations in mind that the Government took the significant policy actions announced this month- actions which complemented the other measures taken in the months preceding. lt is not, of course, sufficient merely to state objectives. The test must be in terms of action taken. The actions which we have taken to ensure that our objectives are achieved are there for all to see. Those actions have provided the clearest possible evidence of the Government's flexibility in responding to emerging economic trends. In taking them we have provided a measured response to changing- circumstances in what a dynamic, flexible, continually moving economy and one which, during the period in question, has been more- than usually subject to uncertainty. Lest there be any doubt upon that aspect, let me recall the measures which the Government has taken over recent months. These measures have been carefully weighed and pondered. They will, we are convinced, guard against any possibility that growth in the economy might slacken over the com: ing months, with consequent adverse effects on the demand for labour. But they are, at the same time, measures which will nol so propel the economy that we would jeopardise such hard-won success as. we have so far had in reducing the inflationary pressures. As the Prime Minister has recently said, in this respect we have a narrow path to tread, but we must tread it. 
Overall, the decisions announced by the Prime Minister at the Premiers Conference, together with other fiscal action taken sincethe Budget, are estimated on a costing to add about $122m to Commonwealth Budget outlays in the current financial year. These measures have been on various fronts. They have been directed not only at the general objective of maintaining the momentum of growth but also at certain particular problems within the total framework of the economy. Grants to ameliorate rural unemployment are an important example of this latter kind of measure. Again, the Government proposes that unemployment and associated benefits will be increased substantially. These rates had not been adjusted since 1969 and, for that and other reasons, there is no doubt that the increases now proposed are both desirable and justified. 
I refer next to our decision to restore the special investment allowance on manufacturing plant and equipment. Although the major determinant Of investment expenditure is the expected growth of demand relative to existing capacity, we have had it put to us strongly from many quarters that the restoration of the alowance would be most effective in boosting confidence and stimulating activity. We have accepted that view. Certainly, the decision to restore the allowance has elicited widespread expressions of support. 
In December the Government, as I mentioned earlier, introduced a scheme of grants to the States for employment creating activities in non-metropolitan areas. It was an important step, designed to. attack directly the severe and largely structural unemployment problem in these areas arising in major part out of the longer terra difficulties facing some of our rural industries. While the scheme has already made an important contribution towards alleviating this structural problem of rural unemployment, the evidence already available indicates that more could be done in this field. In particular, several of the State Premiers pointed out to us that they could quickly and effectively allocate larger amounts under this scheme to. urgent and useful works. We therefore agreed with the Premiers that the monthly rate of these grants be increased from $2.25m to$4.5m per month as from the beginning of February. In terms of annual rates this means that pending the review of the scheme which was in any case scheduled for June, expenditure on the scheme will for the coming months be at the rate of $54m per annum. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As the law stands a commercial radio station would not be exempt from tax unless ft qualified for exemption under specific provisions relating to organisations such as religious, scientific, charitable and public educational institutions, trade unions and associations of employers or employees registered under any Act relating to the settlement of industrial disputes, public hospitals and hospitals carried on by an association otherwise than for the purposes of profit or gain to individual members. 
, (3) and (4) Subject to some specific exemptions which are not relevant here, the secrecy provisions of the income tax law preclude the Commissioner of Taxation from disclosing information relating (o the affairs of any person or company. So far as I am aware, however, there are no stations which would qualify for exemption under the provisions referred to in the reply to (1). 
I move: 
That the  Bill  be now read a second  time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to enable the Commonwealth to meet its obligation under a guarantee of repayment of certain borrowings by the Australian Wheat Board from the Reserve Bank of Australia, in respect of wheat from the 1970-71 pool. Similar loans were made last year and the year before in respect of the 1969-70 and 1968-69 pools. To assist in the marketing of 1970-71 pool wheat, arrangements were made for the Board to borrow up to $364m from the rural credits department of the Reserve Bank. The date for final repayment is 31st March 1972, approximately 12 months after the drawings were made, in order to comply with section 57 of the Reserve Bank Act which requires that loans of this type shall not be made for more than one year. Receipts by the Board from sales of wheat will be insufficient to enable it to repay the borrowings in full by the due date. This will mean that the Commonwealth will be liable  under its guarantee for an amount currently expected to be in the vicinity of $95m, recoupment of which is estimated to take approximately 11 months. 
It is proposed that the Commonwealth lend to the Board sufficient funds to enable it to discharge its debt to the Bank. It is also proposed that the Board be required to use for repayment of the loan all net proceeds from export sales of wheat of the 1970-71 pool, after the date of the loan, as well as the Commonwealth's stabilisation payment. The Bill provides that the loan to the Board be at an interest rate of 5) per cent per annum on the daily balances outstanding, with the actual timing of capital repayments and interest to be specified by the Treasurer. The interest rate is the same as that charged on last year's loan. 
The Bill authorises the Commonwealth to borrow up to$150m to make theloan to the Board. This exceeds the Board's current estimate of the amount required under the guarantee but, as such estimates are subject to substantial variation, the amount specified in the Bill provides a margin in case estimate proves too low. The Australian Loan Council has agreed to a special borrowing programme for this purpose for the Commonwealth in 1971-72. The terms of the borrowing will be subject to Loan Council approval.I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Patterson)  adjourned. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The main purpose of this Bill is to authorise the payment of grants totalling $6. 66m to the States in 1971-72 for the purpose of financing capital expenditure on government primary and secondary schools. The Bill also authorises the borrowing of funds to finance these grants and the payments of grants for the same purpose in the first 6 months of 1972-73. On 9th December 1971 the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  announced in the House of Representatives that increases would be made in the rate of Commonwealth assistance to independent schools, and that grants totalling $20m would be paid to the States in the period up to 30th June 1973 for the purpose of financing capital expenditure on government primary and secondary schools. A Bill to authorise the increased payments to independent schools has already been introduced into the House by my colleague, the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser). 
The Prime Minister explained in his statement that the Government had decided to make the grants to the States for capital expenditure on government schools in recognition of the needs expressed by the Stales for additional expenditure in this area. As he has also explained, it is proposed that the grants be paid as additions to the interest-free capital grants which the Commonwealth is now making to the States annually as part of their works and housing programmes. The capital giants forming part of the 1971-72 works and housing programmes approved at the June 1971 meeting of the Loan Council were authorised in the States Grants (Capital Assistance) Act 1971 passed in the last sittings. The main purpose of this Bill is to amend that Act so as to authorise that part of the additional grants of $20m for expenditure on government schools which is to be paid this year, namely $6. 66m, or one-third of the total amount of $20m. 
I turn now to discuss some of the specific provisions of the Bill. In clause 3, which in conjunction with the third column in the table which forms the schedule to the Bill authorises the payments of grants totalling $6.66m to the States in 1971-72, the grant to each State is stated to be 'for the purpose of financial assistance in connection with expenditure of a capital nature on primary schools and secondary schools conducted by that State'. The intention of this statement is to identify these particular grants as being separate from the general purpose capital assistance grants made available to the States under the principal Act. While the Commonwealth has not thought to attach any legally binding conditions to the present grants, the Prime Minister has made it clear both in his statement to the House and in letters to the Premiers that the Commonwealth expects that the States will continue with at least their planned levels of capita] expenditure in primary and secondary schools, and that these grants will therefore result in additions to the levels of expenditure in this area. The Prime Minister also stated that the Commonwealth would prefer the grants to be used for purposes other than science laboratories and libraries in secondary schools since the Commonwealth is providing special direct assistance for those purposes. The States have accepted the grants on these terms and are developing their capital works programmes for schools accordingly. 
Clause 4 of the Bill increases, by the amount of S6.66m. the amount which the Treasurer may borrow for the purpose of financing the capital grants. It is the Government's intention to apply the proceeds of any loan moneys that may be available for the purpose to this expenditure. To the extent that these grants cannot be financed from borrowings, section 6 of the existing Act provides for payment to be made from the Consolidated Revenue Fund. Section 7 of the principal Act, in conjunction with the Schedule, authorises the Treasurer to make advances in the first 6 months of 1972-73 up to a maximum of half the grants payable to each State in the current financial year. The purpose of that provision is to enable advances to be made to the States in 1972-73 pending the passage of comparable legislation in that year. The Commonwealth's undertaking to pay portion of the States' works and housing programmes to them as grants has continuing effect, and this section ensures that advances can be made to the States on a regular basis from the beginning of 1972-73. 
Clause 5 of the present Bill gives the Treasurer similar authority in respect of the additional grants for expenditure on government schools. Under this clause, the Treasurer may authorise grants for this purpose in the first 6 months of 1972-73 up to a maximum for each State equal to the grants payable in 1971-72, that is, a total amount for all States of $6.66m. This is because the grants payable this year are approximately half those which will be payable next year, that is $ 13.34m. The payment of the full amount of $13. 34m for next year will be authorised under a Bill to be introduced in the Budget sittings to authorise the capital grants for 1972-73 following the approval of borrowing programmes for that year at the June 1972 meeting of the Loan Council. 
I should explain at this juncture that the States will continue to benefit from these grants in years subsequent to 1972-73 because they will be amalgamated into the basic capital grants for the purpose of determining the proportion of the works and housing programme that is paid to the States as grants rather than loans, thus reducing the States' debt charges correspondingly. At the Premiers Conference and Loan Council meeting on 14th February the works and housing programme for 1971-72 was increased by $32m, including an increase in the capital grants of $9.3m. These additional grants will be authorised in a further Bill to be introduced shortly. The States are free to disburse these additional programmes as they decide themselves, although some of them have already announced that they will allocate part of the increase to expenditure on government schools. The Government believes that the grants authorised by this Bill represent a significant contribution by the Commonwealth in the field of education. They have been welcomed as such by the States. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Daly)  adjourned. 
When the Budget is being formulated I will give consideration to lifting sales tax off these items. I will also give consideration to lifting sales tax off at least 30 items in respect of which representations have been made to me in exactly the same way. 
I have read an immense amount of material about incomeprices policies throughout the world.  Mr Aubrey  Jones is not the only man who has spoken about them. I have studied those policies quite closely. I extend an invitation to the honourable member and to all honourable members to read an address I made to the Committee for the Economic Development of Australia last year. I can provide a copy of it. The honourable member will see that I traversed all the problems 'that relate to income-prices policies and I dealt in particular with 3 major issues. One is the coverage - that is, which incomes should be covered because there is a variety of incomes. Another relates to prices, because there is also a variety of commodities. Another is the duration of the application of the scheme. Is it to be a permanent feature of economic management or is it to be temporary? 
The third point to be determined is the nature of the sanction. Will it lead to prosecution? Of course, I have in mind the undertaking given by the Prime Minister that a White Paper will be presented to the Parliament which will traverse the experiences of all overseas countries that have adopted income-prices policies. The purpose of that is to allow honourable members to be informed and to debate the issue. The honourable member also asked me whether I am still in favour of a prices justification scheme. I must say that I have heard this term used time and time again. I will make available to the honourable member a copy of another address that I made in which I said that there may be grounds for a prices notification scheme, which needed to be examined. There is a very big difference between notification and justification - a very big difference. The honourable gentleman would be wise in framing his questions to make sure that they are based soundly on facts. 
I have seen the Press reports and I will provide the honourable gentleman with a copy of a statement I issued last night in which I said that I had no such proposal before me. Also in that statement I quoted the relevant parts of the address that I gave. When one reads the relevant part it will be perfectly clear that there was no basis upon which such an assumption could be made. Indeed, the way in which it arose was that I was illustrating to an expert body, the Taxpayers Association of Australia at its annual meeting, the point that when any suggestion is made about a particular tax measure it is not sufficient to look at only one consequence or one objective but that it is necessary to look at each consequence to see whether it conflicts with other consequences. The curious thing, of course, is that such opposition as I have read was based on the very points which I had myself identified as problems in that same speech. It was illustrative and illustrative only. It is very easy to be wise after the event, and I am wiser now. If I had realised that this furore would arise I would have used a different illustration, but such are the hazards of politics. 
by leave - Last week I received from the Superannuation Board the report by the Commonwealth Actuary, who was appointed by the Board under section 17 of the Superannuation Act to make the ninth quinquennial investigation of the Superannuation Fund covering the period of 5 years ending 30th June 1967. A further report expressing the Board's views accompanied the Actuary's report. Having in mind the time that has passed since the end of the quinquennial period and the great interest that has been shown by honourable members, staff associations and individual contributors and pensioners in the outcome of this investigation, I am tabling the reports now in advance of their being considered by the Government. 
While the completion of this investigation has taken longer than is customary, this does not reflect on the Commonwealth Actuary or the Board. I think honourable members already know that the main reason for the delay was the need to introduce an extensive computer system and to transfer to it the detailed records of contributors and pensioners retrospectively to the date of their entries into the scheme, in some cases as far back as 1922. But, while the reorganisation of the Board's records delayed completion of the ninth investigation, it will facilitate greatly future investigations. The Board has stated in its report that all the statistical and valuation data for the next investigation covering the 5 years ending 30th June 1972 should be available to the Actuary by November of this year and that the Actuary's investigation should be completed during 1973. 
I first very briefly sum up the conclusions reached by the Actuary and the Board. The Actuary has advised that, in his view, there was a gross surplus of assets over liabilities of $14,779,000 in the Fund as at 30th June 1967 and has recommended a conversion from the present unit purchase pension scheme to a new superannuation arrangement based on percentage of salary rates of contribution. He considers that the surplus should be applied to facilitate the transfer of existing pensioners and contributors to the new scheme he has proposed and to assist in meeting the cost of new benefits under that scheme. The Board also does not favour a cash distribution of the surplus but has concluded that the balance of advantage to members would lie in applying the surplus assets at 30th June 1967 to the payment of selected additional benefits under the proposed percentage of salary contribution scheme or the present scheme. 
The Board considers that, if a percentage of salary contribution scheme were introduced, it would be appropriate for any remaining surplus assets to be applied for the benefit of eligible contributors and pensioners with an equity in the Fund as at 30th June 1967 who transfer to the new scheme. Alternatively, if the existing unit of pension scheme were to be retained, the Board suggests that any remaining surplus assets should be applied to a further extension of pension benefits with particular reference to those provided for widows and children. 
As I have already said, the Actuary's investigation led him to the view that there was a surplus of assets over liabilities of $14,779,000 as at 30th June 1967. The surplus is largely due to the adoption of an increased interest valuation rate of 5 per cent compared with the previous rate of 3 J per cent as at 30th June 1962 and the interest rate adopted for the distribution of surplus assets at 30th June 1962 in accordance with the Superannuation Act. No. 97 of 1965, namely 51 per cent for the period 1962 to 1972 and 4i per cent thereafter, lt is not an accounting surplus. What it represents is the excess of the amount of the fund at 30th June 1967 and the present value at that date of future contributions by contributors then in the scheme, a total of 5471.398,000 over the present value at 30th June 1967 of future benefits payable to pensioners and contributors in the scheme at that date, an amount of$456,619,000. 
Thus, in carrying out his valuation, it has been necessary for the Actuary to make judgments about the course of things over a long period into the future. For instance, at present rates of longevity some persons contributing to the fund at 30th June 1967. or their widows, could be drawing pension as late as 2050. But a scheme that commenced 50 years ago is not likely to be without its problems and attention has been directed to these by both the Actuary and the Board in their reports. Undoubtedly the most important problem is the burden that escalating contributions may represent in the final stages of a member's career. 
As explained by the Actuary, this flows from the unit purchase basis of the scheme, the underlying principle of which is that the contribution for each unit of pension, when combined with other similar contributions, has to be sufficient to enable the fund to pay its share of the benefits attached to units, whenever those benefits may become payable. Thus a unit taken out at a young age will be paid for over a long period and the fortnightly rate of contribution will be correspondingly low. Conversely, a unit taken out in the last few years before the selected age for retirement must be paid for over a much shorter period and the fortnightly rate of contribution will be relatively higher. 
The present scheme has been modified in two respects so that members have an alternative to forgoing additional entitlements for which they cannot afford to pay. The first modification afforded members the opportunity of taking up a maximum of 12 reserve units that can be converted to active units at some later time. The second modification was to provide for noncontributory units, which are available to members who have reached age 40 and are able to meet certain conditions regarding the level of their contributions and active units held. But a consequence of electing to take non-contributory units is a reduction in the member's ultimate pension entitlement. 
The scheme that the Actuary has proposed and which the Board has concluded should be adopted as the model for early development of revised superannuation arrangements for Commonwealth employees, expresses contributions as a constant percentage of salary throughout a member's service, the actual percentage rate being determined by the member's age when entering the scheme. Under such a scheme it can be expected that a member would pay more in his early years than he does at present but less in the years approaching retirement. The post-1959 defence forces retirement benefits scheme incorporated this contribution principle. 
On the benefits side the Actuary sees the primary objective of the scheme to be the provision of a pension benefit and proposes significant changes in the way benefits are determined. Some of the important features of the scheme he has put forward are as follows: 
There would not be any provision for the tapering of the benefit when salary exceeds a particular level. 
Pension at retirement would be a proportion of the average salary received in the 3 years before retirement, the proportion reflecting years of membership of the scheme. 
Invalid pension would be calculated by reference to average salary and prospective years of membership had the member continued to serve until his normal retiring age. 
Widow's benefit would be five-eighths of either the member's age or the invalid benefit. 
Children's and orphans' pensions would be 10 per cent and 20 per cent respectively of the invalid benefit. 
Persons who could not meet the prescribed medical standards would contribute for pension benefits on a limited basis. 
There would be provision for pensions to be adjusted annually on the basis of changes in the consumer price index. 
In its comments on the proposed scheme the Board has indicated that it favours the inclusion of a commutation provision. It also observes that the scheme removes the right to purchase full pension at age 60 and that, as the pension benefit available would vary according to years of service, it follows that the scheme would, in some cases provide lower benefits than are available under the present arrangements. 
The Government is. of course, aware of problems with the present scheme and honourable members will recall that the introduction of non-contributory units in 1969 was designed specifically to ease the burden on older contributors to the scheme. More recently, my Department commenced a full investigation of the scheme. As part of this investigation it will look closely at the Actuary's and the Board's proposals. I expect it to complete its task later this year. 
We also know that the Council of Commonwealth Public Service Organisations, with which many of the staff associations covering Commonwealth employees are affiliated, is developing proposals for a new superannuation scheme. We will, of course, give full consideration to any proposals that the Council puts forward as well as to representations regarding the present scheme and suggestions for change from other bodies and individuals. 
In its report the Board has listed some of the proposals that have already come forward and has included estimates of the extent to which the liabilities of the fund would be increased as at 30th June 1967 if selected additional benefits were available to pensioners and contributors from 30th June 1967. For instance: 
Increasing a child's pension from $4 to $8 a week and the minimum pension for an orphan from $10 to $15 a week would increase the liabilities by $2. 3m. 
Increasing the widows benefit from five-eighth pension to two-thirds would increase the liabilities by $llm. 
Providing pension for the widow of a marriage after retirement would increase the liabilities by $16m. 
Providing interest on refunds of contributions would increase the liabilities by $21m. 
Automatically increasing pensions after retirement in accordance with changes in the cost of living would increase the liabilities by $180m. 
Thus the estimated total increase in the liabilities of the fund as at 30th June 1967 that would result from granting these additional benefits is $230,300,000 and may be compared with the disclosed surplus of $14,779,000. The increase in the liabilities of the Commonwealth flowing from the increases in pension benefits would, of course, be very much higher. 
When existing superannuation pensions were increased last year orphans whose pensions are calculated by reference to the widows pension were the only children who benefited directly from the increases. Those in receipt of the fixed rates of pension specified in the Act that apply to future pensioner children and orphans as well did not receive an increase. When introducing the Superannuation (Pension Increases) Bill, the Government said that the position of orphans and children would be given special consideration when the results of the quinquennial investigations of the Superannuation and Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Funds become available. Later, after considering representations from the Council of Commonwealth Public Service Organisations, I told the Council that I would look at the situation of children and orphans again as soon as I received the Actuary's report on the Superannuation Fund. The matter is already being examined by my Department and I hope to be in a position shortly to put proposals to the Government. 
The Commonwealth Superannuation Fund, with well over 190,000 contributors and 30,000 pensioners, is the largest superannuation scheme in the country. As an employer the Government places great importance on the provision of sound and beneficial superannuation arrangements for its employees and the many improvements in the present scheme that have been effected over the years are evidence of this. But the reports of the Actuary and the Board give emphasis to 2 questions that are already in our minds. Can the present scheme be modified further so that it can continue to meet the needs of contributors and pensioners in the future or must it be replaced by a new scheme involving different contribution and benefit principles? These questions are of great importance and warrant careful and thoughtful consideration. 
I present the following paper: 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the States Grants Act (No. 2) 1971 to authorise the payment to the Slates in 1971-72 of further special revenue assistance totalling$1 5m. At the Premiers Conference and Australian Loan Council meetingon 14th February the Commonwealth and  the  States agreed to a series of measures under which the States and their authorities would receive additional funds totalling some $85. 8m in 1971-72. The measures comprise increases in the States' works and housing programmes, increases in the States' semi-government borrowing programmes, additional grants for the relief of non-metropolitan unemployment, the additional revenue grants provided by this Bill and a special loan o New South Wales to assist that State with its budgetary difficulties. 
The increased Loan Council programmes are covered in some detail in my second reading speech on the States Grants (Capital Assistance) Bill 1972. The Commonwealth is providing the increased unemployment relief grants with the specific purpose of increasing employment in nonmetropolitan areas and it supported the increases in the borrowing programmes also with the object of stimulating employment as well as enabling the States and their authorities to carry out additional public works, particularly in urban areas. The grants authorised by this Bill are for the purpose of assisting the States' revenue budgets, and the States may use them either to increase expenditures or to improve their budget results as they individually decide. 
This assistance will be additional to the special assistance of $40m which the Commonwealth agreed to provide in 1971-72 at the June 1971 Premiers Conference. That increase is authorised in section 10 of the States Grants Act (No. 2) 1971. As with that assistance, the present additional grants are not included in the base grants for the purpose of calculating the formula grants for 1972-73 and subsequent years. As with the earlier $40m, the present $l5m is to be distributed between the States in the same proportions as the financial assistance grants payable to them in 1971-72 under the States Grants Act (No. 2) 1971, but before making the adjustments to those grants which are accompanying the transfer of pay-roll tax to the States. 
Since the amounts of these grants will not be finally determined by the Commonwealth Statistician until towards the end of the financial year, each State's share of the $1 5m is not known precisely at this stage. However, the approximate amounts payable to the States are as follows: New South Wales, $5m; Victoria, $3.7m; Queensland, $2.3m; South Australia. $1.6m; Western Australia, $1.7m; and, Tasmania, $0.7m. Total, $15m. 
It became clear during the discussions at the Premiers Conference that New South Wales had in prospect a much greater budgetary problem in 1971-72 than any of the other States. The Commonwealth therefore agreed to provide a special loan of $ 1 7.5m to the State this financial year in order to enable it to avoid taking extreme measures to improve its budgetary position. The terms and conditions of the advance will be similar to those attached to the advance of $10m made to Victoria in 1969-70. With the concurrence of the House I shall have these terms and conditions incorporated in Hansard. 
--] move: 
That  the  Bill be now  read a  second  lime. 
The purpose of this Bill is to increase by $9.3m the capital grants payable to the States in 1971-72 as part of the works and housing programmes for the year. This measure arises from the decisions agreed upon at the Premiers Conference on 14th February which, taken together, will increase the funds available to the States in 1971-72 by $85.8m. In his opening statement at the Premiers Conference, the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  said that, in the light of the Government's overall objective, including maintaining the momentum of economic growth and hence of employment, we believe there was a case for an increase in both the works and housing and the semi-government programmes of the States. 
Within the overall picture of rather stronger growth in public sector expenditure this year than last year, total public authority capital expenditures were growing more slowly than were current expenditures. Moreover, despite considerable special assistance from the Commonwealth, rapidly escalating wage costs had meant that in 1970-71 a number of important State works had had to be deferred. Similarly, the works activities of certain of the State semi-government and local authorities had also had to be curtailed. It was also notable that the loan raising programmes of public authorities had been very successful so far this financial year. 
The conference subsequently agreed that, firstly, the works and housing pro grammes of the States should be increased by S32m, bringing the total for 1971-72 to S892m and secondly, the semi-government borrowing programmes of the States should be increased by $10ni, bringing the total for 1971-72 to S436. m. These increases were formally approved by the Australian Loan Council. It was agreed that S30m of the increase in the works and housing programmes would be on the same basis as the existing programmes - that is, approximately one-quarter would be interest-free capital grant and the remainder loan money - with the remaining S2m being entirely by way of interestfree capital grant. This additional S2m interest-free capital grant was to be provided by the Commonwealth having regard to the continuing costs in which the States would be involved in administering the conversion to the metric system. The States agreed that, with this assistance, which will be reflected in and will escalate with the interest-free capital grant component of works and housing programmes in future years, they would meet these costs from their own resources. 
The increased loan funds and capital grants will be distributed between the States in the same proportions as the existing programmes. They will have a direct impact in increasing employment and will permit the carrying out of additional worthwhile public works, particularly in urban areas, such as hospitals, schools, water and sewerage projects and the like. The Commonwealth also gave an undertaking to the States that the level of the works and housing and the semi-government borrowing programmes it will be prepared to support for 1972-73 will not be less than the total programmes in 1971-72 as decided at the February meeting. 
In agreeing to the Commonwealth proposal to increase the borrowing programmes, the Premiers gave their assurance that the additional funds will, so far as is practicable without loss of efficiency and effectiveness, be utilised quickly, having in mind the desirability of producing an early impact on employment. 
I now turn to the specific provisions of this Bill. Clause 3 increases the authority to borrow by $9.3m so that, if it were judged practicable and desirable, the Commonwealth could borrow sufficient funds to cover the total amounts of the capital grants to the States. Clause 4 repeals the Schedule to the principal Act and inserts a new Schedule. Only the second and fourth columns of the former schedule have been changed. The second column lists the amount of the grant payable to each State in 1971-72. The amounts in the Schedule to the principal Act have been increased as follows: 

<graphic href="076131197203084_53_0.jpg"></graphic>

The fourth column in the new Schedule, as in the Schedule to the principal Act, shows amounts equal to half the corresponding amount in the second column. The amounts in the fourth column represent the maximum advances which may be made in the first half of 1972-73 pending the passage of legislation to authorise the capital grants in 1972-73. The provisions of this Bill form part of a series of measures that were designed to produce an early impact on employment, and will permit the carrying out of additional worthwhile works projects. They have been warmly welcomed by all the Premiers. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
There was no specific reference to the local government bodies. The honourable gentleman will remember that in the hand-over of payroll tax to the States specific provision was made whereby the Commonwealth failed to deduct from the total of the grants that amount which the States would be able to give to the local government bodies by exempting them from payroll tax on their noncommercial activities. But in the more recent discussions there was no specific reference to local government bodies, lt is the objective of the Commonwealth to provide the States with a sufficient level of funds so that the States themselves can take what policy actions they wish in relation to local government bodies. Under our Constitution local government bodies are created, regulated and have statutory provisions made for them by the, State governments, so to the extent that we can do so having regard to the totality of competing priorities in Australia, we provide the States with as much money as we can so that they can discharge that obligation. 
As to the company mentioned and the ramifications of who owns it and who took it over, I make no comment because 1 do not have that infor mation in my head. But I think the significant point that the honourable gentleman raises in his question is: When will legislation come in? 
I am hoping that it will be in this session. Fortunately, special arrangements have been able to be made for the drafting of the legislation. All the policy decisions were taken some weeks ago. The policy decisions having been taken, it is a matter of translating them into the actual written word of the Bill. I pay tribute to the State Government of Victoria and to the Victorian Parliamentary Draftsman. We have had made available to us the services of a very outstanding draftsman, who happens to be a lady draftsman, who will be working on this task. I hope that 1 will have the draft legislation before too many weeks have passed. 
 The honourable gentleman must know that the preliminary to his question is wrong. I did not suggest it as a possible course of action. I used h as an illustration to show that when one point of view was put it was necessary to see all the consequences. In demonstrating all the consequences  1  pointed out the burdens that would fall upon certain people now married being separately assessed and if this sort of base were adopted it would be a burden on them. That is what  1  made clear. I used it as an illustration. Let that b* the end of it; the clarification has been made.  1  know that members of the Opposition are more interested in chasing personalites than getting down to realities. So far  as  I am concerned, it is realities that I want to pursue and I will continue to pursue them in this House and elsewhere. If I find it necessary to have an informed public I will put before the public all the -mailers that I think are important for the public to have so that it can make an informed judgment. There is no proposal before me; there is no intention to put a proposal to the Government. What  T  said was used as an illustration and nothing more. 
The view expressed in the second part of the honourable member's question is one which is held by a great number of people. I will submit it to examination, ft will come up for examination in a Budget context where it will stand its place against other competing priorities for the foregoing of revenue or for the expenditure of money. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth Statistician has advised that it will be some considerable time before detailed final results of the 1971 Census of Population and Housing will be available. Final population totals for all States and Territories are not expected to be available before July 1972. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
From time to time proposals to introduce bonus bonds or premium or lottery bonds similar to those issued in New Zealand, the United Kingdom and certain other countries have been considered by the Government and by the Australian Loan Council. 
The Loan Council has not been prepared to approve the issue of such bonds. For its part, the Government has preferred to raise funds from small investors through the issue of Special Bonds. These have been an outstanding success. During the thirteen years they have been on issue, cash subscriptions have totalled over $1,200 million. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth Banking Corporation has provided the following information: 
The Commonwealth Banking Corporation has not conducted any surveys of land prices of the kind referred to in the question. However, when reviewing the adequacy of maximum housing loans from time to time, surveys are made by the Corporation of land values with that particular purpose in mind. The most recent survey completed by the Corporation was designed to compare land values between the first half of 1968 and the first 3 to 4 months of 1971 in respect of 3 broad categories of land described as 'modest', 'medium' and 'good' in and around the 6 capital cities. Results of the survey are appended. Strictly comparable figures for earlier periods are not available. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commissioner of Taxation has advised that, as the number of school building funds currently in operation which have been approved for the purposes of section 78 (1.) (a) (xv) of the income Tax Assessment Act exceeds 2,000, it is not practicable to supply a complete list of the applications which have received consideration in each year since 1960. Details are not available which would enable an accurate segregation to be made between Government schools. Catholic private schools and non-Catholic private schools. 
and (3) It is also impracticable to furnish details of the exact nature and value of each project for which approval has been sought for income tax purposes. 
The words of the Chancellor in his Budget Speech have been conveyed to me. Honourable members will remember that the voluntary restraints were introduced in 1966 as a temporary measure when the British balance of payments was under a very great strain. The restraints have remained in force since then. They applied to direct investment in Australia and to portfolio investment by institutions. It has been a source of difficulty over the years that it subsisted and I therefore strongly welcome the United Kingdom decision as a reflection of the co-operation between that country and Australia because it does remove this source of difficulty. More than that, I think it is important that at a time when we have changing relationships with the United Kingdom because of Britain's impending entry into the European Economic Community it has a long term significance for us. As to the level of investment which may follow from the decision, I would not make any predictions on this because there are indications that the United Kingdom companies manage to change the sources which provide finance. 
They went on to the Euro-dollar market and brought money to Australia to finance their direct investments. It may only change  -  I emphasise the word 'may' - the sources of money rather than the level of the money. So I will not make any predictions about it. Another important factor which I think must be taken into account when refusing to make predictions is that the United Kingdom has eased the investment conditions for EEC countries and that will enable the British investor to examine the relative desirability of his investments in the EEC and the 4 Sterling countries affected which, of course, are Australia, South Africa, New Zealand and Ireland. 
 I am glad that we had the ringing peroration of the last sentence of the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  or I would have wondered what was the the purpose of this debate. The honourable member started off by discussing the gaps in information. There is nothing new in that. The right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  made a speech a week or so ago which I read in which he drew attention to the lack of certain information. What he did, I think, was to point out the need for more complete information about capital flow between Australia and overseas countries. There can be no question about the need for such information and I should point out that substantial improvements are already in train in this area. The Reserve Bank is making urgent efforts to expand and upgrade its collections of data on capital movements. At the same time, the Commonwealth Statisitician is extending his range of private overseas investment estimates. Last year, a new survey of overseas borrowings by companies in Australia was commenced. A new survey of nominees which will enable the Statistician more reliably to estimate portfolio investment from abroad is being undertaken and further new collections are now receiving intensive examination. These various advances will, in time, overcome important gaps in our knowledge of overseas investment in Australia. 
Apart from his final sentence, the speech of the honourable member for Melbourne Ports really boiled down to the fact that we have gaps in information and this must be acknowledged. He also quoted from what he termed was a surreptitious report of the Gray Committee in Canada which, as I understand it, has not yet received publicity and has not been considered by the Canadian Government. Our Government has set in train an intensive study and this was acknowledged by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports during his speech. We have given this study high priority. Last week I set out the main lines of the inquiry. The honourable gentleman referred to a speech made by the Prime 
Minister  (Mr McMahon)  to the Mining Council this week. However, when he made his formal announcement in the House a few weeks ago, the Prime Minister made a point with which I concur, namely, that it is a proper vehicle for debate when we have the White Paper. Of course, the discussion of a matter of public importance or, as it is commonly called, an urgency motion, just is not a suitable vehicle for debating such a complex subject as this with its very great magnitude of consideration. To have a debate that is meaningful requires factual analysis and that is what the White Paper sets out to do. 
That having been said, there are some elements which are known and those that are known must be seen in the totality of the situation. This again is another reason for the study - not merely to permit debate but to permit full knowledge before the debate occurs. What are some of the elements which are known? Capital inflow is at record levels. We can show this perhaps succinctly by the February official reserve assets analysis by the Commonwealth Statistician which indicates that our official reserves stand at $3,027m, which was an increase of $156m in February. For the 8 months of the financial year the increase was $747m. If that is compared with the same 8 months of the previous financial year it will be found that the increase then was $188m. The magnitude of the increase is apparent just by the stating of the figures. In February net apparent private capital inflow was about $190m. In January it was down but if January and February are averaged out it is found that the inflow comes to about $140m, which was the rate on average at which it was running in the first half of the financial year. So it would appear that there is no slackening. 
Then, of course, there was the Reserve Bank's analysis of exchange control approvals. I am surprised that the honourable member for Melbourne Ports, who has seen this report and referred to it, did not acknowledge the very great advance in information that that document represents. I see that he is nodding his head and I appreciate his acknowledgment . of it because I believe that it does add a great deal to our sum of information. The 
Bank's paper deals with approvals of inward flow of capital and it draws attention to the fact that in the calendar year 1970 the approvals for inflow were $1,1 56m, whereas in the calendar year 1971 they were $2, 152m, an increase of $ 1,000m. This rise of $ 1,000m was entirely accounted for in borrowed funds. This is a very significant change and a change about which conclusions ought not to be jumped to, although a general line of conclusion can be clearly seen and that is the difference between funds directly invested gaining equity interest as compared with borrowed funds which gain no equity interest. 
One of the interesting points that comes out of this report is the immense growth in the borrowed funds of Australian enterprises as compared with overseas enterprises. True it is that overseas enterprise borrowings were $900m-odd but the borrowing by Australian owned enterprises was $700m-odd and represented for the Australian owned enterprises a sixfold increase in their borrowings in that year. Of course, one must acknowledge the very significant role played by the merchant banking sector in putting Australian enterprise in touch with the totality of the world money market: 
The honourable member for Melbourne Ports referred to the 3 categories - wholesale and retail trade, minerals and mining and processing, and the biggest group of banking, finance and insurance. As the Reserve Bank pointed ' out, there are no details of onward lending! The honourable member said that this is a very great gap. Well, it is a gap - that must be acknowledged - but I think the honourable gentleman is on dangerous ground if he says it can be cured simply by wishing it to be cured. There are a great number of difficulties involved in that. Obviously, there would need to be great co-operation from the financial intermediaries in their on-borrowing and, of course, the onborrowing may go through several hands. The tracing of this borrowing would not be easy. Also it would be a major statistical exercise. I do not say that it cannot be done, nor do I say that it should not be done but we must acknowledge the difficulty which is involved. 
The new borrowings were for longer periods as 1971 progressed. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports has the Bank's report and he will see in that report how the length of time for repayment of the borrowed funds had grown quite dramatically as 1971 progressed and apparently, in 1972, the high levels of longer term borrowing have continued. The increase of the inflow largely reflects this increased borrowed money both from Australian owned and overseas owned companies and the Treasury paper will examine these and other facts and direct attention will be given to benefits and costs. 
In relation to benefits and costs, let me set out some of the benefits. It increases our capital resources and adds immensely to the capital formation available in this country, without which there is no doubt that our advancement in the post-war years would have been seriously retarded and the advancement during the 1960s which has been so great and in the 1970s which promises to be even greater would not have been able to be achieved and, the general standards of living of our community would have been consequentially less. So that is one advantage. Another advantage is that it disseminates productivity increases. It has had a very pervasive influence on the totality of our industrial complex and the diversification of it. It produces technological spin-offs and of course, importantly, it provides market connections. A very important part of the partnership arrangements that have been made with some of our basic industries - more so than with the manufacturing industries - has been to provide market outlets. A perfect example of that is aluminium. 
Some of the costs of foreign investment are the direct foreign exchange cost of servicing overseas capital and the indirect costs through Increases in foreign ownership and control. For example, in 1969-70 company income payable overseas was one-third, compared with one-quarter in the mid-1960s. The implied growth of foreign ownership extends the area where Australia's national interest and the interests of foreign companies and governments may not coincide. As far as capital inflow is concerned we have a benefit. On the other side of the coin are the costs. What must be national policy is to make sure that in the ultimate we benefit rather than debit. The measurement of how much we must benefit is difficult to assess. I think that .the guidelines that the honourable gentleman is pointing out as the Labor Parry's policy are far too constrictive. They seem to be pitched on the basis of analysing every individual item of inflow to make sure that that individual item of inflow would constitute a benefit. I very seriously doubt the capacity of a country to put every individual investment through that analysis. But that is a matter for consideration. 
Some possible conflicts of interest I should mention are the restrictions imposed on exporting of foreign subsidiaries; directives to such subsidiaries to favour suppliers in the parent company's country; attempts to avoid taxes otherwise payable in Australia; and insufficient use of Australian technical and managerial staff. However, let it not be forgotten that overseas owned enterprises are in an important sense subject to Australian control. They operate within the general framework of Australian law and Government policies. In the very many conversations I have had with people from overseas I have found that they are very anxious to co-operate entirely with whatever Government policies may be. Because most of the recent rise in capital inflow has been in borrowings, the impact of the total flow on foreign ownership and control today may be different from what it would have been before when there was not that borrowing content. 
An important issue raised by the recent sharp increase in borrowings abroad, both by locally and overseas owned firms, is that Australian monetary policy becomes more susceptible to influences from abroad than it has been in the past. This may aggravate the difficulties of economic management. It is a question to which the Treasury study will pay particular attention. I do not propose to come to any conclusions now. The broad structure of the Treasury paper will be measurement of overseas investment, the statistical information, overseas investment and the balance of payments, overseas investment and the economy, overseas ownership and control of Australian industry and resources, and overseas investment and domestic economic management. I hope that the honourable member for Melbourne Ports, with whom we have had many happy associations, is not suggesting that we should take immediate action now by bringing on this debate. I am sure he does not suggest that, simply because he cannot say what action the Australian Labor Party would take. He mentioned some guidelines but he has not submitted those guidelines to anything like the examination they require. I see that he nods in agreement, and I agree that he correctly does so. 
Surely this is no time for hasty decisions. It is a time to acknowledge the problems, get the information, have the public debate and expose the issues so that we can have the national interest examined by those people who benefit or suffer from decisions taken in relation to the national interest. That is my purpose and my objective. I hope that the Treasury paper will be available by the end of next month but, as the honourable gentleman would know, it is a very deep, complex issue and we must make sure that we traverse, all the avenues that would be wanted by the Parliament in order to pursue the debate. It is a big subject. I hope I can get the paper by the end of next month, but do not press me unduly. 
The investment allowance which was introduced in 1962 continued until - if my recollection is correct - 3rd February 1971. It was then suspended. The word 'suspended' was emphasised by myself, the Prime Minister and other Ministers. At the Premiers Conference on 14th February we decided that as there was expectation in the community that we would honour the word 'suspended' action would be taken. We decided that as assistance to manufacturing industry and also as a confidence builder we would restore the investment allowance so on 14th February 1972 we returned to the position that we had been in on 3rd February 1971. That is what we did. That is what the Bill which passed through this House was designed to do. The Bill is still in the Senate. I am very well aware that in relation not only to leasing but also to other areas too there have been claims that those particular industries should be included in the investment allowance area. I must emphasise, however, that what we did on 14th February was to restore the position that existed at the time of suspension. Any representations that may be made from leasing or other areas will be considered at the time of preparation of the Budget. I, of course, give no commitment whatever one way or the other. In relation to leasing I am rather surprised to hear the honourable gentleman refer to both the lessor and lessee. I have never received any representations in relation to the lessee because the lessee would be able to make a deduction. 
I see. Well, the lessee would be able to deduct as a business expense the cost of leasing but the lessor is the person who buys the goods and leases them. It is he who has made representations to me and I will give them consideration. The investment allowance as it exists has always been on the basis of capital expenditure by the manufacturer. That is where the difference lies here and that  is  why it is not covered. The lessor is not the manufacturer, he only leases. I give the honourable gentleman an undertaking that 1 will consider the matter when the provision is being reconsidered. 
Nothing would give me greater pleasure than to reduce taxation. Likewise, nothing would give me greater pleasure than to provide the funds for that wide range of services - public structures, bridges, hospitals and social services - which the Australian public wants. The difficulty about budget making is to ensure that there is a balance between the impost placed on people and the benefits they receive from a budget and that is where the difficulty areas of judgment are. The United Kingdom Budget was designed to 'reflate the economy' and give it growth. The United Kingdom is aiming for a 5 per cent growth in national product. My expectation is that we will exceed a growth rate of over 4 per cent this year so that the United Kingdom aim will be our achievement. Do not let there be any mistake about that. Our unemployment, which causes concern for the position of the individual who is unemployed, has to be seen in the context of a comparison with unemployment in the United Kingdom. Likewise, with inflation, in which area we have not been as successful as I would want, our performance is nevertheless better than that of many other countries. In other words, what we ought to do is to understand the truth and reality of the underlying strength of our economy and our capacity to convert that underlying strength into continued improved performance. 
The Commonwealth has a responsibility for the economic management of the country. In the pursuit of that responsibility it very often assembles a meeting of Premiers and of State Treasurers, who are mainly the Premiers, in the Australian Loan Council. Through the Premiers Conference and the Loan Council there is the management of the indebtedness in Australia of the 3 tiers of government - the Commonwealth, the States and local government. Under our Constitution local governments are specifically created by the State governments. Local government is an instrument of government created by the Constitution within the control and supervision of the States. The Commonwealth consistently has believed that the Constitution should be observed; the States consistently have believed that it should be observed. The States are very jealous of maintaining their role and responsibility for State governments. The Commonwealth for its part has no wish whatever to intrude. The Commonwealth therefore has adopted the policy that we should provide all the moneys that we possibly can to the States. "At the present time the States are asking that the moneys be provided in the form of general grants and not in tied grants and insofar as we are able to do so we are adopting that policy. We therefore provide as much money as we can to the States and the States then take their judgments as to how they will spend it. One of the areas of demand on the States is the local governments. It is for them to press their claims with the States and the States do what they can to relieve the burden. 
There is one exception to this which I think is worth while mentioning. This was the time when we handed over payroll tax to the States. Because the States would have been imposing payroll tax on local government authorities or else forgoing revenue, the Commonwealth took the bill for exempting local government authorities from payroll tax in their non-business activities. Even when there is a drought condition or something of the kind and we make revenues available, we make .that money available to the States for on-lending or on-granting to the local government bodies. I believe that is the way it ought to be. 
I happened to see the programme last night and I asked my office to check because I had a recollection, firstly, of receiving a letter and, secondly, of replying to it. I have looked up the letters. I did receive a letter from  Mr Barton,  written- 
Oh,  no.  Indeed, it  is  honourable members opposite who have the hush questions. Honourable members opposite know very well that their executive emerged from a meeting  in  Adelaide last week proud  of  the fact that they had not made a single decision. The members  of  the executive were frightened - every one  of  them - to face up to their policies. I received a letter from  Mr Barton.  I  re-read it  today. I might say that  it  covered a little over a page and was couched  in  very friendly terms. I received  it  a little after the Budget was presented and shortly before I went overseas. My reply was dated 22nd November. In  it  I explained that I had been overseas, hence the delay. I  do  not know whether  he  received my reply. As the matter has been raised, I will communicate with him about it. As  it  was a letter that was written  to me  personally and as  my  reply was directed to him, I would not like  to  disclose the contents of the letters without his concurrence, although I have  no  reason not  to  disclose the contents of either of them. But I will communicate with him and make sure that he has received a copy  of  my letter. At the time  he  was concerned about maintaining a growth  in  the gross national product, and  he  put  in  context the question  of  inflation with a continued growth in the GNP. We were able to agree, at any event, that the classic remedies for controlling inflation are tar to costly for a country to afford. 
I have seen a Press article about the report; I have not seen the report itself. The Government is greatly aware of the importance of long term finance in the rural sector, and we have the matter under study. My colleague the Minister for Primary Industry has made it clear that the Bureau of Agricultural Economics is conducting a deep study into the whole question of the demand for and the supply of credit for the rural sector. That study is being pressed on with and as soon as the results are received the Government will be in a position to consider the whole "er. including the possibility of establishing a lending authority in the rural area. 
The manner in which this control of purchasing by the Commonwealth - which is after all the biggest purchaser of commodities in Australia - is carried out is through, primarily, the Minister for Supply. He has assisting htm interdepartmental consultation and, following that, consultation among Ministers. It is a matter for the Prime Minister to determine who shall constitute an interdepartmental committee or a committee of the Cabinet. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. This new project is referred to in Social Trends' No. 1, 1970 published by the United Kingdom Government Statistical Service. 
See Above. &lt;4) With regard to a Family (or Household) Expenditure Survey, I have been advised by the Commonwealth Statistician that the Bureau of Census and Statistics completed early in 1971 a feasibility study which showed that successful surveys of household income and expenditure could be carried out in Australia. It also showed, however, that extensive resources would be called for to develop and carry out a full-scale survey, and the Statistician has advised that he can not, without suspending other important projects already entered upon, allocate the skilled resources necessary to proceed with such a survey. The matter will be considered as soon as it appears that the necessary resources could be allocated to the project. 
With regard to a General Household Survey, it appears that the type of information being sought in the Survey in the United Kingdom is similar in a number of respects to that already obtained in Australia by means of the Population Survey. This household sample survey, conducted quarterly by the Bureau of Census and Statistics, supplies regular information about the labour force and from time to time includes supplementary surveys on topics such as child care; education; chronic illnesses; injuries and impairments; journey to work; multiple jobholding; and superannuation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In the interim reply I gave on 9th December 1971 to the honourable member's question, I indicated that it might not be practicable to supply all the information sought but that a detailed investigation was still proceeding. After examination of the information provided by the various Commonwealth departments, the conclusion to emerge is that the information available is not sufficient to enable meaningful estimates to be provided of the costs to the Commonwealth referred to in parts (a), (b), (c) and (d) of the question. In relation to part (e), the available information suggests that the relevant cost in 1970-71, for civil Commonwealth departments, was of the order of $850,000 (including almost $600,000 for the Postmaster-General's Department). That estimate should, however, be treated with reserve because it is subject to some definitional problems, e.g. in regard to sale of vehicles in a damaged condition. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There is no provision in the Excise Tariff for petrol used for particular purposes to be exempted from duty. 
However, the Tariff does provide general exemptions from duties in respect to goods, including petrol, which is the property of the Commonwealth or is owned or intended for the official use of other specified bodies - such as overseas diplomatic missions in Australia. 
Collections of duty on petrol form part of the Commonwealth's general revenues from which its commitments are financed, including expenditure on defence, education, social welfare and assistance to rural industry. In this regard the Commonwealth takes the view that the revenue obtained from the duty on petrol is similar to the revenue collected from other revenue duties such as those on cigarettes, potable spirits and beer. 
It would be extremely difficult to confine any projected concessions specifically to petrol used in farm machinery or indeed by primary producers. The problems in administering such concessions would because of petrol's virtually universal use, certainly be very considerable and no doubt costly. 
Petrol is the most widely used internal combustion engine fuel and if exemptions were granted from the duty applying to it there could be a significant loss of Commonwealth revenue. Loss of revenue from this source could, of course, necessitate the raising of additional revenue from other taxes or reduction in Commonwealth outlays. 
There is a long history of requests to provide partial or total exemption from duties on motor spirit but these have been refused on the ground, in addition to those stated above, that to do so would be to create a precedent which could lead to the erosion of the broad base on which this tax is levied. I view of these considerations the Government has not approved particular exemptions from excise duty on petrol. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
All aspects of natural disaster assistance schemes operating in these countries, including official insurance schemes, are being examined for their relevance to the Australian situation. 
It is true, as the honourable gentleman well recalls - he has asked a number of questions on this matter - that a review has been proceeding within the Treasury, and particularly in the Taxation Office, since 1968. No announcements have been made during the progress of the review because it was thought they would give rise to misunderstandings. Each particular tax matter is interrelated with other tax matters. It is not confined to income tax. It spreads over the entire range of the tax area. I am bound to say that I am concerned that the progress has not been more rapid. At the present time I am making an assessment to see what steps could be taken to make that review more rapid. Perhaps 'rapid' is the wrong word because the review must be thorough, it is technical and so on. But its purpose is that the Government be put in a position to have an overall look at tax policy as soon as possible. The honourable gentleman has mentioned one method that may be available, and that is a public inquiry. That is something to which I am giving consideration. 
I have seen many reports of the speech apparently made yesterday by  Mr Butcher.  It must have been a rather remarkable little speech. It traversed a great number of issues - taxation, overseas investment, financial policy, economic policy and fiscal policy.  Mr Butcher  apparently joined forces with the Australian Labor Party and advocated the dissolution of the Federal system, and he apparently advocated the creation of an economic planning board, which is also Labor policy. All in all, it was a remarkable little speech, almost as remarkable as is Labor Party policy. As to the allegation that the actions of the Commissioner of Taxation or the Taxation Office in any way contributed to the burst of the boom, I point out that  Mr Butcher's  speech, as I saw it reported, emphasised that  Mr Butcher  was speaking personally. Although he is the manager of the Sydney Stock Exchange he felt it possible in some way to separate whatever views he may have - no matter how attractive they are to a headline - from the views of the Sydney Stock Exchange. 
It will be an entirely different matter when I receive representations from the Australian Associated Stock Exchanges through their chairmen - either the  chairman  of the Sydney Stock Exchange, the  chairman  of the Melbourne Stock Exchange or the  chairman  of any other stock exchange - or from the permanent full time  president  of the Associated Stock Exchanges. I remind the House that at the time of the boom  Sir Cecil  Looker, who was then  president  of the Associated Stock Exchanges, continually contemporaneously warned all investors on the stock exchange that the boom would burst. In his words, it was not a matter of if it would burst but when it would burst. The other matter which was raised in the speech yesterday has been raised very many times and that is the operation of section 26a of the Income Tax Assessment Act. That section deals with the manner in which capital income is separated from income which attracts the income tax impost under the Income Tax Assessment Act. That is a matter which I have under examination. I am anxious to make sure that the equities between taxpayers, as well as the fundamental principles, are not disturbed but, at the same time, to see whether it is possible to respond to the very wide range of representations which I have had to see whether certainty could be imported into the provisions of section 26a. 
by leave - Throughout the past year, the basic underlying policy of the Government has been to maintain balanced economic growth, including the provision of employment opportunities for our growing work force, while at the same time braking the upward pressures on costs and prices. In a period of continually changing economic circumstances, this policy has required an appropriate flexibility of policy. 
Honourable members will recall that in my Budget Speech I therefore said that the Government would be keeping the whole situation to which Budget policy was directed under very close review throughout the year. Our purpose in so doing, I said, was to make any adjustments in policy which might prove to be necessary. 
In accordance with this statement we have been taking action, as necessary, to meet changing social and economic circumstances. To recapitulate the highlights, we took action in October and November to increase bank lending and reduce bond rates. In December non-metropolitan employmentcreating grants were introduced and the availability of credit was eased substantially. Prior to the Premiers Conference and Loan Council meeting in February we made substantial further reductions in bond rates and in bank lending and deposit rates. 
At the Premiers Conference itself we settled upon sizeable increases in the works and housing and the semi-governmental borrowing programmes of the States. At the same time we announced the doubling of the grants to the States for the amelioration of non-metropolitan unemployment, special revenue grants to the States, and substantial increases in unemployment and associated benefits. With a view to boosting confidence, the investment allowance on manufacturing plant and equipment, which had been suspended in February 1971, was restored. 
Since those February decisions there have been further reviews of the economy carried out in the Treasury and the Reserve Bank. These reviews were brought to completion 10 days or so ago. After assessment of them the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and I in consultation, and then the Government, have concluded that further measures directed towards our economic management and social objectives are now warranted. 
Before detailing those measures, however, let me briefly sketch in the developing economic situation as the Government sees it. First, let me deal with the increasingly favourable side of the economic scene. I think it fair to say that the whole tenor of public sentiment about the economy has undergone a very marked improvement. This change in mood is pleasing, confirming as it does the continuing soundness and strength of the economy. 
Strengthening confidence reflects, among other things, the objective facts of our economy, which has grown strongly and with only occasional and moderate pauses for over 2 decades. It reflects the improving current economic indicators - for example, the strengthening trend in housing approvals, the more optimistic outlook evidenced recently in the motor vehicle industry, the big export orders secured by the steel industry, the better wool prices recently evident, the general improvement in the rural sector, and so on. 
The Government sees these developments as very encouraging. But we have not been completely satisfied that the developing situation is fully matching up to the possibilities. In particular, we have noted the sluggish trend in consumer spending. Retail sales have been notably weak. After very moderate growth in the 6 months to November 1971 they actually fell, in seasonally adjusted terms, by one per cent in the following 3 months to February 1972. Although revisions may alter the import of these preliminary figures, and although the figures for February have been rather better than their predecessors, there is no doubt that consumer spending has slowed markedly this financial year. The reviews available to the Government have placed some stress on this fact. 
Certainly, the Government considers this trend in consumer spending to be a matter requiring its attention. First, although as we expected unemployment has fallen off fast in absolute terms, we feel that an improvement, in seasonally adjusted terms, is still desirable. Secondly, and as a broad social rather . than narrowly economic consideration, the slowing in consumer spending, at least in real terms, in part reflects the fact that price increases have had adverse effects on the purchasing power of those whose incomes depend on social service payments. Thirdly, there is the question of confidence. 
I said earlier that there has recently been a heartening resurgence of confidence. It is essential that this development be sustained and nurtured. The Prime Minister and I have been considering carefully the far from simple issues of economic management inherent in all this. In doing so we have had in mind that, with consumer sepnding sluggish, there is an obvious problem in terms of whether demand will expand sufficiently, in the period ahead, to sustain that confidence to which I have already referred and upon the maintenance of which the further steady expansion of total demand depends considerably. 
In weighing this demand-supply situation we have had in mind at the same time the fact that the rise in costs and prices is continuing. As I said at the outset, braking the upward pressures on costs and prices is one of the Government's central economic policy objectives. 
The measures I shall shortly propose aim at a moderate increase in demand which we now judge to be within the productive capacity of the economy. They should not, therefore, create strains leading to rising costs. Moreover, the increases in disposable incomes which will follow from them will not add to costs - in contrast to increases in money wages. When the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission brings down its judgment in the national wage case, we shall see whether our hopes of some easing of wage pressures on costs and prices are to be realised. The Commonwealth has, of course, argued before the  Commission  for an outcome which would be consistent with those hopes, but the decision is now in the hands of the Commission. Meanwhile, it becomes every day more necessary to consider the plight of those members of the community who are largely defenceless against the erosion of their real incomes resulting in the main from wage inflation. 
In considering these and other aspects of the matter in relation to what might be done about them now, we have also looked ahead a little towards the financial year ahead of us. It is as yet far too early to be considering in detail what may prove to be the shape of the Budget we shall bring down for 1972-73. It is apparent to us, however, that we will be able to take positive action in the Budget on both the revenue and expenditure sides. Obviously in any Budget a basic problem is reconciliation of priorities. After full examination, in consultation with the Prime Minister, it was concluded that the measures I am shortly to announce would in any event merit the highest priority in the forthcoming Budget context and would certainly not go beyond the range of prudent possibilities. Of course the taking of measures now will reduce the scope available to us in the Budget. What capacity will remain at that time in the policy areas now to be announced remains to be determined. 
In bringing forward now what would otherwise be Budget measures, we have in mind several considerations. First, it will reinforce the recent resurgence of confidence. We want it to strengthen further and we see the measures proposed as being, among other things, a measured response to this end. 
Secondly, the measures proposed will support consumer spending while, at the same time, bear on the complex of social and other considerations I have mentioned earlier. Thirdly, the measures proposed are all measures which, in the normal course, we would have been including in our Budget for 1972-73. The effect of bringing their announcement forward will therefore chiefly be to bring into earlier operation policy decisions which would have been made anyway. It is our considered judgment that, in these particular circumstances, the change in timing for certain measures is feasible and I now outline them. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to give effect to the decision, which has already been announced to the House, to reduce the levy on personal income tax. The cost to revenue of this reduction will be $12m in 1971-72 and $117m in 1972-73. For the reasons explained in my statement earlier tonight it is proposed that the rate of levy on personal income tax be reduced from 5 per cent to 2 per cent. New pay as you earn deductions reflecting the lowering of the levy from now on to 2 per cent are to apply as from the earliest practicable payday. As honourable members will appreciate, the job of printing the deduction scales is a big one, but it has been put under way in order that copies can be distributed quickly. The scales being printed are, in fact, those that applied from 1st October 1970 to 30th September 1971 and many employers will no doubt still have a copy of them available. The Commissioner of Taxation has advised me that it will be in order for employers who have a copy to use it straight away. An announcement will be made when the copies now being printed become available at post offices and Taxation Offices. In assessing incomes for the 1971-72 financial year it is intended to proceed notionally on the basis that the 5 per cent levy applied for three quarters of the year and a levy of 2 per cent for the last quarter. For assessment purposes the one rate rate of levy is to be applied and there will be no division or apportionment of 1971-72 income between quarters. Consequently, the rate of levy to be applied for income year 1971-72 as a whole will be 4 per cent. 
During the current financial year, taxpayers deriving income from sources other than salary or wages are receiving assessments based on the 1970-71 income year in which provisional tax is levied in respect of the 1971-72 income year at the rates declared by Parliament for that year. The rates now in force include the 5 per cent levy and these rates will continue tobe used in assessments that issue before this Bill becomes law. Any overpayment of provisional tax will be adjusted automatically when the provisional tax levied this year is set off against the amount payable in next year's assessment. However, any taxpayer who wishes to have his assessment adjusted in the meantime can make an application to the Taxation Office for variation of provisional tax. He will then need to pay only the reduced amount payable under the new law. If the tax assessed has already been paid, the amount overpaid will be refunded on application to the Taxation Office. While this Bill in effect fixes the levy only for 1971-72, it is the Government's intention that the reduction in the levy will be on-going into 1972-73. As is customary, legislation declaring the 1972-73 rates will be presented during the Budget sittings. A memorandum explaining technical features of the Bill is being made available to honourable members. I commend the Bill to the House. 
The British Government has said that on accession to the European Economic Community it is prepared to consider a gradual and orderly rundown of official sterling balances. How rapid that will be is not yet known. The British Government no doubt is considering that at present. What the British Government has said is that it will consult with all holders of sterling. It has said further that it will do nothing without the approval of the sterling holders. Australia, for its part, is very glad to have this assurance for, after all, we are probably the largest holder of sterling. We have $1.5 billion in official reserves. 1 will be in London next week and I have arranged to meet the Chancellor of the Exchequer. This is one of the matters I will be discussing with him. Also I will be discussing with him the other portion of the question, namely, the effect this may have upon British investment in Australia. 
This matter of the differential between different types of minerals is under examination at the present time. 
The hope that springs eternal in the honourable gentleman's breast will be taken into account. The inquiry will have terms of reference which will make sure that it is a broad inquiry going to the very principles of tax incidence. It will have regard to the equity of tax and to the need that governments must have to raise revenue in order that they can respond to the very reasonable requirements of a community for expenditure in the community on the services it wants. It will advise us in relation to personal income tax, company income tax, and also, of course, indirect tax. We do not contemplate that the inquiry will go into detail unless the inquiry itself chooses to go into detail. Rather, we have in mind that it should be an inquiry of the very highest calibre and that principally it will concern itself with principles, so that the Government can have the full range in front of it. 1 see no reason whatsoever for consultation with the Opposition as to the terms of reference simply because it would not be customary to consult the Opposition, and - a stronger reason - because we will not be holding back at all from the inquiry, in the terms of reference, any measures which it wishes to consider. 
As to the personnel to conduct the inquiry there can be no doubt whatever that they must be the best personnel that can be found. Already I am engaged in consideration of the actual terms of reference so that they do reflect what I have said. Already I have had names suggested to me and there is a great number of them. I would expect that by early May 1 will be able to announce the terms of reference and the personnel. 
In my thinking on the terms of reference for the inquiry I did not have in mind that the inquiry should look specifically at State taxes although I did have in mind that the inquiry would need to take account of the incidence of State taxes in order to put them into context with the incidence of Commonwealth taxes. I do not think that the honourable gentleman would object to that. However, he asks me to carry it a step further, if I understand his question correctly, and that is that, if the States requested it, would I agree - 
Even with their agreement a request has to be made initially. I would not be making a request of the States that they submit their taxation procedures to the inquiry. I would not do so for 2 reasons. The first is perhaps a lesser reason, and that is that I want a result from the inquiry as quickly as I can get it and I do not want to delay the result of the inquiry. That result is not likely within a matter of months nor is it likely within a year and that is why I had to make it clear in my statement the other night that the Government would not regard its hands as tied in relation to tax reform because there was to be this inquiry. We might find it necessary to take action and not to defer taking that action until we had the report of the inquiry. 
I do not want the report delayed and therefore I would not initiate anything that might have that result. Secondly, the raising of taxes by the States is a matter of the constitutional responsibility of the States and I think it would be improper for me to suggest to them that the question of the incidence of their taxes should be incorporated into a public inquiry by the Commonwealth as to the incidence of its taxes. 
I am eager to have the paper presented as soon as possible and to make possible a full ranging discussion by the Parliament and the public so that people may have a full knowledge of the Government's attitude based on fact. It is important for us to have the facts known. The drafting of this paper is going ahead strongly in the Treasury. There has been discussion with the Commonwealth Statistician, the Commissioner of Taxation and the Reserve Bank of Australia. Already the paper is quite large. The intention is that the paper will have 6 chapters and 3 appendices. The 6 chapter headings are likely to be 'Introduction', 'Statistical Information', 'Overseas Investment and the Economy', 'Overseas Ownership and Control of Australian Industries and Resources', 'Overseas Investment and Domestic Economic Management' and Conclusion'. The appendices will be headed Measurement of Overseas Investment in Australia', 'Overseas Investment in Australian Public Authority Securities' and 'Australian Investment Overseas'. The indication I get is that the drafting is going ahead and that I will have an advance draft of the document in the second or third week of May. 
by leave - I wish to inform the House that an agreement with Italy for the avoidance of double taxation of profits from international airline operations was signed in Canberra this morning. Copies of the agreement are being made available to honourable members. The agreement deals only with the taxation of international airline profits and follows, in all material respects, the corresponding agreement with France that was signed on 27th March 1969. The agreement will provide for each country to exempt from its tax income derived by residents of the other country from the operation of aircraft in international traffic. A clause to this general effect is in all of Australia's comprehensive double taxation agreements. Under the agreement with Italy Qantas Airways Ltd will be exempt from Italian income taxes on its profits from international traffic while the Italian airline, Alitalia, will be correspondingly exempt from Australian tax. The agreement will not enter into force until each country has taken the steps necessary to give it the force of law in its territory. Legislation to give the agreement the force of law in Australia will be brought before the House as soon as is practicable. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. The purpose of this Bill is to obtain parliamentary authority for expenditure in the current financial year for which provision was not made in the Appropriation Act (No. 1) 1971-72. The total appropriations sought in this Bill amount to $71,075,000. Although additional appropriations are being sought, actual expenditure will not exceed the amounts included in Appropriation Act (No. 1) 1971-72 by $71,075,000. For a variety of reasons, it is expected that savings of about $28.5m will be available in existing appropriations to offset the additional appropriations now proposed. For reasons associated with parliamentary control over the appropriation of moneys for specified purposes, these savings cannot be utilised as an offset in the sense that the total new appropriations sought can be reduced to a net figure in this Appropriation Bill. Thus I am seeking parliamentary authority for additional expenditure in the divisions, sub-divisions and items set out in the Schedule to the Bill. To the extent that an item of any annual appropriation is unexpended the appropriation lapses at 30th June in accordance with section 36 of the Audit Act 1901-1969. 
For the information of honourable members a separate document has been provided listing the estimated savings in existing annual appropriations. I emphasise that these are estimated savings - it is not intended to present an accurate prediction of the final expenditure under those appropriations, nor is it intended to imply that there will be no savings under other appropriations. The information is provided by way of background to honourable members' consideration of the additional amounts now being sought. The various items included in this Bill can be considered in detail in Committee and I propose at this stage to refer only to some of the major provisions. The additional requirement for departmental salaries is $ 14.6m and provides for increases in salaries arising from arbitration determinations, reclassification of offices and additional staff positions approved earlier in the financial year. The amount needed to meet salary increases resulting from arbitration determinations that have become effective in this financial year is approximately $10m and in accordance with established practice no provision for these was made in the Budget. 
Further appropriations totalling $13.1m are required for departmental administrative expenses, including $1.4m for the Department of Civil Aviation; $1.8m for overseas representation; $1 for rents; $0.8m for the Commonwealth Railways; $1.3m for increased allowances and other benefits for overseas officers of the Papua New Guinea Public Service as a result of the flow-on of salary increases in the Commonwealth Public Service; $0.6m for the Commonwealth Taxation Office; and $0.5m for the Department of Works. The balance is made up of a considerable number of appropriations, each of which is less than $500,000. 
Additional appropriations amounting to $27. 6m required for departmental other services include $0.8m for the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research 
Organisation; S2.4m for Commonwealth scholarships to cover a greater number of awards and an increase in university fees; $1.2m for education services in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory, mainly for increases in teachers salaries; $0.6m is sought for payment to the Aboriginal Advancement Trust Account for the acquisition of land off reserves - further funds pursuant to the Prime Minister's policy statement of 26th January last will be provided in the Budgets for 1972-73 and subsequent years: $1.5m aid for Pakistan refugees before the establishment of the independent state of Bangladesh; $l.Sm rehabilitation, and relief aid for Bangladesh; Si. 6m for migrant education to cover increased salaries and an expanded programme of activity; $0.7m for various services in the Northern Territory; $1.7m for broadcasting and television services, mainly to meet salary increases; $0.9m for repatriation pharmaceutical services; $8m for ship construction; and $1.8m to meet a rise in the number of grants under the Aged Persons Homes Act. The balance is made up of a number of appropriations each of which is less than $500,000. 
Additional appropriations totalling $ 15.8m are sought for defence services, including about $2.1m for increases in Services pay and allowances arising from the Government's implementation of the Kerr Committee recommendations; and $4.3m for increases in salaries of civilian staff, including the effect of arbitration determinations. However, it is expected that, for various reasons, there will be savings of $ 16.1m in other defence appropriations. 
The Schedules to the Bills have been prepared in a new format designed to show, in each case, where an additional appropriation is sought, the amount appropriated by the Appropriation Act (No. 1) 1971-1972 and the actual expenditure for that item in 1970-71. This comparative information should further assist honourable members in their understanding of the significance of the figures. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the  Bill  be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to obtain parliamentary authority for additional expenditure in 1971-72 amounting to $80.4m on various items relating to capital works and services, payments to or for the States and certain other services. However, savings of about $9.2m are estimated in expenditures under other appropriations in Appropriation Act (No. 2) 1971-72. It is expected, therefore, that the total expenditure will exceed the amount appropriated in Appropriation Act (No. 2) 1971-72 by about $7 1.2m. Of this amount $45 ,8m relates to payments to or for the States. 
When introducing Appropriation Bill (No. 4) 1971-72- that is the Bill I have just introduced - I informed the House that savings expected in amounts appropriated by Appropriation Act (No. 1) 1971-72 had been listed in an information paper for the benefit of honourable members. The information paper likewise contains details of savings expected in amounts appropriated by Appropriation Act (No. 2) 1971-72. I take this opportunity to make this document available to the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean). 
Although additional appropriations of $3 1.3m are sought for capital works and services, it is expected that this amount will be partially offset by savings of about $5. 6m in other similar appropriations in Appropriation Act (No. 2) 1971-72. As I explained in relation to the Appropriation Bill (No. 4), it is not possible to utilise savings under an appropriation to offset additional expenditure in another. Unexpended appropriations, of course, lapse at 30th June. 
Of the $3 1.1m now sought the major requirements are Si. 7m for an additional repayable advance to the Papua New Guinea Administration towards the construction of a township at Arawa; $5m for loans under the War Service Homes Act to meet the increased loan limit and to eliminate delays in meeting applications;  Sim  for loans to co-operative building societies in the Australian Capital Territory (this is offset by a reduction of $lm in advances to the Australian Capital Territory Housing Trust Account);  Sim  for the National Capital Development Commission to cover rise and fall' variations to contracts because of wage increases; $15m for payment to the Post Office Trust Account to meet an expected short fall in postal revenue, increased liability for superannuation payments and additional funds required for expenditure on works to sustain employment in accordance with Government policy. An additional $4.5m is required for buildings and works to meet 'rise and fall' payments under contracts because of wage increases and other items. 
Additional appropriations of $49. lm are sought for payments to or for the States, the main requirements being $27m for non-metropolitan unemployment relief; $ 17.5m for a special loan to New South Wales; and $3.5m for cyclone assistance in Queensland. It is expected that there will be a saving of about $3.3m in other appropriations for payments to or for the States in Appropriation Act (No. 2) 1971-72. 
As in the case of appropriation Bill (No. 4) 1971-72 the form of the schedule to this Bill has been revised to show comparative information which may assist members in their consideration of the amounts sought. 1 commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) 
The answer to the honour able member's question is as follows: 
It is estimated that the total personal taxable income of taxable individuals for the 1971-72 income year will be an amount of the order of $20,000m. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The National Welfare Fund was established on 20 March 1943. 
The purposes of the National Welfare Fund are the making of such payments as are directed by any law of the Commonwealth to be made from the Fund, in relation to health services, unemployment or sickness benefits, family allowances or other welfare or social service. 
(4) (5) and (6) Answers to these questions are given in the following table - 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1 and 2) Income tax statistics have not been compiled in sufficient detail to enable a reliable estimate to be made of the cost of deductions allowed since 1960 under section 78 (1) (a) (xv) of the Income Tax Assessment Act. The available statistics of assessments that included separate information on deductions for gifts relate to all amounts allowed under section 78 (1) (a) and were compiled in respect of taxable individuals for the 1963-64 and 1967-68 income years and taxable and non-taxable companies for the 1962-63, 1965-66 and 1968-69 income years. 
However, based on information from income tax returns for the 1970-71 income year of individuals not subject to provisional tax. it has been estimated that the cost to income tax revenue of deductions allowed or allowable to taxable individuals in assessments for the 1970-71 income year for gifts to approved school building funds and war memorial funds, will be approximately $5.5m. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Donations of $2 and upwards are allowable deductions if made to a public fund established and maintained exclusively for providing money for the acquisition, construction or maintenance of a building used or to be used as a school or college. The building must be used by a government or public authority or by a society or association which is carried on otherwise than for the purpose of profit or gain to the individual members of that society or association. Section 78(l)(a)(xv) of the Income Tax Assessment Act is restricted to funds which are applied exclusively towards the acquisition, construction or maintenance of buildings and does not extend to funds designed to provide assistance for other associated educational projects. 
No. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Statistics of assessments of individual taxpayers are not classified in income ranges that correspond with ten-percentile groups. Accordingly, from the available income tax statistics, it is possible to provide only estimated figures. The estimated rangesof actual income that included each ofthe ten-percentile groups of taxable individuals for the 1953-54 and 1968-69 income years are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth Statistician has advised that final estimates of apparent consumption per capita of tobaccoand cigarettes are compiled for financial years and are not available on a calendar year basis. He has therefore supplied the following two tables showing (1) Apparent Consumption Per Capita of Tobacco and Cigarettes during the financial years 1950-51, 1960-61 and 1970-71, and (2) Change in Apparent Consumption Per Capita of Tobacco and Cigarettes between 1940-41 and 1950-51, between 1950-51 and 1960-61 and between 1960-61 and 1970-71: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. The relevant part of the 1970 White Paper on the Australian Economy said on this point: 
What will be said here about the effect which rising wages have had on prices in recent years is not at al) intended to imply that they have been solely responsible for the -price increases which have occurred. It is not so. A good many other factors have contributed, larger profit margins probably more than most. Also, any tendency foi demand to run to excess quickly reflects itself in the elements making up costs but the directly consequential rises in wages are the symptoms rather than causes of the prevailing inflation.' (Page 12) and further at ally rate, there can be no escaping the conclusion thai strongly rising wages have been contributing to the recent faster rate of price increases and the rapid growth of demand.' (Page 13) 
As the paragraphs quoted above show, the Treasury was concerned with the effects of strongly rising wages, high profit margins and excess demand. 
The Australian Economy 1970 contained the evidence to substantiate this view. 
and (J) I do not hold that wages and salary increase's are the only causes of inflation. My views on this point were expressed in my Ministerial statement of 24th February, as follows:  . . . while there are other factors also operating, it is incontrovertible that the mainspring of our present inflationary problem is the continuing excessive rise in wage and salary costs'. 
Other factors which appear to have intensified the current inflationary problem include the lagged effects of the previous excess demand situation, differing price movements for goods and services traded on our overseas current account, industrial unrest and, of course, non-economic factors - such as those summed up in the term inflationary psychology'. 
With respect to increases in indirect taxes and charges, I said at the time of release of the December Quarter Consumer Price Index thai the bulk of them was essentially a response to increased wage costs which had to be met by the authorities and business instrumentalities concerned. 
As to the abolition of incentives, I assume the question refers to the suspension, in February 1971, of the investment allowance on plant and equipment used in manufacturing. At that time, private investment in non-farm plant and equipment was rising very rapidly and in those circumstances it was thought inappropriate to continue the incentive. The rate of increase in private investment has subsequently eased. The government recently decided to restore the investment allowance, the view having been strongly put to us that this was a measure most likely to boost confidence and activity in the manufacturing industries. 
The results of a Survey of Weekly Earnings of adult male employees which was conducted by the Commonwealth Statistician during May 1971. are relevant to the honourable member's question. 
The results are representative of 2,213,000 fulltime adult male employees whose normal hours of work are 30 or more a week and who were paid for their full normal hours of work during the survey period. 
The estimated proportion of these full-time adult male employees who earned less than the average weekly total earnings (as estimated in this Survey) in the pay-period which included 12th May 1971. is set out in the table below. The estimates are based on the assumption that, for the total weekly earnings group in which the average weekly total earnings figure falk, employees are evenly distributed (consideration being given separately to managerial, etc., staff and to all other full-time adult males). 
The survey excluded employees of private employers not subject to pay-roll tax; employees in rural industry and private domestic service- employees of religious, benevolent and other similar organisations exempt from pay-roll tax; and waterside workers employed on a casual basis. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Information was prepared by my Department on the costs of some election proposals put forward by the Australian Labor Party at the elections mentioned. 
I am informed that information of the type requested by the honourable member was not prepared within my Department and is therefore not available. 
The  answer to the honour able member's question is as follows: 
It has been decided that Australia should not make any contribution to the United Nations Fund for Population Activities at the present time. 
Bearing in mind the competing demands made on the resources available for aid, the Government decided to give priority to responding to requests for development assistance in other fields. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth is not holding any funds in reserve for the establishment of a national superannuation fund. 
In answer to the first part of the question, I hope that the terms of reference will be ready to be announced within the next few days. The second part of the honourable member's question referred to the personnel of the committee. A longer time will elapse before this is decided because it will be necessary to ascertain from the people whom we would like to serve on the committee whether they are able to serve, bearing in mind that the inquiry will extend over a lengthy period. 
The Cabinet submitted the question of exchange rates to examination last December. This followed on the Smithsonian Institute's examination of the currencies of the Group of Ten when they made their own arrangement. It then followed for other countries to take their decisions, having regard to what happened at the Smithsonian Institute and also fundamentally acknowledging that the decisions as to the exchange rate is a matter for a country itself to determine. I will not go beyond that. I acknowledge that the reserves we have at present are very high, and the reasons for that would take some time for the telling. Question time is not appropriate for it. However, this other point must be made that any official, whether he be political or whether he be a member of the Public Service, who discusses the matter of the exchange rate is likely to find that the mere discussion of it creates speculation which would be counter-productive to the country's economy. 
I have no recollection of the particular paragraph. I will examine it and then reply to the question. 
The insurance industry is more than a mere industry in Australia; it is an institution. It is an institution upon which all members of the public rely. Insurance companies insure against all manner of risks. Mainly, of course, they insure against the consequences of illhealth or death and to look after the interests of widows should this happen. 
by  leave - Over the past 18 months or so Australia has experienced an extraordinarily high rate of capital inflow. This development has attracted considerable interest, and indeed concern, in the community. In December of last year the Government requested the Treasury to put in band a detailed study of the matter. I now inform the House that this task has been completed and I lay on the table for consideration by the House the following paper: 
Commonwealth Treasury Economic Paper No. 1, 
Overseas Investment in Australia. May 1972. 
As both the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and I have previously indicated, this Treasury study should provide an appropriate vehicle for debate of the general question of overseas investment in Australia. Its purpose is to analyse, from the Australian viewpoint, the principal economic issues raised by overseas investment in this country. 
These issues are essentially concerned with the growth and development of the domestic economy - for example, the allocation of available resources, the distribution of income, the degree of competition and other domestic economic management questions of that kind. Naturally, the inflow of foreign capital also has implications : or the balance of payments, but so long as the economy is reasonably well managed these will be less significant. 
The terms of reference of the paper must be emphasised. It does not attempt to assess the non-economic aspects of overseas investment. Moreover, although it inevitably ranges over matters having a bearing on general policy in this field, it does not put forward policy proposals. The paper encompasses many statistics and facts as well as detailed economic argument, and honourable members will wish to give it close consideration and have time to digest it. It would not therefore be appropriate for me now to launch a general debate on the subject. I would however like to outline briefly the main themes which the paper raises. First however it is necessary to understand the international financial background against which the recent high level of capital inflow has occurred. The gradual breakdown of the international monetary system throughout the past decade culminated on 15th August last in the formal termination of convertibility of the United States dollar. Up to that time we had seen a mounting volume of international liquidity as United States dollars flowed outwards to the world as a result of the continuing deficit in the balance of payments of that country. 
Because of these and other associated developments - notably the growth of the Euro-currency markets - many countries have seen large inflows of capital over recent years. Such inflows have taken many forms: direct investment in new industry; takeovers of existing enterprises; portfolio investment in equity shares or other existing financial assets; loans to business enterprises or individuals; and last, but by no means least, speculative movements of capital in one or other of these ways but with an eye chiefly to the possibility of exchange rate changes. 
These developments are important, for 2 reasons: First, they have undoubtedly affected both the attitudes and the expectations which are nowadays brought to any appraisal of the costs and benefits of foreign investment. Secondly, and as part of that, the addition of a major new source of international capital obviously has some implications for any assessment of the 'scarcity value' of such capital. Capital inflow, in whatever form, provides the host country with claims on overseas resources. But these claims can only be made effective if they are actually used in the acquisition of such resources from abroad, currently or in the future. To do so, the current account deficit of the balance of payments must be increased. Pending that, these claims will take the form solely of additions to the country's international reserves. As the Treasury paper says, this point is quite basic. If by means of capital inflow a country is to add to the real resources available to it for accelerating its development, it can do so only by incurring a deficit on the current account. Australia has for some time now sustained a sizeable level of capital inflow. Equally, it has sustained a current account balance of payments deficit which, taking one year with another, has been roughly similar in size. The inflow of capital to Australia has therefore been reflected in broadly equivalent additions of real resources to the economy. 
More recently, this has greatly changed. On the one hand, capital inflow has risen considerably. On the other hand, the current account balance of payments deficit, so far from rising in line with that, has actually diminished appreciably, although this has been due partly to cyclical factors. In short, during the past 2 years or so the acceleration in capital inflow has not been matched by any similar rise in drawings on real resources from abroad. Instead, it has been matched by a rapid and continuing build-up in our international reserves. The recent growth in capital inflow largely reflects an increase in borrowings from abroad. This in turn stems from a conjuncture of circumstances. On the one hand, during the greater part of this period monetary policy within Australia has been 'out of phase' in varying degree with monetary conditions abroad. There have been good reasons, of a domestic economic management kind, for that. On the other hand, financial developments in Australia, particularly the establishment and growing activities of the merchant banks, have led to much greater interest in borrowing possibilities abroad. The particular timing of events has meant that these developments have not, over the period in question, represented a significant impediment to policy. None the less, there are potential dilemmas inherent in the situation. Essentially they concern the degree to which a government's domestic monetary management can be influenced, or even determined, by external factors. 
The degree of actual dilemma will vary over time. There will be situations when the effects of capital inflow will be fully consistent with the stance of monetary policy. There will be situations when the internal and external forces at work are finely balanced and when any conflict between the 2 will therefore be manageable. There will, however, be other situations in which capital movements will run directly counter to the stance of domestic monetary policy and may even necessitate its abandonment. It is these latter 'conflict situations' that raise the dilemma in its sharpest form. This is the first of the major economic questions which capital inflow poses for Australia today. It is, in essence, the problem of reconciling capital inflow with sensible and balanced management of the domestic economy. A second economic problem can arise from capital inflow for a country whose exchange rate is reckoned, rightly or wrongly, to be undervalued. In such circumstances funds will move into the country, motivated to a greater or less degree by hopes of profiting from exchange rate appreciation. Before long it will be being said that because the country is receiving large quantities of foreign capital and its reserves are consequently rising, it necessarily must follow that its exchange rate is undervalued. That is an over-simple view. True, problems associated with disruptive capital flows will be exacerbated if a country's exchange rate does not reflect its fundamental external position. But it is equally clear that an appropriate exchange rate will not remove, though it will reduce, the potential for conflict situations to arise. 
The third possible problem arising out of capital inflow is that of foreign ownership and control. In Australia, the proportionate foreign ownership of Australian companies has risen from around 20 per cent in 1948-49 to, probably, around 35 per cent in 1970-71. From a purely economic viewpoint, and always assuming that the general management of the economy remains, over the years, reasonably sound, such a rise in the ownership ratio need not pose any threat. For one thing, foreignowned companies are subject to the laws of the host country. Unlike the case of Canada, foreign control in Australia has not rested predominantly with a single country. Moreover, the foreign owner's aspirations for his enterprise may coincide in important ways with the national economic interest. Even so, a high and rising degree of foreign control could conflict with national aspirations. One suggested solution to the foreign control question is insistence upon an increased, or a certain minimum level of, local equity participation in enterprises undertaken by foreign interests. However, while increased local equity may constrain the growth of overseas ownership, it may have little impact on overseas control. Whatever the other benefits of increased local equity may be, it is also fair to say that, for reasons which are set out in the Treasury paper, in the process of increasing local equity some of the benefits of overseas investment may be reduced. A particular form of the problem of ownership and control arises in the case of foreign takeovers. This is a complex question and I do not propose at this stage to offer any quick answers to the problems that it poses. One such problem of great importance is whether the takeover will result in the restriction of competition. That, of course, is an aspect common to all takeovers, whether initiated domestically or from abroad. 
The problem of ownership and control is one principally related to the field of direct investment - and. in the matter of ownership, equity portfolio investment. This fact leads to certain other conclusions. Action of any general kind to restrain or reduce the growth of foreign ownership and control will carry implications in a number of fields - introduction of technical know-how, for example - which stem from the nature of direct investment. By the same token, such action is unlikely to have more than a modest bearing on the 2 other problems referred to earlier - domestic economic management and exchange rate speculation, should that exist. Equally, action to reduce the potential for domestic economic management conflict situations to arise might not, depending on its precise nature, have any effects upon foreign ownership and control. The truth is - and these illustrations underline it - that even in a strictly economic calculus, the subject of foreign investment does not readily lend itself to easy generalisations. 
I recognise, of course, that the subject cannot be confined within an economic calculus. It is proper that a Treasury paper on it should be largely so confined. But the question of overseas investment engenders a great body of argument of a non-economic kind. The balance of economic benefits and costs must therefore be weighed against the balance of non-economic benefits and costs. Each can change over time, as can the weighting between them. In the economic field, for example, consider the contention that a net inflow of capital from abroad will usually enable one's economy to grow faster, and one's living standards to increase more rapidly, than they would otherwise. This contention is, I believe, broadly speaking valid. Yet its force clearly diminishes, at the margin, the larger one's economy and the higher one's living standards become. There may be other reasons for changes over time in the weighting to be given to economic and non-economic aspects of this matter. Changing values within a society, by virtue of the changes they may imply for the society's broad objectives, can also play a part. Increasingly today it is being argued that a society achieving a high rate of economic growth as measured by the gross national product statistics is not necessarily a happier or even a materially richer society than one in which those statistics are rising less fast. Increasingly, emphasis is being laid on the social and other aspects of economic change and growth. To the extent that values change in these ways, so too does the basis for assessment of foreign investment also change in some degree. 
Let me now turn to the issues for future consideration. There is no doubt in my own mind that the attitude of Australians towards the unrestricted inflow of foreign capital has, over the years, been undergoing some change. There is nothing surprising, or necessarily objectionable, about that. I have myself indicated on several previous occasions that, however tenable it may have been 10 years ago, what I call the 'startled fawn' approach to foreign capital is no longer appropriate. More and more, too, non-economic considerations of the kind I have mentioned earlier are coming to the fore, and the balance of the discussion is changing as a consequence. It is one thing to recognise these developments. It is another to prescribe for them. 
In my remarks today I have sought only to identify the problems at this stage. They are: Firstly, the present level of inflow and the potential problem that creates for managing the domestic economy, as well as the financial costs to Australia which are involved; secondly, the suggestions of exchange rate speculation to which such inflows can give rise, and the possible consequences of that; and thirdly, the sheer fact of foreign ownership and control of important aspects of our economy. I have no intention today of addressing myself to what, if any, actions might be appropriate to deal with these problems, or with some of them. Whether we should seek to do so. and if so in what way, are matters for calm deliberation. Questions of this importance are not to be settled 'off the cuff'. We have identified the policy issues. Over the period ahead my colleagues and I will be addressing ourselves to them. If decisions are to be taken, they should be taken after careful and informed discussion and in the light of the public debate which I hope this Treasury Economic Paper will now assist in generating. 
Motion (by  Mr Swartz)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Statistics supplied in the attached tables are derived principally from surveys of overseas investment and overseas participation conducted by the Commonwealth Statistician and from information used to compile the Australian National Accounts. Descriptions of the statistics on overseas investment and overseas participation are given in the statistical bulletins: 'Annual Bulletin of 
Overseas Investment 1969-70' (reference No. 5.20); Oversea Participation in Australian Mining Industry 1968' (reference No. 10.42); 'Overseas Participation in Australian Manufacturing Industry 1962-63 and 1966-67, Part I- Overseas Ownership and Part II - Overseas Control" (reference Nos 12.19 and 12.20, respectively). Descriptions of the statistics relating to total investment are set out in the bulletin 'Australian National Accounts - National Income and Expenditure 1969-70' (reference No. 7.1). 
Answers to each of the twelve parts of the question are shown in the accompanying Tables A and B, the item numbers used corresponding where possible to the part numbers of the question, or by way of reference to Treasury Economic Paper No. 1, 'Overseas Investment in Australia', May 1972. Many of the questions relate to fields in which precise statistical information is not available. For this reason, it is necessary to apply some degree of judgment in making use of such statistics as are available. The following answers are provided subject to this general reservation. Brief explanatory notes are given below: 
The annual inflows of (a) private direct overseas investment in companies in Australia, classified as (i) undistributed income and (ii) other direct investment, and of (b) private portfolio investment and institutional loans in companies in Australia for the period 1949-50 to 1970-71 are shown in table 1 on page 5 of Treasury Economic Paper No. 1 'Overseas Investment in Australia'. 
The proportions of total private overseas investment in companies in Australia corresponding to the above three categories are shown in the same table. 
It is not really appropriate to make a comparison between statistical series of overseas investment in Australia and total investment in Australia. The two series measure investment flows of differing natures. Overseas investment in companies in Australia is a measure of the net flow of private financial investment from overseas, which may take the form of acquisition of existing assets and financial claims in addition to the creation of new assets. It also excludes investment by overseas-owned companies from depreciation funds. The national accounting series of total gross investment in Australia, on the other hand, measures the value of physical investment in new real assets only. For what it is worth, however, the ratio of the statistical series of total private overseas investment in companies in Australia to the statistical series of total investment (defined as gross fixed capital expenditure plus the value of physical changes in stocks) is calculated in Item (3). Table A. 
Item (4) of Table A shows the rates of growth of (a) total investment, as defined in (3), and (c) private overseas investment in companies in Australia, for one year over the previous year. Item (4) in Table B shows the percentage growth for the same two categories for the periods 1949-50 to 1959-60, 1959-60 to 1969-70 and 1949-50 to 1969-70. The Statistician does not compile statistics of 'local investment' and, for various statistical and conceptual reasons, including those given in (3) above, it is not valid to define and measure such a concept as the difference between gross capital expenditure and overseas investment. 
The Statistician has compiled statistics on the industrial classification of direct overseas investment in companies in Australia for 1956-57 and subsequent years. An industrial classification of private overseas investment in the' form of portfolio investment and institutional loans is, however, not compiled. There are no statistics of total investment (as defined in (3) above) classified by industry, but statistics of total gross private fixed capital expenditure in respect of individual sectors of industry are available. Item (5) of Table A shows (a) the major industrial classification of direct overseas investment in companies in Australia in the form of (i) undistributed income and (ii) other direct investment for the period 1956-57 to 1969-70 and (b) the annual rates of growth of (i) total direct overseas investment in companies in Australia classified by major industry groups for the period 1957-58 to 1969-70 and (ii) total gross private fixed capital expenditure classified by major industry groups for the period 1949-50 to 1967-68 (the latest year for which such statistics are available). Item (5) in Table B shows the percentage growth in (a) direct overseas investment in companies in Australia classified by major industry groups for the periods 1956-57 to 1959-60, 1959-60 to 1969-70 and 1956-57 to 1969-70, and (b): total gross private fixed capital expenditure classified by major industry groups for the periods 1949-50 to 1959-60, 1959-60 to 1967-68 and 1949-50 to 1967-68. Because statistics of overseas investment by industry relate only to direct overseas investment and exclude investment from depreciation funds, it is not possible to relate the information supplied in answer to questions (2) and (3) to sectors of industry. 
Statistics of overseas control of Australian industry have been compiled only for the mining and manufacturing sectors and only for a limited number of years, namely calendar years 1963 to 1968 for mining and financial years 1962-63 and 1966-67 for manufacturing. Information on the proportion of overseas control, measured in terms of the value of production, is contained in Item (6) of Table B. The definition of overseas control' used for statistical purposes and more detailed information on overseas participation in the mining and manufacturing industries, are given in the publications mentioned above. 
(a) It is not possible to calculate gross profit rates, after tax, for all Australian industry because of the lack of data on the value of total assets employed in industry. 
and (c) No statistics are compiled on gross profit rates, after tax, for those sectors of industry which are locally controlled and overseas-controlled. However, some approximation of the profitability of that section of industry which is overseascontrolled can be obtained by calculating the earning rates of companies which are directly overseas-owned (as defined for statistical purposes). In addition, some indication of the profitability of locally owned companies can be obtained from Reserve Bank sources. The estimates so obtained are deficient in several respects. Moreover, since they are derived from separate sources, they are not directly comparable. The  available  information is presented on pages 31-35 of Treasury Economic Paper No. 1,Overseas Investment in Australia'. (8)For the purpose of this question, gross profit after tax for industry overall  is  measured by total company income after tax as defined in the bulletin 'Australian National Accounts - National Income and Expenditure 1969-70. No statistics are compiled on the gross profits after tax of those sections of industry which are locally and overseas controlled. However, an approximate indication of the gross profits after tax of those sections of industry which are locally and overseas-owned can be obtained by measuring gross profit after tax for overseasowned industry by total company incomeafter tax payable overseas and for locally owned companies by the difference between total company income after tax and total company income after tax payable overseas. Item (8) of . Table A shows the percentage of gross profits after tax retained for (a) all industry, (b) locally owned industry and (c) overseas-owned industry, calculated on the basis of income measurement outlined above. The estimates relating to (b) and (c) are subject to several qualifications. 
Item (9), Table A, shows (a) undistributed income for all industry as a percentage of total investment, as defined in (3) and (b) retained profits of direct investment companies accruing overseas as a percentage of total overseas investment in companies in Australia. For reasons outlined above, corresponding statistics for 'locally controlled' industry cannot validly be derived from these other measures of retained profits. 
Item (10 (a) in Table B shows, for the only periods available, annual rates of growth in the proportion of overseas control in the mining sector for each of the years 1964 to 1968 while the percentage rates of growth over the whole period 1963 to 1968 are shown in Item (10) (b). The percentage rate of growth over the period 1962-63 to 1966-67 in the proportion of overseas ownership of themanufacturing sector is shown in Item 10 (c). 
Item (10) in Table a shows rates of growth in estimated earning rates on direct overseas investment in companies in Australia for one year over the previous year. 
Investment income paid overseas to private investors in Australian companies as a percentage of the net inflow of new private overseas investment is shown in Item (12), Table A. The corresponding percentages for the periods 1949-50 to 1959-60, 1959-60 to 1969-70 and 1949-50 to 1969-70 are shown in Item (12) of Table B. 
The honourable gentleman has asked at least 5 questions. 1 lost count at that number. 
Not on only one hand. Many of the questions asked by the honourable member showed a misunderstanding of the whole basis of capital inflow. The first point is that capital inflow is at an unprecedented high level. If the honourable member had read the White Paper he would have understood the reasons for it, and he would have understood that there is at the present time in the world an extraordinary high level of liquidity and an extraordinary mobility of money, especially in the Eurodollar market. Now there is talk of the development of an Asian dollar market. Because of these circumstances those people who have a command of great amounts of funds channel them from place to place as it suits them. It so happens that many other countries have been, so to speak, attacked at a currency level. So far as the evidence we can gather shows, Australia has not been subjected to such an attack. 
Imove to the next point, the guidelines. Those guidelines were adopted and are operating. The purpose of the guidelines was to maintain as high a level of Australian equity in the totality of Australian enterprises as was possible. The concept was to enable money in Australia to be used for equity investment. However, the result has been not merely the upholding of the level of Australian investment in equity but also the encouragement of people to borrow elsewhere because of a shortness of money in Australia or because the guidelines prevent them from borrowing. All this has contributed to the inflow at a time when a tremendous amount of money was available. The guidelines policy therefore has to be seen in its 2 aspects. I will look at the Hansard report of the honourable member's question and provide him with an answer to the other points. 
The honourable gentleman draws attention to a lack of statistics in 2 senses: One is the coverage and the other is in terms of times. Statistics are available relating to an earlier period. In both cases there is strength in what the honourable gentleman says. I am not satisfied that the statistics are as up to date as they need to be in order to make current judgments. The Government has been doing what it can through the Treasury and the Reserve Bank  -  I may say with the full co-operation of the Treasury, the Reserve Bank and the Commonwealth Statistician - to broaden and bring up to date those statistics. The broadening of statistics is constantly a matter of value judgment as to how much man-effort ought to be put into gathering particular statistics because, although in the end the statistics may be fascinating information, they may not be vital for policy formulation. Therefore, judgments have to be made. For instance, to follow an amount of money that came into the country through the various intermediaries to its end point would be a very big job. It would be easier to measure it from a different direction when it arrived at its destination so to speak. 
The other question concerns the fact that for amounts less than $250,000 there is no need for exchange control regulation. This procedure was adopted at a time when the exchange markets of the world were closed after the Smithsonian agreement. This was the end point of our liberalisation programme which we went ahead with at the time, when from a closed down situation we opened it up. At this stage I see no reason to change that situation. I think it is operating quite properly. As for the proposition that we should police incoming capital in the same way as incoming goods are policed under the customs and excise regulations, I fail to see a direct analogy between the two. Regarding the inflow of capital, policies will be developed by the Government and will be announced when they have been determined. 
There are 2 tongues when the Labor Party speaks on economic measures. 
To that interjection I do not respond, but no doubt it does have reality. The plain fact of the matter is that the Labor Party will choose whatever grounds it can to try to make political capital of economic measures. The Labor Party scarcely ever has any real regard for the national interest in economic measures and it sees them always in political terms only. An example of this is contained in the question asked by the honourable member. What the Labor Premier of Western Australia says is quite different from what Labor spokesmen say in this House. Very often in this House one spokesman will be saying something and others will be saying something different. For instance, in education the honourable member for Bendigo will be saying one thing while other members of his Party are terrified about where he is carrying them. There are a number of other examples on the question of inflation. For instance, the Labor Party never states an attitude to a wages policy. There is a very real reason why it does not do so - because it does not dare. If anyone in the Labor Party were to say that there should be a brake on the increase of wages he would suffer the same fate as the honourable member for Hindmarsh who received a flood of telegrams when he had the temerity at a Federal Executive meeting in Adelaide to suggest that very thing. That was the closest the Labor Party ever came to a policy on wages. So it is with the inflow of capital into Australia. The Labor Party is prepared and anxious to climb on whatever bandwagon it sees going by. The unfortunate thing is that many Labor supporters are on different bandwagons. Sooner or later they will have to pull their policies together. Then perhaps there will be a reconciliation between the views of the Premier of Western Australia and of other Labor spokesmen. 
by "leave - I have recently returned from an overseas visit, the basic purpose of which was to enable me as the Australian Governor for the Asian Development Bank to attend the 5th annual meeting of the Bank which was held in Vienna from 20th to 22nd April 1972. I do not wish to discuss now the deliberations and developments at that annual meeting. Suffice it to say that I assured the Board of Governors in Vienna of Australia's continuing support for the Bank. In pursuance of that assurance a Bill was submitted to the House recently providing for Australia to make an additional subscription to the capital stock of the Bank. This will involve a paid-in contribution of $US25.5m to be paid over 3 years. Honourable members may wish to go further into the work of the Asian Development Bank and Australia's relations with it, when that Bill is debated before the House. What I do wish to do now is to inform the House about the international monetary situation overseas as 1 found it on this occasion and to make some observations on the outlook for the period ahead. 
When I last made a statement to the House on this matter - that was in October 1971 - the world's foreign exchange markets were in a state of great confusion. On 15th August,  President  Nixon had announced the suspension of the convertibility of the United States dollar into gold and other reserve assets. A 10 per cent surcharge on all dutiable imports into the United States was imposed. Certain other measures were announced and one of these, the job development tax credit, had the effect of discriminating against imports into the United States of capital equipment items. This announcement was followed by a period of just over 4 months during which the currencies of most of the major countries floated upwards against the  dollar.  Over those 4 months the air was rife with argument between the major countries. There were differences of view about defence burden-sharing, trade concessions, the removal of the import surcharge and the job development tax credit, and the broader issue of how a currency re-alignment would be achieved, who would make a contribution to that, when and how much. We, in Australia, saw great dangers in a continuation of this state of confusion. Both the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and f urged early reconciliation of these differences on the member countries of the Group of Ten in statements both here and abroad. We believed it was simply not good enough for the rest of the world to have to sit back and wait and see when the protagonists in this struggle would reach an early settlement - and we said so. 
The so-called Smithsonian Agreement reached in Washington on 18th December cut through this impasse. There was agreement between the members of the Group of Ten on a new pattern of exchange rates between themselves, on a 7.9 per cent devaluation of the United States dollar, which also involved an increase in the United States dollar price of gold from $35 to $38 an ounce. The import surcharge was removed together with the related provisions of the job development tax credit. Pending agreement on longerterm monetary reforms, provision was made for 2 per cent margins of fluctuation above and below the new exchange rates. It was also agreed that reform of the international monetary system should be given prompt consideration. The new pattern of exchange rates agreed to included an appreciation over the existing par value of 7.7 per cent for the Japanese yen, 4.6 per cent for the Deutsche mark and 2.8 per cent for the Netherlands guilder and the Belgian franc. Sterling and the French franc kept their par values unchanged. The Smithsonian Agreement restored the foreign exchange markets to some semblance of order. There was increased confidence in the dollar, at least in the period immediately after the agreement. The countries outside the Group of Ten, and that includes Australia, adjusted themselves in various ways to the new pattern of exchange rates. The net result was a significant appreciation in terms of the United States dollar of most of the currencies of the countries with whom the United States traded to any large degree, and that again included Australia. 
The immediate state of euphoria which followed  President  Nixon's announcement of the Smithsonian Agreement wore off rather quickly. Towards the end of January the United States dollar came under heavy selling pressure. There were a number of reasons for this. In the first place, the United States balance of payments deficit measured on an official transactions basis reached the awesome figure of $US29.8 billion in 19 1. But of that total only SUS2.8 billion was to be accounted for by the deficit on current account. Of the remaining $US27 billion the net outflow on long-term capital account has been estimated at around $US6.5 billion. The rest, some SUS20.5 billion, consisted of short-term capital outflow and errors and omissions which probably represented, in one way or another, movements out of United States dollars for speculative or protective reasons. What was hoped was that the Smithsonian Agreement would lead to an immediate and significant return of confidence and reflow of short-term funds back to the United States. This reflow did not occur to any significant extent. That was the first and perhaps most important reason for the renewed doubts about the dollar early this year. A second reason, and also an important one, was that, although the major countries of the world agreed on a new pattern of exchange rates in relation to the dollar on 18th December, there was no agreement as to where the currencies of those countries would open in the market in relation to their par values or central rates. In point of fact, most currencies opened up at the bottom, or thereabouts, of their permissible range of  2i  per cent below or above their central rates. In these circumstances those who were in a position to move back into dollars had nothing to lose, and perhaps a good deal to gain, by delaying that return since the foreign currencies could only move up against the dollar, and with widened margins the possibilities of further gain - up to 4 per cent or so - were quite significant. A third reason was that interest rate differentials at the short end of the market, already in favour of Europe, initially widened further due to a sharp fall in United States rates. This operated as a further factor influencing those who might otherwise have transferred funds back to the United States to defer doing so for the time being since their money was earning rather more where it was. A fourth reason, perhaps of lesser importance, was that doubts arose in some quarters about the permanence of the Smithsonian Agreement because of expected delays in Congress in approval of the gold price legislation. 
The net result of this slump in confidence was some further rise in dollar liabilities overseas - though considerably slowed down - and a continued rise in the official reserves of some of the United States' trading partners, particularly Japan. There was a sharp increase in the price of gold in the international gold markets and there were some signs that those operating in foreign currencies had some further incentive now to move out of dollars in anticipation of increased exchange controls in Europe and Japan against further capital inflow. 
In these circumstances, the currencies cf the major countries began to move up steadily in the market against the dollar and generally passed out of the lower half of their  2i  per cent margin and into the top half. This applied to the Japanese yen, the pound sterling, the Belgian franc, the Netherlands guilder, the French franc, the Deutschmark, and the Swedish kroner. Early in March there was a sharp speculative flurry on the exchanges, with a renewed run into several European currencies. This proved short-lived, partly because of the renewed imposition of a range of exchange controls by many of the major countries whose currencies were threatened. By the end of March, however, these post-Smithsonian Agreement blues appeared to have evaporated, at least for the time being. The financial authorities and the bankers in Europe and Japan are currently taking a more optimistic, certainly a calmer, view of things. And by the beginning of this month the dollar was firming again in the foreign exchanges, and there are some signs that a reflow of short term capital to the United States has emerged. 
The role of the prophet is a thankless one, but looking at the international monetary situation at this point of time, and in the light of the discussions I had while in Europe and Japan, I incline to the view that there is indeed a little more brightness on the horizon than there has been for some time. There are many ifs and buts in the situation. But with application and co-operation the rest of 1972 may show signs of a return to a more stable situation. What justification is there for taking that view? Well, for one thing, those concerned one way and another with international transactions are currently taking a longer term view of the currency realignment. No-one can say whether the pattern of exchange rates which emerged from the Smithsonian Agreement was, or was not, exactly what was required. But it has given the American economy a sizable boost in terms of international competitiveness. 
Depending on how the calculation is carried out, the currencies of 12 major countries have formally appreciated on a weighted average 7.5 per cent on one basis, or 10.5 per cent on another, against the United States dollar. That must give the United States trader a head start over the next year or so. 
Of course it takes time for the effects of these exchange rate adjustments to work themselves out in terms of trade and payments between countries. In the first quarter of this year the United States almost certainly recorded another sizable basic balance of payments deficit, while Japan, in particular, continued in heavy surplus. But the lags involved in adjustment are now more commonly accepted. The effects of the exchange rate changes on the United States balance of payments seem likely, on present evidence, to be supported by trends in the economies of major countries. In particular, price and costs movements in the United States have been in favour of the United States compared with its major trading partners for some time and this, if continued, will further strengthen the competitiveness of the United States. So there could well be some basic improvement in the United States current account position in the period ahead. Meanwhile exchange rate trends within the margins are more likely now to be in favour of the dollar and the speculative reason for deferring a transfer of funds back to the United States has lost its weight. If the basic United States balance of payments begins to show some signs of firmly based recovery in the course of 1972, it is not out of the question thai this could be strongly reinforced by short term flows. Altogether, then, it is certainly possible now to be more hopeful about the outlook for the international monetary situation than was possible 6 months ago. 
But it will not be enough to find our way out of the recent monetary crisis. What has to be done now, and this is recognised in the Smithsonian Agreement, is to establish a monetary system which will facilitate international balance of payments equilibrium and which will be conducive to the continuation of a high level of international trade. What we have said in the past is that we should proceed cautiously in this matter of reforming the monetary system. We have said that we needed first to deal with the current crisis and only then should we consider the question of possible reform. 
What are some of the major issues to be considered? First and foremost we would put the balance of payments adjustment process. Last year a succession of large United States deficits culminated in a $US29.8 billion deficit. Meanwhile other countries equally persistently earned surpluses culminating in a Japanese surplus, for example, of SUS10 billion. The pressures and incentives for countries to maintain reasonable equilibrium in their balance of payments have broken down. In the second place I would put the problem, and it is allied to the first, of international movements of short term, interest sensitive and speculative capital flows. This is not a new phenomenon, but in recent years the flows have reached unprecedented heights. Ironically the problem has been a consequence in part of the development of the post war monetary system. It has been facilitated by the widening convertibility of currencies and by the growing interdependence of international capital markets. It has been partly a by-product of the very vitality of the western world economy and the growth of the multi-national corporation. And. of course, the problem has been intensified in recent times with some break down in confidence in individual currencies. The closest attention will have to be given to this matter in any discussion of future monetary arrangements. 
Then there is the question of exchange rates. The Bretton Woods system has as one objective the replacement of the uncertainties of fluctuating exchange rates by a system of stable rates. There are some who say that the Bretton Wood system, in turn, has led countries to hang on to indefensible rates too long. There is a wide range of opinions on this subject. Australia, for its part, has seen significant trading and financial advantages in stable rates. There has been some support for wider margins and. indeed, the Smithsonian Agreement provides for that on an interim basis. But we have argued that flexibility should not go so far as to derogate from the basic objective of a system of relatively stable parities. 
There is the issue of international liquidity. The Fund devised special drawing rights as a rational approach to the question of maintaining an adequate level of international liquidity. Right now, however, the build up of United States dollar balances in other countries' reserves has meant that the world, if anything, is suffering from a surfeit of international liquidity. Will these dollar balances show early signs of being run down? If not, what is our attitude to be to further issues of special drawing rights in the period ahead? 
Then there is the issue of the desired composition of world reserves and related to that the question of the degree of freedom countries should have in the disposition of their reserves. There are proposals, for example, which are designed to displace foreign exchange balances from official reserve assets and substitute for them further issues of special drawing rights. Australia has historically been a substantial holder of foreign exchange - mainly dollars and sterling - and we would need to be satisfied about the asset we were being offered before we could even begin to consider accepting such a change. 
I have mentioned a number of issues. There are others. They are all issues which will have to be discussed over a period - probably an extended period - before any general agreement is- reached. It would be misguided of us to attempt to take firm positions on such matters now. What we are firm about, however, is that such matters are vital to us and we must be present when they are under discussion. 
While the Smithsonian Agreement of last December laid the basis for the present period of relative calm in the foreign exchanges, it was wrong, we believe, that a restricted group of countries, established originally for quite a different purpose, should have played such a dominant role in settling a new pattern of currency arrangements. We would not wish to see that period of confusion and anxiety between  President  Nixon's statements of 15th August and 18th December repeated. It would be even more wrong if decisions about the basic monetary system of the future should be similarly handled. It is for that reason that 1 spoke in the most forthright terms recently in Europe and Japan on this matter. I said that Australia was determined to insist on its ability and right to participate in the consideration of the important international monetary issues which confront us all, for the international monetary arrangements under which we operate can be of quite critical importance to all Australians - the farmer, the businessman, the trader, the financier and ultimately the man in the street. 
I think it is fair to say that the views I have expressed above are now fairly generally accepted. That is to say, it is commonly agreed that there must be a forum where the future of the monetary system can be discussed among a wider group of countries than those which participated in the Smithsonian Agreement. There is a proposal which has received support in many quarters for a group of 20. This would be based on the existing fund constituencies. It would include representation from developing countries and it has been suggested that it would cover some trade matters as well as finance. Whether such a group will be established and, if so, what its terms of reference would be and how it would be managed and serviced remains to be seen. But I have made it quite clear that if such a group is established, Australia would wish to participate in it. 
I will be returning to Europe at the end of this month - in fact, I will be leaving on Saturday and I will be away for 8 or 9 days - to attend the ministerial council meeting of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. This meeting will be concerned with a number of issues, but most discussion will revolve around matters relating to the working of the international monetary system, to interconnexions between trade and monetary affairs and to the appropriate forum for future negotiations. I will be taking the opportunity to press Australia's viewpoint, and particularly our claim to representation, in future discussion of these vital issues. 
The contribution we can make in such discussions has many sides. For one thing, whereas most countries in the existing Group of Ten are capital exporters, we are a significant importer of long term development capital. With Britain entering the European Common Market, our relations with the enlarged European Economic 
Community will undergo fundamental change and it will be more important to take every opportunity to make our own point of view known to Europe. In pressing our case for inclusion in any wider group I have been fortified by the consideration that Australia is rapidly emerging as one of the more significant of the developed economies in the free world and it has a role to play in discussions on the international monetary system. I am referring here not so much to the fact that in terms of gross national product we probably rank now about eighth among the OECD countries but more particularly that in terms of our trade and financial relations with the outside world we are now a country which is of some significance. By the end of this financial year we will have a level of reserves which will not be too far short of $4 billion. Of course, this build up in our reserves has principally come about through the sharp increase in the rate of capital inflow, but it has also been a consequence of a considerable and relatively unnoticed improvement in our basic trade position. On both counts our position in the world has changed considerably in the past 2 years or so. 
Beyond that Australia is a major exporter of basic raw materials and commodities and as such is bound to have a strong position in the future in a resource hungry world. We are a very important holder of foreign exchange, holding as we do roughly $1 billion in United States dollars and $li billion in sterling. As an industrialised and rapidly developing country in South East Asia we have a unique and important perspective on world trade and financial matters and we intend to make sure that our point of view is heard, whatever forum of discussion may be agreed upon. I present the following paper: 
International Monetary Situation - Ministerial, Statement, 17th May 1972. 
Motion (by  Dr Mackay)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
I move: 
That the  Bit) be now read a second  time. 
In a statement to the House on11th April last, I announced a proposal to vary the operation of section 26(a) of the Income Tax Assessment Act so as to provide greater certainty in the taxation law for people having stock exchange transactions in shares. This Bill is designed to give effect to that proposal. Under the present law, a person who acquires shares or other property with the sole or dominant purpose of reselling at a profit is subject to tax under section 26 (a) on any profit he makes on sale. If the sale of property acquired with this purpose results in a loss, a complementary provision section 52 - authorises the allowance of an income tax deduction for the loss. 
These provisions do not apply if the property is acquired for purposes other than that of profit making. For example, a person who buys a house for his residence or invests in shares principally for the purpose of deriving dividends from them, is not taxable on any capital profit he may make, nor is he allowed a tax deduction for a loss of capital he may suffer when he eventually disposes of the property.In the Government's view the basic principles of the law are sound and should be maintained as a broad general rule. In one area, however, the Government has accepted that there is evidence that the application of the principles has caused some undesirable uncertainty as to the practical operation of the law. 
The area 1 speak of is the acquisition and sale of shares traded on stock exchanges. The Government has thought it desirable to take action to reduce the uncertainty without fundamentally chang ing the principles. It accordingly proposes amendments to the income tax law which will provide a more certain basis for determining the taxability or otherwise of share profits. For this purpose the Bill, in broad terms, provides that profits or losses made by a person on the sale of shares listed on a stock exchange are not to be taken into account for income tax purposes if the person had owned them for a period of at least 18 months before sale, and had not acquired them as an incident of carrying on a business. It is proposed that the new provisions will apply to shares acquired on or after 12th April 1972, the day immediately following my announcement of the Government's intentions. 
Under the proposed amendment persons who are not engaged in a business of share dealing, or whose share transactions are not incidental to their business activities, may be sure that any profit arising on the sale of listed shares that they have held for at least 18 months will not be subject to income tax. As a corollary, losses on the sale of shares they have held for at least this time will not be tax deductible. The amendments will not apply where, on or before lodging his first return after acquiring particular shares, a person has notified the Commissioner of Taxation that the shares were acquired for the purpose of profitmaking by sale. Where such a notification has  been  given in accordance with the existing section 52 of the Assessment Act the present law will have effect regardless of when the shares are eventually sold by the person concerned. The present law will also continue to apply, of course, as regards shares sold within 18 months of acquisition. 
The amendment will apply where persons acquire shares jointly or alone and will have effect whether or not shares are registered in the name of the owner or in the name of a nominee or trustee, provided the beneficial ownership of the shares does not change within 18 months. It will apply also to an interest in shares acquired by a person as an owner in common if he remains the owner of that interest for at least the statutory period. Changes in ownership of shares due to the death or bankruptcy of the owner will, however, be disregarded. 
To meet the case where a person is allotted shares in a new issue by a company, the Bill requires that, for the 18 months exemption to apply, the shares must become listed on a stock exchange within 3 months after he became the owner of them. The amendments proposed by the Bill will apply only where shares are owned by individual persons. The tax situation of companies will therefore remain unchanged. 
The Government has decided on the course of action I have outlined as a means of providing greater certainty in the application of the income tax law to people who, for any of a number of reasons, buy shares which which they may later sell, but who are not engaged in a business of share dealing. The operation of the proposed amendment will be carefully watched and, should experience show that it is tending to lead to the devising of arrangements to avoid or minimise taxation, the Government will have no hesitation in introducing such further amendments as may be thought necessary to prevent systematic income tax avoidance. A memorandum explaining technical features of the Bill is being made available for the information of honourable members. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
I understand that that is the policy adopted by the Australian Labor Party in Launceston and that it binds the Labor Party. I do not know whether the Leader of the Opposition would say that he may ignore the decision reached by the Federal Executive of the Labor Party at its conjunction in Launceston. So far as I am aware  he  has never publicly denied that this decision does bind him, although 
I understand that in private he has indicated that there is no need too take much notice of that policy because if he were Prime Minister- 
I am glad that the Leader of the Opposition denies that he has ever said that in private. Through you,  Mr Speaker,  I now invite him to say in public that he is bound by the Labor Party Platform. 
The silence in itself is very remarkable. The only noise from the Opposition was a chatter of interjections from behind the Leader of the Opposition. However, the Leader of the Opposition has refused to take the opportunity to say that he is bound by Labor Party policy. 
I am glad that the question has been put on the basis of an attack on profit for it does disclose the reality of the differences of the parties. The Australian Labor Party is a socialist Party, and its platform declares it to be a socialist Party. Those people who have authority in the Labor Party - and the honourable gentleman unfortunately, does not have that authority - always try to avoid this issue, and use terms like 'democratic socialism* or some other term in order to put off the issue. The fact remains that it is a socialist Party, whereas the Liberal Party and its coalition partner, the Australian Country Party, believe m free enterprise and the entitlement of people exercising enterprise to receive the benefits of their enterprise. To select any particular company and say that that is representative of the whole area of industry, trade and commerce in Australia is, of course, quite inaccurate in a logical way, but more importantly it discloses a willingness at any time to attack private enterprise; and it needs to be clear that it ls a willingness to attack private enterprise. 

 I turn to the next point of the question: Why do we blame - to quote the words of the honourable gentlemean, or as near as I can to quoting them - the worker? There is no blame on the worker. The Government identifies as the major cause of inflationary pressures excess wage increases, and it says that these are being won by a quite ruthless use of industrial power. When that industrial power is used it leaves a legacy of difficulty for everybody else in the community, except those possessed of industrial power. That is the Government's attitude. We believe that the major cause of inflationary pressures is excess wage increases. We say also that it is very important that business does what it can to absorb all the costs that are forced upon it by increased wages. From business we want better management, better productivity performance, and, where possible, the absorption of those costs. I think that if the honourable member would look at the statistics he would find that the share of the gross national product which is going to wages, incomes and supplements has risen quite noticeably over recent years but that the same could not be said of profits. 
I did not know that the Leader of the Opposition had offered his opinion on the constitutional power to the Launceston conference. The other day a question was asked in relation to insurance and the honourable member for Chifley took a point of order - I think it was the honourable member for Chifley who took the point of order - for the purposes of explaining that Labor Party policy in relation to insurance could not be carried out because there is a constitutional objection. The honourable member for Hindmarsh today says: 'Do you not know that although we adopted this policy at Launceston, for constitutional reasons advised to us by the Leader of the Opposition and by  Senator Murphy  we could not cany out our policy?' What sort of a charade is this that you go through where you adopt a policy which you put in writing to placate one group of the Party and in the meantime you go to the public and say: Take no notice of it because we are not going to do it.'? That is the clear implication that is involved in it. So far as the particular issue that has been raised by the honourable gentleman is concerned, that has nothing to do with what might be called worker participation in plant management. What this has to do with is all boards and government bodies. As far as the constitutional power is concerned, I would like to see the written advice of the Leader of the Opposition on the constitutional issue saying that the Labor Party does not have power mandatorily to require adequate representation of the trade unions in the management of such area as broadcasting and television, insurance and banking in which there is undoubted Commonwealth power to legislate. As to whether the Constitution would prevent it being carried that far, I would like very much to see the written advice of the Leader of the Opposition on that constitutional question. 
by leave - On 11th April 1972 I announced that the Government had decided to institute a full-scale public inquiry into the overall operation of the taxation system. A high level Committee of Inquiry will be appointed to conduct the inquiry. In my statement of 11th April I said that the inquiry would have broad terms of reference and it would be expected to hear evidence on and conduct studies and investigations into the overall operation of the taxation system. The inquiry would, I said, permit a thorough public examination into the taxation system and put the Government in a position to have an overall look at tax policy. In conformity with those aims the Government has drawn up the following terms of reference for the inquiry: 
The functions of the Committee of Inquiry are - 
to examine and inquire into the structure and operation of the present Commonwealth taxation system; 
to formulate proposals for improving the Commonwealth taxation system, either by way of making changes in the present system, abolishing any existing form of taxation or introducing new forms of taxation; and 
to report to the Treasurer of the Commonwealth accordingly. 
The Committee of Inquiry shall in carrying out its functions, do so in the light of the need to ensure  a  flow of revenue sufficient to meet the revenue requirements of the Commonwealth and have regard to - 
The effects of the present Commonwealth taxation system, and of any proposals formulated by the Committee, upon the social economic and business organisation of the community and upon the economic and efficient use of the resources of Australia; and 
The desirability of the Commonwealth taxation system being such that, so far as is practicable, there is  a  fair distribution of the burden of taxation, and revenue is raised by means that are not unduly complex and do not involve the public or the administration in undue difficulty, in convenience or expense. 
For the purposes of these terms of reference, the present Commonwealth taxation system shall be taken to be the system under which the Commonwealth raises revenue by means of the following forms of taxation: income tax; sales  tax;  estate duty; gift duty; duties of excise imposed for the purpose of raising general revenue, and duties of customs that correspond with duties of excise so imposed. 
Consideration is being given to the membership of the Committee of Inquiry. A further announcement will be made when the members have been appointed. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The rates of Commonwealth estate duty payable on the value for duty of an estate of  a  deceased person are the same irrespective of whether or not the estate passes to close relatives. However the law provides for a concession to be granted in favour of estates passing to close relatives by way of specifying higher levels of statutory exemptions for estates passing to other persons. The statutory exemption and any other special exemption are deducted from the 'value of the estate' (i.e., the value remaining after deducting from the gross value of the estate, debts and taxes due at the date of death and probate and succession duties payable under a State Act) to arrive at the 'value of duty' of the estate. 
The statutory exemptions allowable are: 
where the whole of the estate passes to the widow, widower, children or grandchildren of the deceased person - 
for qualifying estates of deceased primary producers  -  $24,000 
for other estates- $20,000  decreasing by $2 for every, $8 by which the value of the estate exceeds $24,000 or $20,000 as the case may be; 
where no part of the estate passes to the abovementioned relatives - 
for qualifying estates of deceased primary producers  -  $12,000 
for other estates- $10,000  decreasing by $2 for every $8 by which the value of the estate exceeds $12,000 or $10,000 as the case may be; and 
where part only of the estate passes to the widow, widower, children or grandchildren of the deceased person - an amount calculated proportionately under (a) and (b) above. 
In addition, a rebate of part of any estate duty attributable to rural property included in the estate of a deceased primary producer may be allowable if the value of the estate (before deducting any statutory exemption) is less than $250,000 and certain conditions are satisfied. 
The amounts of duty payable on estates (other than qualifying estates of decreased primary producers) passing to the widow, widower, children or grandchildren of the deceased person where the values for duty of the estates are the amounts specified in the honourable member's question, are shown below. The schedule below also shows the value of the estate' corresponding to each amount of value for duty specified, and the amount of the statutory exemption allowable on such values of estates passing to close relatives. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Public Service Board has provided the following information: 
Officers of the First Division of the Commonwealth Public Service have received no increase in any of the last three year;., i.e. 1969 to 1971. 
It is the Public Service Board's practice to adjust the salaries of officers and employees of the Commonwealth Service (other than First Division.) in accordance with the decision of tha Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in the annual National Wage Case. In the 1969 National Wage Caac the Commission decided that salaries should be increased on economic grounds by 3 per cent. In the 1970 National Wage Case the increase awarded was 6 per cent on and from the beginning of the first pay period commencing on or after 1st January 1971 
The relevant date of effect in the Commonwealth Public Service was 14th January 1971. 
In addition to those increases resulting from decisions in the National Wage Case, the Second Division officers of the Commonwealth Service received increases of 18 per cent with effect from 22nd September 1969 and approximately IS per cent with effect from 4th November 1971. 
Apart from the application of the National Wage Case decisions mentioned above, the salary levels of Third and Fourth Division Commonwealth Service employees are considered on a group by group basis. The Commonwealth Service salary structure is not a monolithic one but comprises a large number of separate employment groups which are not related for pay purposes. The Board's policy is to review each group separately from time to time and fix rates which are reasonably competitive with the rates paid for comparable staff by other public and private employers. 
The Board's Annual Reports for 1969, 1970 and 1971 in the chapters named 'Rates of Pay' include summaries of the groups which received increases in the relevant years. A complete list of the pay decisions in each year is in each report in the appendix named 'Pay Determinations and Decisions'. 
The following table shows percentage increases in the Consumer Price Index, in Personal Income per Head and in Cross National Product at average 1966-67 Prices per Person at Work for each of the last three years. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As was pointed out in the answer to Question No. 4739 (Hansard, 9th December 1971, page 4620) information is not collected on overseas companies in the detail requested. However, the following information relating to the share issues listed in the answer to Question No. 4739 has been assembled from published sources. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The Commonwealth Statistician has advised that, although a survey of overseas investment in Australia is conducted by the Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics, information is not collected in the detail which you require. 
Statistics on overseas investment are classified by broad industry group on the basis of the major activity of the company in which the overseas funds are intially invested. No attempt is made to classify inflows of investment according to the end use of the capital. Companies which are predominantly engaged in investing in office buildings together with companies engaged in investing in other types of property and in finance (other than insurance and banking) would generally be classified to the industry entitled 'Other finance and property' as shown in the statistical bulletin 'Survey of Overseas Investment' (ref. no. 5.20). However, there may be other companies which invest in office buildings, but which :,re predominantly engaged in other activities and accordingly would be classified to industries other than 'Other finance and property'. Information at present collected would not permit separate identification of such companies. In addition, statistics on overseas investment are collected on in Australia-wide basis and cannot be used to obtain information relating to particular States or cities. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth Statistician has advised that it is not possible at this time to up-date the information on sewerage services in each State capital as provided in answer to earlier questions on this subject. A question was asked about sewerage services and method of sewerage disposal in the 1971 Population Census, but tabulated results of this question will not be available until later next year. As soon as information is available it will be forwarded to the honourable member. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) It is not normal constitutional practice to answer questions on such matters as these. I believe the deliberations and proceedings of any Cabinet Committee ought to be treated as being in the same position as those of the Cabinet itself (see Halsbury's Laws of England, 3rd ed.. volume 7, page 354: Jennings, Cabinet Government, 3rd ed. (1959), page 267: Keith's British Cabinet System, 2nd ed. (1952).. page 123). 
Australian Commission on Advanced Education  (Question No. 5646) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The proposed legislation for the supervision of general insurance companies will not be completed in time for introduction during the present Session. 
This is despite strenuous efforts by all concerned and the taking of some exceptional measures to speed up the work. For example, when it became apparent early this year that Commonwealth drafting resources could not be diverted to the general insurance legislation owing to the pressures on the Office of Parliamentary Counsel for the preparation of other important legislation, an approach was made to the Victorian Government for drafting assistance. The Victorian Government responded readily to the request by making  a  senior draftsman available. 
The length and complexity  of  the drafting is due essentially to the nature of general insurance business. General insurance is not  a  simple homogeneous commercial activity, but one of great variety and flexibility, in which many different types of business organisations, small, medium and large, offer insurance cover against a great variety of risks, including through reinsurance the protection of direct insurers themselves. One of the main problems in preparing the legislation has been to ensure that it embraces equitably all the different types of insurers and their businesses. 
While it is just as disappointing to all those who have been waiting for this legislation as it is to me not to have a completed Bill ready for this Session, considerable progress has been made. 
As I anounced in my statement of 9th December 1971 it is proposed that the transitional arrangements for bringing existing insurers within the scope of the new legislation should apply to insurers legally carrying on insurance business on the date of the statement. This means that those wishing to commence insurance business after 9th December 1971 would come under the full provisions of the legislation when it enters into force and should arrange their affairs with this in mind. The statement should thus have had the effect of discouraging the further entry of small unsound companies into insurance business and seems already to have made  a  contribution towards meeting the problems in the insurance industry which were causing concern. 
Furthermore, the statement has put the industry on notice that the time is approaching when it will have to measure up to minimum solvency standards. It has thus given insurers an opportunity of thinking about the business effects of the introduction of a comprehensive supervisory system and of discussing among themselves some of the general implications. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
When the investment allowance for manufacturing industry was introduced, it was on the basis that the allowance would not extend to the building and construction industry. Although this industry several times made representations to have the allowance extended to it, there was no change in the law on this account up to the time the allowance was suspended in February 1971. The allowance has now been restored on its previously existing basis. 
The decision to restore the allowance was taken on broad economic grounds and, although the building and construction industry made representations to have the coverage of the allowance extended while this legislation was before the Parliament, the legislation has been enacted, as the honourable member will be aware, on the basis originally proposed. 
A committee on which the Master Builders' Federation of Australia is represented is preparing a report to the Government on the levels of plant usage in the building and construction industry and the possible increases in efficiency that might be brought about by the use of additional plant. It is in this context rather than any other that further consideration of the matter by the Government will be undertaken. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I understand that there is at present no Australian equity participation in the project referred to. 
All necessary approvals under the Banking (Foreign Exchange) Regulations in connection with the project were granted by the Reserve Bank. 
I am advised that, when Harris- Daishowa (Aust.) Pty Ltd was established, it was owned as to 51 per cent by Harris Holdings Ltd and as to 49 per cent by Japanese interests. Because of  a  number of difficulties, including rising costs, Harris Holdings Ltd subsequently sold its shareholding in the company to its Japanese partner and another Japanese interest. At the time of the sale Harris Holdings Ltd was understood to be owned as to 49 per cent by Australian interests and as to 51 per cent by American interests. The partners in Harris-Daishowa advised the Department of National Development at the time that the survival of the venture depended upon transfer of sole ownership and control to the Japanese interests. I am advised that HarrisDaishowa has retained its approval to export wood chips on the understanding that the company will again seek Australian equity participation in the venture when capital expansion is taking place to establish a pulp mill. 
Education: Living-away-from-homc Allowance  (Question No. 5372) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In regard to the information sought on the amounts advanced in housing loans by (a) terminating and (b) permanent building societies in each State, the Commonwealth Statistician has advised that details of the activities of permanent and terminating building societies by State are now available for 1969-70. However, the scope of the annual building society collection has been modified since the previous answer was given so that all building societies, including societies which partly or wholly operate on Starr Bowkett principles, are classified as either 'permanent' or terminating'. Figures supplied previously for the years 1963-64 to 1968-69 have been revised to provide a comparable series of statistics on the new basis. Information is not available on that basis for the years prior to 1963-64. Table 1 shows details of loans paid over during the financial years of societies ending in the years shown. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) In view of the wide range of sources of housing finance and the varying influences to which they are subject, it is not possible to generalise as to the extent that increases or reductions in bank interest rates have affected the levels of interest rates paid by home purchasers as a whole. So far as bank finance is concerned, the recent reduction In the maximum overdraft rate is in fact reflecting in the rates charged by trading banks on both new and existing loans to home purchasers (except in respect of existing loans for which interest rates have been fixed for specified periods). The main lending rates of savings banks have not been changed since April 1970 although there have recently been some reductions in respect of housing loans previously attracting rates over 7 per cent per annum. 
The Reserve Bank has informed me that it is not aware of any widespread incidence of practices of the type referred to. Banks do, of course, regularly review with customers the suitability of the type and extent of the financial assistance they provide. Any changes in these arrangements are, however, a matter for the banker and customer to agree on a mutual basis. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am not aware of any promise being given by or on behalf of the Government at the General Elections in 1969 that grants would be made to the States specifically for the particular purposes mentioned by the honourable member. The former  Deputy  Prime Minister did not make any 'promise' on the matter at that time; what he said related to the policy objectives of his party. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth Statistician has advised that the specific information requested is not available from data compiled by the Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics. He has, however, advised that information of some relevance is available, and this is set out below in answer to each part of the question: 
the amount of interest payable overseas by companies in Australia on loans, advances, deposits, debentures, notes, bank overdrafts, mortgages, etc., was $6m in 1960-61 and $106m in 1970-71. Details of the actual amounts of outstanding loans, etc., to which these interest payments relate are not available. For the year 1970-71, $55m interest was payable on direct investment and $51m on portfolio investment and institutional loans. 
and (c) the amounts of 'net earnings' of the private trading banks for 1959-60 and 1969-70 were $155m and $374m respectively. These figures expressed as a percentage of outstandings on loans, advances and bills discounted of the private trading banks in those years are 7 per cent and 9 per cent respectively. Details in respect of the Bank of China, Bank of New Zealand and Banque Nationale de Paris are not included is these figures. 
Net earnings' are defined as 'discount and interest earned, net exchange, commissions and other items (including transfers from contingencies accounts) after deducting interest paid and accrued on deposits, rebate on bills current at balance date, amounts written off assets and losses on realisation of assets and transfers to the credit of contingencies accounts (out of which accounts provisions for all bad and doubtful debts have been made)'. Details of net earnings' were not collected prior to the introduction of the Banking Act 1959. Separate information for trading banks in Australia owned overseas is not available. 
the amounts of 'net earnings' of the Commonwealth Banking Corporation and State banks for 1959-60 and 1969-70 were $78m and $213m respectively and the percentage of net earnings to outstandings on loans, advances and bills discounted of the banks was 8 per cent for both years. 
no information is available. 
and (g) interest receipts of life insurance companies are not collected separately but are included in the item 'net interest, dividends and rents' on returns supplied by life insurance business registered under the Life Insurance Act 1945-1965 and returns supplied voluntarily by the State Government Insurance Offices. The amounts of net interest, dividends and rents received by life insurance offices in 1940, 1950, 1960 and 1970 were $19m, $36m, $92m and $307m respectively. These figures expressed as a percentage of loans outstanding to life insurance offices in those years are 11 per cent, 13 per cent, 11 per cent and 21 per cent respectively. Details in respect of government insurance offices are not available separately. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth Statistician has provided the following table in answer to this part of the honourable member's question. Information for years later than 1968-69 is not available. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
No. A relatively small number of companies, locally financed and operating normal commercial enterprises, have registered to obtain the normal benefits of incorporation and not for taxation avoidance purposes. A smaller number of companies - subsidiaries or branches of large non- 
Island companies - have registered for reasons of commercial convenience rather than tax avoidance. The Commissioner of course applies the provisions of the law to stop in any way possible tax avoidance through Norfolk Island. Also the Government has under consideration some proposals for additional measures in relation to Norfolk Island. 
There is strong evidence that the New Hebrides are emerging as a tax haven. 
For Australian exchange control purposes, Norfolk Island is part of Australia. Accordingly, control is not exercised over the movements of funds to that Island. Transfers of Australian or foreign currency from anywhere in Australia or its Territories to any overseas country are subject to exchange control which is administered on behalf of the Government by the Reserve Bank. Such transfers are permitted only where the purpose of the transfer is in accordance with Government policy. This would include the making of a payment that is genuinely due to an overseas resident, the withdrawal by such a resident of his Australian funds which he has acquired in an acceptable manner, or the making of an investment which is in accord with the policy on investment overseas by Australian residents to which I referred in my statement of 22nd February 1972. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Deductions allowed for education expenses in the assessments of taxable individuals included in the statistics tabulated for the 1968-69 income year (the latest year for which statistics of these deductions are at present available) amounted to approximately $235m. The cost to income tax revenue of allowing these deductions is estimated to be about $70m. 
and (3) Statistics of deductions allowed for education expenses are not classified by type of school or other educational institutions attended by the child or dependent in respect of whom the expenses were incurred. 
The Commonwealth Statistician publishes statistics which classify into a number of categories the numbers of persons attending various educational institutions. Also, numbers of children for whom education expenses were allowed in respect of the 1968-69 income year are shown in 'Taxation Statistics 1969-70', the Supplement to the 49th Report of the Commissioner of Taxation. These statistics may provide a basis from which a broad indication of the numbers of taxpayers claiming deductions for education expenses incurred in respect of children attending 
State schools and (b) independent schools may be derived. However, because of the various factors that influence the cost of allowing deductions to taxpayers who have children attending State schools or independent schools (or both types of schools) and other educational institutions, the statistics would not provide a firm basis for establishing the proportions of the total deductions for education expenses that related to education at (a) State schools and (b) independent schools. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth Statistician has advised - 
The number of insurance companies handling workers' compensation insurance in each State in 1969-70 (the latest year for which information is available for all States) is given below: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
During the year ended 30th June 1971, amounts received by the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund were as follows: 
Total contributions from contributors $18,942,891. 
Net receipts from Consolidated Revenue for the payment of benefits- $16,923,872, 
Net payments from the Fund, after adjusting for repayments of amounts previously paid to members under section 42a of the Defence Forces Retirements Benefits Act 1948-1971, amounted to $27,480,081. 
The balance of the Fund as at 30th June 1971 was $136,323,257. The state of the Fund is determined by actuarial investigation and as at 30th June 1964 was: 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Immediate effects on tax revenue can arise in relation to all forms of income flowing from Australia to the other country concerned in an agreement and from that country to Australia. However, it is not practicable to provide readily a reliable quantitative estimate of those immediate effects. 
As the terms of the honourable member's question imply, double taxation agreements have longer-term effects also- however, these too do not easily lend themselves to the processes of identification and quantification. 
Pre-school Education  (Question No. 5853) 
 The answer to the hon ourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth Statistician has provided figures of expenditure on pre-school education by State authorities for 1970-71 in the following table. Figures for 1969-70 incorporating minor revisions to figures previously supplied (Hansard, 20th August 1971, page 490) are also given in the table. 
The honourable member's attention is drawn to the comments on these figures which accompanied the answer given to him on this subject by my predecessor (Hansard, 12th June 1970, page 3682). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth Statistician has advised that, although surveys of overseas investment are conducted regularly by the Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics, information on overseas investment in the rural industry in Australia is not available in the precise detail requested. However, some relevant information is available and this is set out below in answer to the individual parts of the question: 
Details of the number of overseas owned companies engaged in beef raising and handling activities are not compiled separately. For purposes of overseas investment statistics, companies are classified by broad industry groups on the basis of their major activity only. Even then companies predominantly engaged in beef raising and handling would be classified to one or other of the industry groups 'agriculture, forestry and fishing', 'commerce' or 'transport, storage and communication', depending on whether the company in question is engaged in the breeding, transport or slaughtering aspects of the industry. However, it is not possible from data currently collected in the surveys of overseas investment to separately identify all the companies engaged in these activities. Moreover, the confidentiality provisions of the Census and Statistics Act would preclude the release of the names of individual businesses. 
Information collected in the surveys of overseas investment show that for 1970-71 there were approximately 90 companies with direct overseas investment which were predominantly engaged in the 'agriculture, forestry and fishing' industry. 
No information is available on the gross value of the assets of these companies. 
Details of the total value of overseas capital invested in the above 90 companies are not available. However, the amount of direct investment capital (including undistributed profits) received by these companies from overseas during the 8 years from 1963-64 to 1970-71 was approximately S48m. 
Details of total profits repatriated overseas by these companies are also not available. However, direct investment income (profits and interest) payable overseas by these companies during the period 1963-64 to 1970-71 amounted to minus S3m, indicating that these companies operated at a net loss over this period. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
Not applicable. 
When examining possible changes in the Parliamentary Retiring Allowances Act 1948-1968 appropriate comparative studies, including a study of the relevant provisions of the various State Parliamentary retiring allowances schemes, would be made. 
The structure of the Commonwealth scheme and the principles on which it is based differ from those of the New South Wales scheme. Any proposal to change the Commonwealth scheme to one that was similar to the New South Wales scheme would need careful consideration by the Government and the Parliament. 
I move:  That the Bill be now read a second time. 
In doing so I present the Budget for 1972- 73. 
Our proposals are geared to achieve social and economic goals of significance to all Australians and particularly families. The briefest portrayal of the Budget is as follows: taxes down; pensions up; and growth decisively strengthened. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill contains details of proposed appropriations of the Consolidated Revenue Fund in 1972-73 totalling $861,386,000 for expenditure on the construction of public works and buildings, the acquisition of sites and buildings, advances and loans, items of plant and equipment which are clearly definable as capital expenditure, grants to the States under section 96 of the Constitution and new policies not authorised by special legislation. Included in the above total is an amount of $30m as an Advance to the Treasurer for the purposes set out in the Bill. The proposed expenditures in this Bill were dealt with as appropriate in my Budget Speech. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
I present for the information of honourable members the following papers in connection with the Budget for 1972-73: Estimates of Receipts and Summary of Estimated Expenditure for the year ending 30 June 1973. Commonwealth Payments to or for the States 1972-73. 
National Income and Expenditure 1971-72. Government Securities on Issue at 30 June 1972. 
Commonwealth Income Tax Statistics foi income year 1969-70. Civil Works Programme 1972-73 circulated by the Minister for Works. 
I move: 
That the papers be printed. 
I move: 
That the Bill be  now read  a  second  time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to declare the rates of income tax for the current financial year 1972-73. The Bill will give effect to changes mentioned in my Budget Speech. The Bill's most significant feature is the new personal tax scale which will reduce tax payable by individuals by an average of 10 per cent. The new scale will apply free of any additional levy. It is estimated that, as compared with tax that would be payable if the existing scale and  2i  per cent levy were continued, the new scale will reduce income tax payments in 1972-73 by $380m and by $480m in a full year. 
As I said in my Budget Speech, the interaction of money incomes rising with inflation and the progressive rate scale has led to income taxation becoming too heavy a burden. The low income earner is contributing a proportion of his income in taxation far higher than 10 or IS years ago; the man on average weekly earnings or a little more is finding income taxation looming increasingly larger in his calculations; and the managerial or professional man is facing marginal rates of taxation which on any reasonable criteria are very high indeed. The new scale is designed to give the greatest percentage reductions in taxation at the lower end of the income scale. The tax payable on a taxable income of $2,000 will be reduced by 14.2 per cent. For a taxable income of $4,000 the reduction will be 12.4 per cent. At $10,000 the reduction will be 8 per cent and at $20,000, 6.6 per cent. 
If we are to make the large percentage reductions which we wish to see at the lower and medium income levels, the rate of progression of marginal tax rates would become very steep indeed if the point at which the maximum marginal rate becomes effective were to remain unchanged. That point, which was $32,000 under the scale existing since 1954-55, was altered in the course of the changes made in 1970-71 and is now $20,000. We propose to set a new point of $40,000 at which the new maximum rate of 66 2/3 per cent - that is, the present maximum rate but without the  2i  per cent levy - will apply. These reductions in tax payable also will be fully reflected in tax payable by primary producers subject to the averaging provisions of the law and by taxpayers whose rate of tax is based on a notional income. 
The minimum taxable income for individuals will be raised by the Bill from $417 to $1,041. This new minimum will also apply in assessments of trustees on income of trust estates to which a beneficiary is presently entitled but is under a legal disability. As a consequence of the increase in the minimum taxable income in these cases changes are proposed in the 'shading-in' arrangements which apply to cushion the impact of moving from complete exemption into tax at normal rates. Tax at normal rates will commence to apply on taxable incomes above $1,120 instead of $428 as at present. For taxable incomes between $1,041 and $1,120 the tax payable will be limited to two-thirds of the amount by which the taxable income exceeds $1,040. The change in minimum taxable income, which will free some 600,000 taxpayers from tax, is estimated to reduce personal income tax payments by $14m in 1972-73 and by $18m in a full year. 
The present exemptions granted under the age allowance will remain for eligible people. Because of the reduction in the general rates of tax, however, tax as limited by the age allowance will now 'shade-in' to the general rate scale at $2,202 or, where the married couple provisions apply. $3,871. Schedules of tax instalment deductions to be made by employers from salaries or wages paid to employees are being revised in the light of the proposed reduction in tax rates and the increased minimum taxable income. The new schedules will have effect as from 1st September. Provisional tax payable in respect of the income year ending 30th June 1973 also will be adjusted to take account of the changes proposed by the Bill. 
Apart from the features I have mentioned, the provisions of the Bill have the same practical effect as corresponding legislation for the 1971-72 year. Technical aspects of the Bill are explained in the explanatory memorandum which is being circulated. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
1 move: 
That the Bill be now read a  second  time. 
This Bill has 2 main provisions. One will amend the Income Tax Assessment Act to increase concessional deductions for the maintenance of dependants. The other will provide a deduction for expenses of a taxpayer in obtaining educational qualifications connected with income-producing activities in cases where the expenses are not deductible under the present law. Both measures were foreshadowed in my Budget Speech. 
The amendments to the dependants allowances will mean that the maximum deductions available under the law for the maintenance of a spouse, a parent, a parent-in-law, a housekeeper and a daughter-housekeeper will each be advanced from $312 to $364. Similarly, deductions available for maintenance of a student, an invalid relative and for one child under 16 years of age will each move up from $208 to $260. For other children under 16 the deduction will be increased from $156 to $208. 
I have explained in my Budget Speech that these increases in dependants allowances, together with the reductions in income tax proposed by the Bill I have already introduced, are directed to easing the tax burdens of the family man and the single income family in particular. PAYE deductions from salaries and wages paid from 1st September 1972 will take both changes into account. 
The measure dealing with what have become known as self-education expenses is an important one. Many people spend money on educational courses with a view to obtaining qualifications to .aid them in earning income. This expenditure may not be deductible for income tax purposes because, according to long-standing principles on which the general deduction provisions of the income tax law are based, it is either not incurred in the course of producing income or is private expenditure. 
The Government has decided, however, that a concession should be available for people who set themselves the task of gaining educational qualifications connected with their careers. We therefore propose a special concessional deduction for expenditure incurred by a taxpayer on fees, books and equipment associated with a course of education he undertakes for the purpose of acquiring qualifications related to his employment or career. The new concession will not be subject to any age qualification. It will be available whether a course of education is attended on a full-time or part-time basis or is carried on by correspondence. 
As is the case with the concession now provided to a parent for the education of children, the maximum deduction under the new concession in any income year will be S400. Also in line with the deduction granted to a parent, a deduction will not be allowable for expenses recouped under the Commonwealth scheme for secondary and technical scholarships. 
The new concession will complement the present allowance for education expenses and will be limited to the difference between the amount of $400 and any amount allowable to a parent or other person for the education expenses of the taxpayer. It is proposed that both the deduction for self-education expenses and the increased dependants allowances will be allowable in assessments based on income derived in the 1972-73 income year and subsequent years. 
The provisions of the Bill referring to provisional tax are consequential on the reductions in the general rates of tax and the increase in the minimum taxable income for the 1972-73 financial year proposed by the Income Tax Bill 1972. These provisions will have the effect that the reductions in personal income tax rates and the increased minimum taxable income for individuals will be fully reflected in amounts of provisional tax in respect of the 1972-73 income year. Technical aspects of the Bill are explained in a memorandum circulated to honourable members. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
1 move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The sole purpose of this Bill is to give effect to the proposal announced in the Budget Speech to exempt from sales tax imported works of art. At present works of art produced in Australia are exempt from sales tax.. Exemptions for imported works fall into 2 classes. Those imported for public galleries or museums or otherwise for continuous free public exhibition are exempt. So also are works by Australian artists abroad or, within the terms of the New Zealand/ Australia Free Trade Agreement, by New Zealand artists. Importations by or for private collectors or commercial organisations of works by other than Australian or New Zealand artists are subject to sales tax at 15 per cent. 
The exemption in favour of works by Australian artists was introduced in the early days of sales tax as a measure of assistance to those artists. The Government considers that the development of Australian art is such that original purpose is no longer relevant. Moreover, the tax on imported works acts against the interests of public galleries which rely to a large extent on benefactions from private collectors. 
Works of art are largely exempt from Customs duty and the Government proposes that the sales tax discrimination against imported works should also be removed. The proposed exemption will complement the Customs provisions and will accordingly apply to paintings, drawings, sculptures, engravings and so on that are exempt from Customs duty. Imported paintings, drawings and pastels valued at $50 or less are subject to Customs duty and will remain subject to sales tax. It is customary for sales tax changes to be effective from the day after their introduction into Parliament and it is proposed that the exemption should come into operation tomorrow, 16th August 1972. A memorandum containing a more detailed explanation of the Bill is being circulated to honourable members. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
I present the following paper: 
Statement for the year 1971-72 of Heads of Expenditure and the amounts charged thereto pursuant to section 36a of the Audit Act 1901- 1969 (Advance to the Treasurer). 
Ordered that the statement be taken into consideration in Committee of the whole House at the next sitting. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is  as  follows: 
It is practice for Budget proposals relating to changes in the rates and coverage of sales taxes and excise duties to be kept secret until the presentation of the Budget Speech in the House, and to take effect on the following day. 
If this were not done, and some interval were allowed between the announcement of rate changes and the date of their coming into effect, the result could be, in the case of a rate increase, a loss of part of that revenue which the increase is designed to produce. Users of the goods affected would, presumably, increase their stocks of die goods in anticipation of higher prices following the implementation of the higher rate of tax or duty. 
In the case of a tax rate reduction, the allowance of an interval between announcement of such a change and its effective date of operation could lead users of the goods to delay purchasing, because of the possibility that the reduced rate of taxation would be reflected in lower prices. Any such delay could have possible adverse effects on producers and vendors of the goods. 
Problems of this type do not apply to the same extent in relation to direct taxes - for example, personal income taxes. However, any proposed variations in these taxes in a Budget are not disclosed prior to the introduction of that Budget. 
There has not, to my knowledge, been any instance where a breach of secrecy prior to the tabling of the Budget Speech has been shown to have occurred. 
Public Service Regulations 34 and .35 and section 70 of the Crimes Act deal specifically with the responsibilities of officers in regard to the disclosure of official information. In addition, information about prospective taxation proposals is restricted to those officers who, in view of their responsibilities of functions, need to know of such proposals. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following updates information contained in my reply of 6th May 1971 to Question No. 1736: 
Total deposits with each trading bank  in  Papua New Guinea were as follows: 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Advice received from the Commissioner of Taxation indicates that it is not practicable to make a precise comparison of the manner in which taxation concessions in relation to the maintenance of dependants apply in other countries because of fundamental differences in the various taxing systems. It is the Commissioner's understanding that deductions for the maintenance of dependants under the laws of the three countries named in your question are allowed as follows: 
United States of America 
A deduction is allowable only if the dependant is a United States citizen or resided in the United States, Canada, Mexico, Panama or the Canal Zone at some time during the year of income. 
Canada 
A taxpayer's spouse need not be a resident of Canada to enable the taxpayer to qualify for the married status deduction. Similarly, residence in Canada is not a pre-requisite for the allowance of a deduction in respect of a child, grandchild, brother, sister, or parent or grandparent dependent on the taxpayer by reason of mental oi physical infirmity. However, in respect of a niece, nephew, or an aunt or uncle dependent on the taxpayer by reason of menial or physical infirmity, it is necessary for that person to be resident in Canada. 
There have been some very penetrating discussions between the Reserve Bank and the Treasury so as to ascertain what should be a composite view of principal advisers to me on this matter. I have received this advice and I am considering it at present so that I can formulate papers for submission to the Government for its consideration. After that consideration has been given I will be in a position to make such a statement. I would like to make the point, in relation to the question generally, that when considering the matter it is important to have in mind the difference between what I term the volume question - the sheer volume of the flow - and the destination question - where the money actually goes. In looking at the matter of volume there is a very considerable question as to economic management and the effect on domestic economic management of an inflow of capital. In regard to the question of destination, it is important for people to understand the difference between a control question and an ownership question. Within the ownership or control question are 3 separate areas. One area is what one might call ab initio investment, or new investment in industry or development. . The second is what might be termed the takeover of an existing organisation or enterprise. The third, of course, is portfolio investment which, by definition, almost inevitably means ownership rather than control. That is the range of the area to which I presently am giving consideration. 
I saw the text of a speech made by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports a week or two ago to an audience of, I believe, security analysts. That text was freely made available. Any reader of that speech would be led to the conclusion - as I believe .the audience was led to the conclusion - that all deductions for income tax purposes except family concessions would be taken away by a Labor government. I must say that the audience was left in a state of considerable consternation at the possibility of a Labor government's achieving office. I therefore decided that it would be worth while to find out the average cost to taxpayers of the elimination of the deduction for superannuation or life insurance payments. The cost to a taxpayer on average would be $50  a  year. This deduction, which is referred to in section 82h of the Income Tax Assessment Act, has the very real purpose of encouraging people to make subscriptions or investments in superannuation funds and insurance to guard them against losses through personal accident or death, or alternatively to make provision for the later periods of their lives. This deliberate policy has been pursued by this Government and until now it has never been contradicted in the Australian community that people should have the opportunity to claim deductions when pursuing that course of action. 
The next point that is important to make is that nationalisation of the insurance companies remains a part of the Labor Party's platform. The suggestion of the honourable member for Melbourne Ports is apparently supported by his Leader,  Deputy  Leader, Caucus Executive and the whole Australian Labor Party but with the nationalisation of insurance companies it really would not be necessary for the deduction to be allowed. If this were to happen not only would the ordinary person in the community be seriously affected but also the flow of funds through the insurance companies to the development of resources, thereby improving the standard of living in this country, would be seriously prejudiced. The consequence of examining the honourable member's suggestion is to come to the conclusion that it would be immediately harmful to the whole range of Australian taxpayers and in the long term would be disastrous to the Australian nation. 
by leave - Although it is not the normal practice to . comment on the presentation of the statement of receipts and expenditure I do so on this occasion because I wish to draw the attention of honourable members to certain changes in the form of the statement and to explain their significance. These changes have been made on the advice of my .officers following an in-depth review of the information required to be included in the statement. The changes, which were discussed by Treasury officers with the Joint Committee of Public Accounts, make for a more logical and informative presentation of the statement required to be prepared by the Treasurer under section 50 of the Audit Act 1901- 1969. Honourable members will, as a result, be better informed because of the material now contained in that statement. 
In table No. 5 - Expenditure Classified Under Heads of Appropriation - the heading for each department has been altered to show clearly the funds appropriated to that department under each annual Appropriation Act and the amount, if any, provided from the Advance to the Treasurer. The total actual expenditure has then been deducted from the total funds provided, the resultant figure being the total amount unexpended and which lapsed at 30th June in accordance with section 36 of the Audit Act 1901-1969. 
In section ITI of the statement - dealing with the trust fund - several changes have been made. Table No. 6 lists all heads of trust fund and the trust accounts established under section 62a of the Audit Act. It shows the balance of each account at the beginning of the financial year, the total cash transactions and the closing balance. This year the table lists the accounts in the groupings adopted in 1968-69 following a recommendation of the Joint Committee of Public Accounts. Another important change is to show the balance at 30th June 1972 according to whether that balance is held in cash in the Commonwealth public account or invested. Previously all investments of the trust fund were included in a composite table - table No. 13 in 1970-71- which did not disclose the authority for the investments. This table has been replaced by new tables Nos 7 to 12 inclusive. 
Table No. 7 lists only the investments made by the Treasurer pursuant to section 62b of the Audit Act 1901-1969. Table No. 8 brings together the deposits lodged with the Treasurer under the provisions of the Insurance Act 1932-1966. the Life Insurance Act 1945-1965 and the Australian Capital Territory Trustee Companies Ordinance 1947-1968. Tables Nos 9 and 10 set out details of the cash transactions and the investments of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund and the Superannuation Fund respectively, which are made by the statutory boards under the authority of the relevant legislation. 
Because these Boards must themselves report to the Parliament annually the view is now taken that the presentation of this information should be left to them as soon as they are able to present their reports in the Budget session. It can be expected that tables Nos 9 and 10 will disappear from the Treasurer's statement next year. 
The receipts and payments of these funds flow through the Commonwealth public account because of the integration of accounting arrangements. For this reason, the balances now shown in tables Nos 6, 9 and 10 report cash or uninvested balances of the funds and do not any longer include the invested balances, which of course, appear as assets in the financial statements of the respective Boards. These invested balances do not form part of the Treasurer's accounts and this form of presentation is designed to provide a more precise statement of the position. Tables Nos 11 and 12 similarly show the cash transactions, uninvested balances held in the trust fund and details of the investments of the Ministerial Retiring Allowances Fund and the Parliamentary Retiring  Allowances Fund made under the Parliamentary Retiring Allowances Act 1948- 1968. These tables will continue to be included in the Treasurer's statement as no report is made to Parliament by the controlling trust. 
Omitted from this year's statement are the former tables No. 9, National Welfare Fund, and No. 12, War Service Homes Insurance Account. Information in respect of the National Welfare Fund can be  found in the table published on page 25 of the attachments to my Budget Speech and full details of the war service homes insur- ance account are provided in the report of the Director of war service homes. It is unnecessary duplication, therefore, to continue to include this information in the Treasurer's statement. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I wish to speak to the amendment. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  has moved an amendment which starts with the words: 'That the House condemns the Budget'. There is not the remotest chance of this House condemning the Budget, but by moving the amendment he is trying to deprive the people of Australia of this Budget That is the purpose of the amendment. The people of Australia have welcomed this Budget and they wish to have it. The honourable gentleman has said: 'By all means, let us have an election on this Budget'. I think that is a good suggestion, because I have no doubt whatsoever that the people of Australia do welcome this Budget. 
Tonight the Leader of the Opposition treated us to a performance of little man's rhetoric - cliche and spite throughout. We have had cliche and spite fluttered at us throughout his speech which has been richly laced with distortion. Let me give 3 examples of it. The Leader of the Opposition said that the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  had called upon foreign controlled Interests - I think that is the term he used - to attack the Labor movement. The  Deputy  Prime Minister interjected: Say what I did say'. What the  Deputy  Prime Minister said was that all employers should resist the 35-hour week. If the Leader of the Opposition would cease distorting what other people say and would not distort his Party's policies the people of Australia would be in a better position to judge his Party's policies. To this day the Leader of the Opposition has failed to tell us the Opposition's attitude to a 35- hour week. The Opposition wishes to distort it. 
The honourable member for Hindmarsh has said what he thinks the Opposition's attitude to a 35-hour week is, and that is to give it to certain selected industries. He himself would negate any idea of equity in the work force for he would give it only to some and would deny it to other members of trade unions who are just as anxious to have it, so they say, but I do not believe that they are because the Australian trade unionist is a sound man when not badly led. He is not badly led when he goes to the ballot box. The Government would not have been in office all these years if it had not had the support of trade unionists in Australia. 
The second distortion was for the Leader of the Opposition to say of me that I had advocated a prices justification tribunal. He knows that what I said was that we might have to consider a prices notification system. There is a vast difference between justification and notification. The honourable gentleman with his idea of regulation and controls naturally jumped in a Freudian way to justification instead of to notification. The third distortion was the allegation that this was a rich man's Budget. The Leader of the Opposition used the term 'rich man's Budget' while talking about tax. I would like to remind him, if he has ever read the Budget or examined the Budget papers, that 57 per cent of the tax saved to income earners will go to those people who have $4,800 a year or less, and 75 per cent of it will go to people with $6,400 a year. It is very strange for many people in the community to find, in terms of what the Leader of the Opposition said, that they are rich men because they are getting $6,400 a year. All I can say is that the people of Australia would have to be very careful about the tender care of the Leader of the Opposition. 
The cliches that have poured out from the Leader of the Opposition have been used for 2 very good reasons. The first is that economics is not his strength. Even his tutors have given up. Now they just write the stuff for him to say. The second is the power base. The power base of the Australian Labor Party resides in the trade unions and the trade unions tell the parliamentary Labor Party what policies it can have. The consequence is that the honourable gentleman demonstrates a lack of control over economic concepts simply because, even if he did understand them, he would not be able to trot them out. Over recent times the Leader of the Opposition, apparently deceiving himself into believing that he would serve his own interests better by saying nothing, disappeared from the scene. 
And who marched into the vacuum he had left? The  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, the Vice-President of the Australian Labor Party. I very much regret to say that the  President  of the ACTU with his robust manner has made a political pigmy of the Leader of the Opposition, because he does all the talking on policy issues for the Labor Party. 
The Leader of the Opposition objects to the Budget. The Government parties do not object to the Budget and the people of Australia do not object to the Budget. The people of Australia have never welcomed a budget more warmly than this one and they do not want to be deprived of it. The Australian Financial Review' in a delightful phrase called it a 'combination of political allure and fiscal responsibility'. The Melbourne 'Sun' called it 'a vigorous Budget that steers an intelligent course  between generosity and responsibility'. The 'Australian' called it 'a many-faceted Budget of some sophistication'. The 'Age' called it 'a responsible Budget'. How does the assessment by the Leader of the Opposition line up with these verdicts? He found it really hard to find criticism. That slogan the Labor Party has been trotting around came pretty hard when he found it and said: It's time to talk about the Budget'. It is time to talk about it. That is what we are doing and what we feel ought to happen. 
Unlike the Leader of the Opposition, we are not resorting to generalisations. It has been reliably reported to me, and on the basis of the generalisations he made tonight I could confidently believe it, that he is in favour of motherhood. That is the sort of generalisation to which we were treated tonight, but even that is in limited quantity. He had a catalogue of all the things that ought to be done. Every tram that passed by he jumped on. Every single thing that anybody in the community has ever asked for the Leader of the Opposition said tonight we should do or we should give. He wants to be on the angels' side on every single issue. The catalogue of things he wanted to do was quite boring in the end, even to his own supporters. It is said that we should have growth and development. We have growth and development by this Budget. 
Three per cent, which was a very good performance in international terms, and we will restore it to 5 per cent. That is, of course, basic to the economic purpose of the Budget. As for goals, we have been fostering industry. We have fostered the shipbuilding industry, the rural industries, industrial research and training and the construction of national highways. Of course the Opposition will not agree with what we have done in defence. Not a single word was spoken 'on defence by the Leader of the Opposition. The first and primary duty of any government is the protection of the national interest, and not a single word was spoken about it in the speech on the Budget by the Leader of the Opposition. 
On education, he seems to. have failed completely to notice that there was an increase qf $72m in spending on education. On welfare,., we have a concern for the people. There is idealism in our community - an idealism we try to foster. Let me make this point clear: No matter how highly developed the idealism is in a country, that idealism cannot be translated ' into action without community wealth. There are many countries which have a highly developed idealism but which can achieve little in translating it. We are able to do that. We have as a prime objective the; eradication of poverty, and in heading in that direction we have record spending increases in housing, health, pensions, child care, and repatriation. Generally speaking, it is thought that the Budget increase in the standard rate pension was $1.75; but of course those people paying rent, who are in the poorest circumstances, had an increase of $3.75 because of the doubling of the supplementary allowance. In the case of the married pensioner, whose rate went up to $34.50, those in the poorest circumstances - those paying rent - actually had an increase not of $2.50 but of $6.50. This is a performance of which the Government is duly proud. 
The honourable gentleman talked about an employment pool of 1 00,000. He knows that that is nonsense. He does not expect anybody to believe him. Relying on the honourable member for Hindmarsh, he says that there will be 150,000 to 200,000 unemployed, even with the expected growth rate. Honourable members opposite have a recession syndrome and I fear that they really wish that this would happen. So anxious and so frustrated are they for office that they would wish that sort of recession on the people and try to scare them into that belief. I say now unequivocally that there should not be an acceptance of that fear by the slightest percentage because it has no basis in fact. 
Then I come to income tax. Crocodile tears were shed about income tax. We remember about a quarter of an hour of crocodile tears about income tax. But have a look at the amendment. It contains not a single word about income tax. What did the Leader of the Opposition say? First of all he said that the income tax cut was not great enough. Then he said that it was inequitable. But if it had these faults, why did it not find its way into the amendment? The reason  it  did not find its way into there is that he is rigidly committed to increasing the burden of personal income tax. That is one of the matters that distinguish the Liberal Party, a party committed to free enterprise and the growth of the private sector, from the Opposition socialist party. The Opposition can see no further than the public sector. That is why there is not a single word about income tax in the amendment. 
Not only would the Australian Labor Party increase direct personal income tax, but it would also take away all deductions except the family allowances. What does that mean? The Leader of the Opposition talked about a partnership with insurance companies to develop Australian national projects. What the Opposition would do is nationalise all insurance companies. That is set out in the Labor Party's platform. If the Labor Party takes away that deduction, every life insurance policy holder in Australia, every single contributor to a superannuation fund, every bank clerk, every employee in private enterprise who is contributing to a superannuation scheme and every public servant will find that his personal disposable income will immediately be reduced on average by $50 per annum. That is the sort of attitude that the Labor Party has. This is a stimulatory Budget. It is a Budget which sets forth the proper thing to do at the present time. 
 It is time, as was very clearly pointed out by a cartoonist named Pickering in the 'Canberra Times' on 1st August. He drew a cartoon in which he had the  President  of the ACTU as the bowman, and there standing against a tree was the Leader of the Opposition, and the Leader of the Opposition had said to him by the  President- 
The facts are, of course, that many currency crises have been stimulated by unwise comments by political leaders. The most recent such comment was made by the shadow Chancellor of the Exchequer in Great Britain,  Mr Healey,  on 20th June this year. He said - I do not remember the exact words - that the pound sterling was over-valued. Within a very short period of time a great number of changes started to occur on the markets. The Chancellor of the Exchequer,  Mr Barber,  presented with this problem, argued that there was no need for the movements which were occurring. But those people who are in control of international currency, which has an immense capacity for movement from one country to another, were not affected by what the Chancellor said. Very real pressure was put upon the pound sterling. In due course the British Government found it necessary to float the pound sterling. The pound sterling is today still floating. The British economy has been subjected to very real difficulties as a result of the statement made by the shadow Chancellor of the Exchequer. 
Pursuant to section IS of the. National Debt Sinking Fund Act 1966-67 I present the 49th Annual Report on the operations of the National Debt Commission for the year ended 30th June 1972. I ask for leave to make a short statement. 
For the Information of honourable members I present the text of a letter I have sent tonight to  Senator Georges  in regard to the taxation affairs of Patrick Partners. 
The forms for the new tax schedules were available within 48 hours of the announcement in the Budget. They have been available from post offices. I expect that, in almost every case, the deductions will be able to commence from 1st September, as proposed. I have no doubt that the reduction will stimulate demand. As consumer demand rises, economic consequences will flow through with greater production and greater confidence. I believe that this consumer spending will flow because, after all, the great bulk of the benefit will go to the people with the most need. Fifty-seven per cent of the reduction will go to people with an income under $4,800 a year, 75 per cent will go to people with an income under $6,480 a year and 85 per cent will go to people with an income under $8,000 a year. It will be apparent, therefore, that the people who have the greatest need of extra funds for the purpose of consumer spending will have those extra funds available to them. 
The most extraordinary thing about the Opposition's attitude to the tax rebate, the deductions and the resealing is that the Opposition seems to apply the rule that anybody receiving $90 or more a week is classed as rich. I think that those on the Labor side who are frank should accept the proposition that people receiving more than $90 a week would be more heavily taxed in order to finance the very great expenditures which Labor seems to be promising. It will come as a very great shock and surprise to a great number of Australians to find that they are categorised by the Labor Party as rich because they receive $90 a week. The Opposition has tried to call the Budget a rich man's Budget. The only basis on which it can do this is that it believes that anybody receiving more than $90 a week is rich. 
The Commonwealth Superannuation Fund was established by statute. There are trustees to the Fund; there is a staff that administers it; there is an actuarial investigation and there are reports made to this Parliament. I will pull together the reports that have been made recently. 1 will ask for inquiries to be made of the Superannuation Board as to the honourable member's allegations. I will then provide the facts as elicited to the House for its information. 
By statute the Commissioner of Taxation is an independent officer. I believe that he ought to be an independent officer; and I think that he ought to fear nothing, or hold out hope of favour in the execution of his duties. The Commissioner of Taxation,  Sir Edward  Cain, is a man held in the very highest esteem and regard by all members of this House and by the public generally. I believe the honourable gentleman does not imply anything to the contrary in his question, but I think it is important that it be made clear so that anybody who may have listened in to the question would not have that thought in his mind. 
I have no knowledge of the taxation affairs of the particular people who were named by the senator in the question which he asked in the Senate. I tabled an answer which I wrote on information provided to me by the Commissioner of Taxation. I have been informed by the Commissioner of Taxation not only that he did not have any pressure put on him but also that he did not even have any representations of any kind from the Prime Minister. The important thing which should be made clear here is that in an attempt to do some damage either to the man concerned - the taxpayer - or to the Prime Minister, it inevitably means that there is an attack upon the probity of the Commissioner of Taxation. I can assure honourable members from my knowledge of the Commissioner of Taxation - and I am sure they will acknowledge it - that anybody trying to put pressure on him would get a very sharp riposte. He has had none put on him and he has not had representations from the Prime Minister. 
I have seen reports in the Press. I am unable to say whether they report accurately the honourable member for Riverina. But the reports purporting to emanate from the honourable member for Riverina say that I had discussions with 3 named persons in Vienna about the Australian exchange parity rate. I do not know why these 3 persons were nominated unless it was an attempt to give some semblance of fact to something which is a total fabrication. I had no discussions with the 3 gentlemen or anybody else about the exchange rate of the Australian dollar. The report seemed to associate Australia's wish to become a member of the Group of Ten with an implication that there was some deal whereby we could become a member of the Group of Ten if we did something about our exchange rate. That was the implication. However, I believe that the Group of Ten as a body is unlikely ever again to play a significant role in world economic and financial affairs. It has been overtaken by a proposal for a Group of Twenty. The Group of Twenty will be formulated from those countries which have executive directors on the International Monetary Fund. Australia does have such an executive director. Australia will be given a governor's seat on the Group of Twenty and we will be represented in that way. Indeed, I will be representing Australia myself in September at the first meeting of the Group of Twenty. 
The next thing I should say is that Australia wishes to be a member of Working Party 3 or the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. We are not a member of Working Party 3 and it will be an oddity that we are not because we will be the only member of OECD in the Group of Twenty which is not a member of Working Party 3. Working Party 3 is dealing with the international movement of capital and we wish to be a member of that body. I believe that we are likely soon to become a member of that body. 
I can assure all honourable gentlemen and every person in the country that the question of Australia's exchange rate has never been discussed in relation to the pursuit of our membership of Working Party 3. Therefore there is absolutely no foundation whatsoever for the statements reported to be made by the honourable member for Riverina, if he did in fact make them. Another matter referred to in the question is whether I favoured at that time, favour now or will favour at some time in the future an upward revaluation. The fact is that there is great unwisdom in talking about the exchange rate of the Australian dollar. Of course, it is the unwisdom of talking about it which is the matter before the Australian people. I have refused to discuss it. I have distributed no paper at all about the exchange rate. I have no proposal at all before the Government in relation to the exchange rate. The exchange rate of the Australian dollar was fixed in December and that is the exchange rate - full stop. 
by leave - At question time yesterday the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  asked for information related to the investment of the Commonwealth Superannuation Fund. I undertook to make inquiries and inform the House. The questions he asked and answers are as follows: 
Question 
Did the Commonwealth Superannuation Fund advance large loans at low interest rates to the companies of the Sydney land developer Parkes Developments Pty Ltd? 
I ask for leave to make a short statement responding to what the honourable member for Blaxland has said. 
The honourable gentleman is quick to use emotive terms like suppressed'. He seeks information and then he categorises that there has been suppression. Really, he cannot have it both ways. If he wants the information I will provide it for him when I ascertain it. In the meantime, I will be glad if he does not make accusations, the basis for which he is unsure of, but it seems that he is too often willing to do just that. The second point is that the Statistician in the first survey was seeking information which would be available to government for government to assess. My recollection is that he said that it could not be measured against anything that had occured before because it was the first of the survey. He was attempting to find a basis upon which to pursue statistical research. The third point I make is that inherent in the question of the Leader of the Opposition is his belief that the migrants of Austraia have not been able to make the contribution to the development of Australia which we, as a government, claim they have made. I am quite sure that the standard of living we enjoy in Australia today would be nowhere near the level it is had it not been for the flow of migrants into Australia in the past. The fourth point I make is that the Government believes in a big Australia and a developing, growing Australia and we acknowledge the contribution that migrants can make to it. We want to continue with a vigorous immigration programme for the benefit of Australia. My colleague, the Minister for Immigration  (Dr Forbes),  I am glad to say, shares the same sort of views as I had when I held that office, namely, that the Government should do everything possible to put the migrant on the basis of being able to integrate into our community as painlessly as possible. It has to be remembered that when the migrant comes to Australia he understands he is coming to a new environment, an environment to which, in the first instance, he has to adjust. My colleague the Minister for Immigration has put forward in this Budget a programme for migrant integration and social welfare services. The scheme for teaching of the English language I think will be very successful. The programme will enable us to maintain the growth rate that Australia is entitled to have and capable of having. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The latest income tax statistics which provide a basis for making such estimates relate to the 1970-71 income year. Using these statistics, it has been estimated that the loss to Commonwealth revenue from deductions allowed for the maintenance of children under 16 years of age in assessments of taxable individuals for the 1970-71 income year was approximately $l70m. This estimate takes account of the cost of all deductions for maintenance of child dependants under 16 years of age allowed to taxable individuals, not only the cost in respect of children for whom the maximum deductions of $208 and $156 were allowed. 
and (3) Statistics that would enable an accurate estimate to be made of the present cost of the relevant deductions are not available, lt has been considered appropriate, therefore, for the purposes of the comparison sought by the honourable member, to relate the tax saving on the amounts specified to a taxpayer earning the national minimum wage in 1970-71 with the cost of the deductions allowed for that year. The national minimum wage in 1970-71, taken as the 6 State Capital Cities average minimum weekly wage for adult males under awards made by the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, was $42.40 during the period from 1st July 1970 to 31st December 1970 and $46.40 in the second half of the 1970-71 financial year, equivalent to $2,309 for the 1970-71 income year. 
The tax saving in respect of the 1970-71 income year resulting from a deduction of S208 to a taxpayer earning an annual income equivalent to the national minimum wage (assuming that he had no other deductions) amounted to $41.57. The further tax saving to the taxpayer resulting from an additional deduction of $156 amounted to $29.94. Assuming that all taxpayers who were allowed concessional deductions of any amount in respect of dependent children under 16 years of age for the 1970-71 income year had been allowed a standard reduction in tax payable of $41.57 for each first child under 16 years of age and $29.94 for each other child under 16 years of age, the revenue loss would have been approximately $II5m 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Based on income tax statistics of taxable individuals relating to the 1970-71 income year, it has been estimated that the loss to Commonwealth revenue due to concessional deductions allowed in respect of the 1970-71 income year for education expenses was approximately $83m. (2), (3) and (4) See first paragraph of answer to parts (2) and (3) of Question No. 5952. 
For taxable individuals with annual incomes equivalent to the national minimum wage or less in 1970-71 the average concessional deduction allowed for education expenses, in respect of taxpayers who were allowed such deductions, was $115 per taxpayer. 
The tax saving in respect of the 1970-71 income year restilting from a deduction of $115 to a taxpayer earning an annual income equivalent to the national minimum wage (assuming that he had no other deductions) amounted to $22.98. The loss to revenue that would have resulted from allowing taxpayers a standard reduction in tax payable, equal to $22.89 per dependant for whom concessional deductions of any amount for education expenses were allowed, is estimated at S60m for the 1970-71 income year. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows- 
Based on income tax statistics of taxable individuals relating to the 1970-71 income year, it has been estimated that the loss to Commonwealth revenue due to deductions allowed in respct of the 1970-71 income year for. local government, water and sewerage rates on nonincomeproducing property was approximately $74m. 
, (3) and (4) See first paragraph of the answer to parts (2) and (3) of Question No. 5952. 
For taxable individuals with annual incomes equivalent to the national minimum wage or less in 1970-71, the average income tax deduction for local government, water and sewerage rates on non-income-producing property per taxpayer paying such rates was approximately $100. 
The tax saving in respect of the 1970-71 income year resulting from a deduction of $100 allowed to a taxpayer earning an annual income equivalent to the national minimum wage (assuming that he had no other deductions) amounted to $19.98. The loss to revenue that would have resulted from allowing taxpayers a standard reduction in tax payable equal to $19.98 for each taxpayer who was allowed deductions of any amount for such rates is estimated at $43m for the 1970-71 income year. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Based on income tax statistics of taxable individuals relating to the 1970-71 income year, it has been estimated that the loss to Commonwealth revenue due to concessional deductions allowed in. respect of the 1970-71 income year for the maintenance of a wife was approximately $l22m. 
and (3) See first paragraph of the answer to parts (2) and (3) of Question No. 5952. 
The lax saving in respect of the 1970-71 income year resulting from a deduction of $312 to a taxpayer earning an annual income equivalent to the national minimum wage (assuming that he dad no other deductions) amounted to $62.29. Assuming that each taxpayer who was allowed a concessional deduction of any amount in respect of the maintenance of a wife for the 1970-71 income year bars been allowed a. standard reduction in tax payable of $62.29 in respect of bis wife, the revenue loss would have been approximately $104m. 
I am aware of a statement by the Leader of Opposition in which he said that there was a suppression of information. That suppression of information was alleged to be a political direction to the Commonwealth Statistician. I can understand the honourable gentleman playing his politics rough and tough, but I cannot understand him making a deliberate attack upon a senior and independent public servant of impeccable reputation. The basis of the allegation was that in February material had been published about the incidence of unemployment among migrants but that that material had not been published in May. The Leader of Opposition made that a major plank in a quite unfounded allegation of some degree of deception to make unemployment figures look better. The facts are that there had been such a decline in unemployment among migrants between February and May that the Commonwealth Statistician decided that the sample was too small for it to be relied upon as a statistical device. Therefore, the Commonwealth Statistician took his own decision not to publish it. I believe that the allegation made by the honourable gentleman was even worse than the allegations made by  Senator Georges  and the honourable member for Lalor who made a deliberate accusation against the Commissioner of Taxation whose probity is beyond reproach. I believe that the Leader of the Opposition should forthwith make an apology humbly to the Commonwealth Statistician. If he fails to make an apology to the Statistician not only is he worsening an unfounded allegation designed only to harm the Statistician but also he is making what amounts to an attack upon the probity of the entire Commonwealth Public Service, and for that he has no warrant. 
The honourable gentleman said that the Treasurer suppressed the figures. That allegation is a total, unmitigated prevarication and a departure from the truth. 
On your part. 
It is not parliamentary to use the word that is appropriate to describe that statement of the Leader of the Opposition. He well knows it. He has made an allegation against the Commonwealth Statistician. He cannot support it. The allegation against the Commonwealth Statistician is that he has suppressed something which it is his duty to make known if, in his professional judgment, it should be made known. The honourable gentleman's allegation is that the Commonwealth Statistician, for reasons which he has not attempted to state, suppressed this information. When tested on that point, the Leader of the Opposition made a direct allegation that I suppressed the figures. I now say to the House and to the honourable gentleman that he has worsened his position by making that specific allegation. (Honourable members interjecting) - 
I have not given any instructions at all to the Statistician. I was unaware of this matter until after the event - until after the allegation had been made by the Leader of the Opposition. I immediately contacted the Statistician, who expressed to me his strongest hurt and annoyance that such an allegation should be made. That night, I issued a statement which was communicated to the Statistician before it was issued. The Statistician strongly and properly resents any allegation that either he was the tool of suppression or that he did it of his own volition, unrelated to any technical matters relating to his professional competence as the Statistician. That the Leader of the Opposition further worsened the situation by a direct allegation against me just illustrates the calibre of the man. 
What is the relevance of the words obliterated to the allegation? 
The use of Norfolk Island as a tax haven has posed a serious and growing threat to Australian revenue. The Esquire Nominees case alone involved 
SI. 5m. This case was decided in favour of the Commonwealth but it was decided on an issue of fact rather than on an issue of law and therefore is still appellable. In looking for ways to stop the use of Norfolk Island as a tax haven the Government and its advisers bent over backwards in their attempt to minimise any disturbance of the present position of the genuine Island residents, individual or corporate. The simplest and technically cleanest solution would have been to make the Island wholly and unconditionally a part of Australia for income tax purposes. That solution was rejected in deference to the islanders' known political and constitutional views, to obviate complications as regards social welfare benefits and to avoid imposing tax on the islanders in respect of genuine Island source income and foreign source income. The solution which was proposed is, I believe, the right solution. I have made a statement on the matter and it is available to the honourable gentleman. The legislation has not been introduced, but I will be glad to make details available to the honourable member in anticipation of the drafting. 
1 have a document which is dated 4th September from the Bureau of Census and Statistics. 
The Government does not stand by on this issue which has immense ramifications for the wellbeing of this country. Whatever may be said today to be the policy of the Australian Council of Trade Unions or the Australian Labor Party - whichever is chosen for the purpose of the day - the fact remains that the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  who led for the Opposition in this debate, is recorded quite clearly as addressing members of the Vehi cle Builders Employees Federation in these terms: 'The policy of the Labor Party in government would be to make available to the unions all the resources of the Department of Labour and National Service; it would intervene in all cases before arbitration tribunals for the purpose of achieving a 35-hour week in industry'. 
The Government believes that it is not right for a government to stand by and allow the issue to be fought out between powerful unions and the employers. The combination of the powerful unions, of course, usually renders them far more powerful than an individual employer. The Government believes that, wherever it can, it should intervene for the purpose of putting before the tribunal concerned and before the public the public's own interest, because it is the duty of the government to make sure that the public interest is heard in these matters. 
I believe that the key to this issue is responsibility. The Government is determined to act responsibly in this matter and will continue to do so. This statement has been made today so that the issues may be raised with the Australian people. If responsibility is the key to this issue, then it is against that criterion that we can measure the Australian Labor Party policies in the broad, because this is a criterion. The Australian Labor Party has no responsibility whatsoever on this issue. If it has none on this issue, how can the people of Australia put any reliance upon any policies which it may enunciate for the purpose of appealing to people? 
The honourable member for Hindmarsh, who led for the Opposition in this debate today, made a speech which did not do him credit because of the manner in which it was delivered. However, he gave 2 reasons - 2 reasons only - why the 35-hour week should be introduced.  His  reasons were these: Firstly, it would increase job opportunities and, secondly, it would increase the quality of life by leisure. As to the first reason, a method of increasing job opportunities is to enable people to be trained more adequately for the jobs that are available so that they can create  a  greater productivity effort in this country. The individual man, well-trained, does  not  work harder to increase productivity; he works more efficiently by reason of better management. There has been a great reluctance on the part of the trade union movement in the past to share in Increased job opportunities among workers in industry by enabling them to get better training. 
As to the second point made by the honourable gentleman - the increase in the quality of life by leisure - I assure him that there are many ways in which the quality of life is improved other than by leisure. For instance, the quality of life is improved very greatly if there is an increase in income in  Teal  terms and not merely in money terms. There is an increase in quality of life for pensioners if inflation does not erode the increase. There is an increase in the quality of life for the fixed income earner if inflation does not erode the increase. And so one can go through the list of people whose quality of life is improved and who are looking for this improvement. 
There was no mention by the honourable member for Hindmarsh or those members of the Opposition who followed him in this debate of any grand design for Australia's future. There was no mention of the policies which they had been speaking about at every opportunity or of trying to reconcile the achievement of those policies with  the  inflation which a 35-hour week would induce and with the reduction of standards of living which a 35-hour week would induce. Indeed, the honourable member for Hindmarsh, after failing to justify a 35-hour week in any way or putting up any contrary arguments, went to extraordinary lengths to put up a straw doll to knock down. He said that if there were a reversion to a 48-hour week there would be 900,000 unemployed. Has anybody heard that put as a proposition? Only a man with an imagination such as that of the honourable member for Hindmarsh could put forward such a proposition. 
There is economic cost in a 35-hour week. The economic cost would be a reduction in material standards and increased inflation. I believe that Australians understand this when it is explained. Many of them already understand it. That is why so many of them are opposed to a 35-hour week. They are not prepared to suffer decreased material standards and increased inflation for the sake of marginally increased leisure. A threat was implied in what the honourable member for Hindmarsh said today. He talked about 10 weeks annual leave. Is that the next claim to be made by the Australian Labor Party and by the powerful unions? He certainly spent some time talking about it. We cannot be precise as to the costs which would flow from a 35-hour week, but we do know that they would be very great. The average hours worked today are 38.4. To reduce that figure to 35 hours means a 9 per cent reduction. That is not arguable. It is mathematically certain. The cost which would be induced by that reduction would be equal, just to put it in some measure, to all the Government spending this year on social services and repatriation. That would be the cost of a reduction in working hours to that level. If there is this reduction it will mean less production, and as the living standard of a country depends on the goods and services produced and as there will be a 9 per cent reduction in the goods and services produced there will be a 9 per cent reduction in the standard of living of this community. It is as clear as day. Nobody has talked about any reduction in wages, and I certainly do not want to hear of that; but if the 35-hour week came in and wages remained the same it follows that costs would not go down, production would. Costs would remain the same and prices would go up. So there would not only be a reduction in production but also an increase in prices which is the joint cause of inflation and the loss of material standards. 
Imagine the work force of this community having a wage cut of 9 per cent right across the board. How would it react to that? Inflation would occur, production would go down and unit costs and prices would go up. There would no doubt be attempts to maintain production by working overtime, and that sounds a reasonable proposition. But it so happens that if production were maintained by working more overtime, inflationary pressures would be even worse because overtime is a more expensive cost of production than standard rates. The result would be that prices would not go up by 9 per cent or 10 per cent but by 12 per cent or 15 per cent. This would be disastrous at a time when we are battling inflation. We managed to get inflation down from  7  per cent in the 1971 calendar year to 6.1 per cent in the year that ended on 30th June last. Those who would suffer from the inflation are those who are retired, those on fixed incomes and pensioners. Savings, superannuation payments or entitlements and insurance policies yet to mature would be reduced in value. It would be a crippling blow to the people concerned. The powerful unions are trying to advantage themselves at the expense of the community. 
It was said today that my Party represents big business. It does not, as it turns out, because the details of electoral spending are clear. What are my Party's funds compared with the Labor Party's funds. The Labor Party is spending all this money on trying to build a charisma for the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  The Opposition is a party spawned by the Unions and still controlled and owned by the unions. The unions will provide all the money that will be spent on beautifying the Leader of the Opposition. It was said by Opposition speakers that there were no dire effects on the economy when the standard working week was reduced from 44 to 40 hours. I have no complaints about the 40-hour week - do not misunderstand me - but one cannot rewrite 1948 history in 1972. The statistics are there and speak for themselves. In 1948 and 1949 we had inflation of 10 per cent in this country, the worst inflation rate in our history, so do not pretend that reducing the hours of work will not have the same effect now. For a current example of the impact of a reduced working week let us look at the stevedoring industry, which under an agreement signed on 28th April had a reduction in working hours from 40 to 35. Within a week of the signing, port handling charges went up 40 per cent while in February there had already been an increase of 30 per cent to 40 per cent in charges. Increases in port handling charges mean increased prices of goods in every supermarket and small store. In container depots only last week, and within 3 weeks of a decision granting a 35-hour week, container depot charges increased by 15 to 25 per cent. 
The Australian Labor Party says that it has a selective approach. That is an interesting proposition. Is it going to create an aristocracy withing the working class? Is this class warfare? Will it have an aris tocrat in the vehicle building industry and a peasant in the railway industry? Of course the Labor Party does not mean that. It cannot mean it, and it would not get away with it if it did. What it means is that comparative wage justice and conditions will spread and it is unreal and deceptive to talk about a selective approach. The whole idea of the approach is to pick on the areas which can least resist so that it will spread across the entire work force. 
Let us look now at the case of a motor body builder first class who is on a standard award rate of $68 a week. He is in the area of workers who the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  said should have a 35-hour week. He said that if in government the Labor Party would do everything it could to give it to them. If the hours of work of this motor body builder were reduced from 40 to 35 and his overtime increased by 5 hours a week, his award earnings would be about $82 a week. Compare this 20 per cent to 21 per cent increase for that worker with the wage of a fitter and turner in the shipbuilding industry who would work 40 hours a week but would stay on $69 a week. Is there any equity in that? Has the Labor Party any real concern for equity and justice in the work force? 
As a nation we have far to go and we have much to do in areas such as education, health, welfare and the development of human and natural resources. We have pockets of poverty to eliminate and we have the standard of living of this nation to advance continually. On this basis the Liberal-Country Party coalition Government will take every opportunity it can to put the facts before the Australian people and to resist this proposal which can result only in a reduction in standards of living and increased infllation to a crippling degree which will affect the unprotected in the community. We will not resile from that duty; we will pursue it at all times. For if the Opposition has no commitment to the development of this country, the Government most certainly has. 
I have not had the opportunity to see the proposed legislation. I am, therefore, in no position to express a view as to its legality or its constitutionality. I should make this point clear: The Commonwealth Government's attitude is that States should be able to have so much freedom of action as they can exercise which is consistent with their taking action to raise revenues for the purposes of expenditures. On that basis the Commonwealth has made its point clear. The Commonwealth has also made it clear that we cannot, as a Commonwealth, with all the responsibilities we have to provide funds for the States - last year we provided a total of nearly $3.5 billion when everything was added up - have a situation whereby Commonwealth revenue raising is eroded without compensating reductions in its obligations to the States. This question raises matters of very great complexity and therefore one should wait and see how it turns out. I think Tasmania had a real will on its part to see what it could do. I think there was also some understanding on its part, as there must have been, that the Commonwealth provides more funds per capita for the Tasmanian population than it does for any other State. Not only is that a fact but, also, the Tasmanian Government has access to the Grants Commission and for this year Tasmania will receive a payment, if my recollection is correct, of about SI Om from the Commission. The Commonwealth has stood ready at any time to consider any representation made by the State for specific Commonwealth aid. lt will continue to do so. But I am bound to say that we will not do what has apparently been suggested, that is, enter into some sort of deal. The Commonwealth is not in the business of doing deals in an in terrorem situation. 
The decision to impose excise on liquid petroleum gas was a matter which was given the greatest consideration by the Government before it was taken. As I said in the Budget Speech, on the advice that was available to me from Government sources, the emission control standards which were being developed would mean that there would be no greater pollution content in the atmosphere in 4 years, if my recollection is correct. That statement was made in the Budget Speech. There was this examination before. I am not quite sure of the circumstances in which my colleague, the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, uses the term 'impact statement'. I prefer to talk to him about it and to find out what the definition really means. What I can say to the honourable gentleman is that the impact of pollution on the environment by this measure was most carefully weighed against the other side of the equation; that was the potential for the erosion in very great dimensions of the capacity of the Commonwealth, by means of tax revenue, to discharge the very many expenditure requirements upon the Commonwealth. 
A clear difference should be drawn between direct investment and portfolio investment. I know that the honourable gentleman follows that distinction completely. The policy that Australia has been pursuing since the 1920s is that Australia does not permit investment by Australians overseas except direct investment - and there have been no limitations on that - or investment which is likely to increase export earnings and income. That policy has continued over the years. But now a very real question has arisen, that is, whether or not there ought to be a relaxation of the prohibition on Australians investing in the portfolio method in overseas countries. 
There are 2 sides to the question. One is that if Australians are able to invest their funds in portfolios overseas it follows that less equity capital will be available for investment in Australia at a time when we are trying to increase Australian equity, ownership and control of Australian assets and industry. The other side of the question is that it is quite a good proposition so far as our political philosophy is concerned that there should be no artificial barriers to the free movement of money as  a  result of the individual decision and will of an Australian citizen. We must bring these 2 matters into balance, and reach a policy decision as to where true national interests lie. I assure the honourable gentlemen that this matter has occupied my close attention over recent months, reaching a point of very close attention over the last 2 or 3 weeks. 
I can give the undertaking that not only I but also my officers will be doing this. Last week my colleague, the Minister for Primary Industry, and I went to Sydney to see the general managers of all the private banks. The Commonwealth Bank was also represented. We had a long discussion on this matter. The purpose of the discussion was to identify a policy which the Government could adopt in relation to the providing of long term finance in such a way that it would not mean a retreat from that field by the traditional lenders but, on the contrary, would leave it to the traditional lenders to fulfil their traditional duties and obligations whilst the Commonwealth made a contribution which would assist in coalescing and, hopefully, broadening the amount of funds available for long term finance. The essence of the proposition was to allow funds to be made available over a longer term. In the course of our discussions we discussed different possibilities. A meeting is to be held today between representatives of the Department of Primary Industry, the private trading banks and the Treasury. Indeed, one of the First Assistant Secretaries of my Department,  Mr Cameron,  will be chairing that meeting, which I think is going on at the present time. They will be trying to identify the best method which is agreeable to all parties. We will then reach policy decisions. I have no idea at this moment just what form they will take. All we can do is identify the purposes. Having identified the purposes we will then pull the proposition together into a form which meets those purposes and objectives. What the scheme will be called is quite unimportant. The name or description is unimportant. What is important is the achievement of the objectives. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth Statitician advises that the details of the current receipts of all Commonwealth authorities (including the mainland Territories) sought by the honourable member in parts 1 (a) and (e) of his question are given for the years 1967-68 to 1971-72 in Table 1 of the Budget paper 'Public Authority Finance: Commonwealth Authorities, 1971-72', a copy of which has already been supplied to him. Details of the current receipts of Northern Territory and Australian Capital Territory authorities are also given in Tables 22 and 23 of that publication. For details of the estimated current receipts of all 
Commonwealth authorities in 1972-73 the honourable member is referred to Table 8 of the Supplement to the Treasury Information Bull.-tin National Accounting Estimates of Public Authority Receipts and Expenditure', which was also issued as a Budget paper. 
The Statistician further advises that information sought by the honourable member in parts 1 (b), 
and (d) of his question will be included in a new publication of the Bureau of Census and Statistics entitled 'Public Authority Finance: State and Local Authorities, 1971-72' (Ref. No. 5.41) which will provide figures for the years 1967-68 to 1971-72. This publication is to be released early in September and I have asked the Commonwealth Statistician to forward a copy to the honourable member. However the honourable member is asked to note that this publication will not include the separate details he requested for Semi-governmental authorities', nor are such figures otherwise available. Owing to difficulties in arriving at an acceptable definition for general statistical purposes of what constitutes a 'Semigovernmental authority', the Statistician has discontinued compilation of series which purport to relate to this class of organisations. (See my answer to question no. 5546, Hansard, 31st May 1972, page 3431). The transactions of 'Semigovernmental authorities' in each State have therefore been consolidated with the transactions of the 'State government' in each State in order to provide details of the transactions of all 'State authorities' in each State. The tables in the above bulletin which are relevant to parts 1 (b), (c) and 
of the question are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The latest available income tax statistics of numbers  of  returns for the 1970-71 income year lodged by taxable and non-taxable individuals are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
As foreshadowed in my Budget Speech, the Government has introduced legislation to provide an income tax deduction of up to $400 a year for expenditure by a taxpayer on his own education. The new concession will be available where the course of study is related to the taxpayer's income-producing activities and its cost is not deductible under existing law. 
Details of the legislation were outlined in my second reading speech on the Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 4) 1972. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
This request, along with many other proposals seeking amendments of the income tax law, was considered by the Government during the preparation of the Budget. It was decided that reductions in taxation should be effected mainly by re-structuring the income tax scale and increasing concessional deductions for dependants and by way of the other concessions announced in the Budget Speech. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
As announced in the Budget Speech it is proposed to double the statutory exemption for estate duty purposes and to increase from$4,000 to$10,000 the exemption level for gift duty. Legislation to give effect to these proposals has now been introduced. The measures proposed will confer full exemption from estate duty on about one-half of all estates that would have become dutiable under the present law. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
As announced in the Budget Speech, the Government proposes to increase by $52 the concessional deduction allowable under the income tax law for each dependant wholly maintained by a taxpayer. A Bill to give effect to this proposal was introduced into the House on 15th August 1972. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The question of extending the range of persons regarded as dependants, for whose maintenance a taxpayer may be allowed an income tax deduction, was considered along with many other proposals during the preparation of the recent Budget. The Government decided that reductions in taxation should be effected mainly by restructuring the income tax scale and increasing the value of the concessional deductions for the present range of dependants and by way of the other concessions announced in the Budget Speech. 
The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
Yes. 
As announced in my Budget Speech, the Income Tax Bill 1972 now before the House provides that for the 1972-73 financial year the minimum taxable income of individual taxpayers is to be $1,041. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I indicated in my Budget Speech on 17th August 1971 that altered tax instalment deductions reflecting the increase from 2 per pent to 5 per cent in the levy would operate from 1st October 1971. 
It is standard practice for Budget changes in income tax rates to have effect, for assessment purposes, from the commencement of the then current financial year. Accordingly, the increase in the levy was to apply for the whole of the 1971- 72 financial year. 
, (4) and (5) When I announced to the House in April 1972 that the levy was to be reduced from 5 per cent to 2) per cent I said that, for purposes of tax instalment deductions, this reduction would apply as soon as practicable. I added that in assessing incomes for the 1971-72 financial year it was proposed to proceed as though, notionally, the reduced rate of levy had been effective for the last quarter of the year. This resulted in the rate of levy that applied for the whole of the 1971-72 financial year being 4) per cent. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am not able to provide these details. 
It is believed that an important, and in many cases the sole, object of the incorporation of companies in the New Hebrides by Australians is to escape taxation. It is not practicable to describe all of the schemes that may be resorted to for this purpose. However, it is thought that most of the schemes would seek to take advantage of the fact that, while residents of Australia are subject to Australian income tax on incomes derived by them from sources in and out of Australia, companies or other persons who qualify as non-residents are subject to Australian tax only on income from sources in Australia. Such schemes may include highly artificial arrangements by which it is sought to give a New Hebrides source' to income originating in Australia. I need 
The term 'portfolio investment' is a very broad ranging one. It covers a variety of different forms of paper that evidence an entitlement to money. But I think the honourable gentleman was relating the term to the purchase of shares on the stock exchange. It is important to draw the distinction between portfolio in the broad and shares on the stock exchange. It is also important to draw a distinction between actions which are designed to achieve control and actions which are designed to achieve a share of ownership through the stock exchange. We have a policy in relation to the purchase of shares on the stock exchange which does not erect any barriers to those purchases because, almost by definition, they are directed towards achieving ownership and not towards achieving control. Normally a takeover is made under the provisions of the Companies Act and is clearly designed as a takeover for the purpose of assuming control. I have been giving very close consideration to that matter and the Government is now considering certain papers which I have put before it. 
However, I should like to make it clear that I have no recommendations in relation to portfolio investment in the form that the honourable gentleman mentioned, that is, the purchase of shares on the stock exchange. But if that purchase of shares is, to use the terminology, the action of a raider using the stock exchange to acquire control, that would be an entirely different matter and would have to be looked at in terms of a takeover seeking control. To return to the initial point made by the honourable gentleman, I have no recommendations whatever which would interfere with or put obstructions on the free flow of equity investments through the stock exchange from persons in overseas countries whose purpose was to achieve some ownership in Australia through the stock exchange in order to spread their portfolio interest in those areas where they believe that their equity capital would be well invested. 
I have not seen the article. I have seen Press reports relating to it. From the reports I have read it sounds as though, after labouring long and hard, the Bank of New South Wales economics writers have come up with the right conclusion. lt is my view that a prices incomes policy can never be a permanent feature of economic management. A prices incomes policy at best can only be to deal with a very special and extreme situation. 
I have some knowledge of the matters which the honourable gentlemen raises. I would be quite willing to receive a deputation. But I must say to the honourable gentleman that members from my own Party have been active in this matter before the intervention of the honourable gentleman. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation which involves a misrepresentation of me. 
MrClyde Cameron - I ask whether the Treasurer claims to have been misrepresented? 
 I claim to have been misrepresented by the honourable member for Hindmarsh. In making his personal explanation the honourable gentleman said that I had said that he was rebuffed by the Federal Executive last year. I did not say that. I said that he was rebuffed by the Federal Executive this year - last March. In his personal explanation the honourable gentleman dealt with a series of events in 1971, culminating in December, relating to sanctions. I was talking about a rebuff in relation to a decision taken on wages policy, I think in March of this year in Adelaide. The honourable gentleman has quoted a great deal. Let me quote something which justifies the inference I have drawn, which has never been denied by the honourable gentleman. Indeed, it was the subject of very great publicity at the time the honourable gentleman wanted to institute a policy of holding down wages at what he described as the higher level of incomes. He ran into trouble with the Public Service, because the Public Service said that it would impose a ceiling and this would press the lower wages up against it. The honourable gentleman still has problems with the Public Service. It was the people in the Public Service who sent telegrams. Then there was a meeting of the Federal Executive, and the proposal put by the honourable gentleman did not last more than 48 hours. It was not proceeded with. 
 I was misrepresented by the reference to the events of last year when I was referring to this year. An illustration of the publicity given at that time is this small item taken from the 'Australian' of 25th April 1972: 
The ALP's shadow Minister for Labor,  Mr Clyde  Cameron, has angered white-collar union leaders by proposing a new wage policy which should give higher increases to employees on low incomes . . . They say the proposals, if adopted by the ALP, will destroy the long-established wage difference between different groups based on skills, responsibilities and value of work performed. The 
Cameron plan will remove the incentives for promotion to upper-echelon white-collar jobs, they say. 
My understanding - this is what I said this morning - was that the Federal Executive decided in Adelaide not to go along with what I described this morning as an embryonic wages policy of the Labor Party, because it would have been the first time that the ALP had a wages policy; it does not possess a wages policy. 

 Mr CLYDE CAMERON (Hindmarsh)- 

 Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Wages and incomes. 
Table them. 

 Mr SNEDDEN (Bruce- Treasurer)-  Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes, I do claim to have been misrepresented. The honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  said, after he tabled the minutes, that they would show that he did not move any motion whatever and that there is no income prices policy. The implication of what he is saying is that somehow, when I made my statement earlier this morning, it was wrong. Now, out of his own mouth he has said that the Australian Labor Party has no income prices policy. It leaves the accusation I made unrebutted. Labor has a prices policy but no income policy. 
The  answer  to the honourable member's  question  is  as  follows: 
Yes. During the first quarter of 1972, prices of all farm machinery, as measured by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics index, rose by 1.9 per cent. I am advised, however, that an analysis by the Bureau of the data used to construct the index indicates that only a minority of items of farm machinery increased in price, and most large increases which did occur were associated with changes in the type or model of machinery. For those price changes not directly associated with major change in the nature or quality of machinery, the price movement was generally around  1  per cent during the quarter. 
I am not aware of the specific factors which caused such individual price increases as did occur. No doubt increases in costs for raw materials (such as steel) and for labour may have been relevant in the pricing decisions taken. 
I am advised that the rise in February 1972 in the basis of BHP light structural shapes of thetypes used in agricultural machinery production was about 8.5 per cent. 
The BHP steel price rise has been fully discussed in the Parliament and elsewhere, and I see no purpose in further canvassing the issue. 
The  answer  to the honour  able member's question is as follows: 
When natural disasters of a major kind occur, the Commonwealth, upon request, normally joins with the State in which the disaster has taken place in financing schemes for the relief of personal hardship and distress, usually on a $1 for $1 basis. It is the usual practice for the State Government concerned to make such requests at the time of the disaster. 
and (3) Details of natural disaster assistance sought by the Queensland Government in 1970-71 and 1971-72 for the relief of personal hardship and distress and other expenditure, and of assistance actually provided by the Commonwealth, are given below: - 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The total amounts of deductions allowed for education expenses in the income tax returns of taxable individuals tabulated for the income years 1967-68 to 1969-70 were as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is understood that a good deal of preliminary work has been undertaken by the OECD Secretariat in Paris in preparation for the Organisation's first survey of the Australian economy. 
Yes. 
Not yet. 
See (3) above. 
An OECD mission is scheduled to hold discussions in Canberra in the near future. 
The timing of publication of the review is in the hands of the OECD, but our understanding is that it is unlikely to be before late December of this year or early in January 1973. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
As announced in my Budget Speech, the Government proposes to introduce legislation as soon as possible to assist in the establishment and running of child care centres operating on a nonprofit basis to benefit children from low income and other special need families. It is envisaged that these centres will cater for the children of working parents, giving priority of admission to children in special need, such as those from single parent families, and to children of sick or incapacitated parents. 
The proposed assistance does not involve the use of the taxation system. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The residence test for entitlement to a zone allowance has been given a good deal of study. Several alternative courses, including that now proposed by the honourable member, have been considered, without, however, its having been found practicable to adopt any one of them. The matter will be kept under review. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Statistics relating to income tax deductions allowed for education expenses per child for whom the deductions were allowed were last compiled in respect of the 1967-68 income year. The income tax statistics for that year showed the number of children for whom the maximum deduction of $300 per child was allowed to taxable individuals as 124,046. However, the total number of children for whom education  deductions  were  allowed  was not compiled  in respect of  the 1967-68 income year. No  other  statistics  are  available  of numbers  of  children  classified  by  the size of the income  tax  deduction  allowed  for  their  education expenses. 
The only other income tax statistics  that may  be of assistance  to the  honourable member are statistics for  the  1969-70 income year  of  numbers of taxable  individuals  classified  by the  amount  of  the deduction  allowed  per taxpayer for education expenses. These statistics are summarised below: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (l)(a) The Commonwealth Banking Corporation of itself does not operate as a profit-making body. Its costs are reimbursed by the 3 member banksThe Commonwealth Trading Bank, the Commonwealth Savings Bank and the Commonwealth Development Bank - in terms of sections 36, 48 and 81 of the Commonwealth Banks Act 1959- 1968. (b), (c), (d) The net profits of the 3 member banks of the Commonwealth Banking Corporation are set out below: 
 The information requested by the honourable member is set out in the following table: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The sales tax exemption for aids to manufacture applies to equipment for use by a manufacturer exclusively, or primarily and principally, in carrying out specified classes of operations in connection with the manufacture of goods or in carrying out scientific research in relation to his manufacturing operations. Certain classes of equipment are specifically excluded from exemption as aids to manufacture and one of the classes of goods so excluded is office equipment which is not for use directly in the manufacture of goods. 
A computer installation normally comprises several units of equipment. Some items used in computer operations, e.g., manually operated card and tape punching machines, verifiers and card sorting and collating equipment, are classifiable as office equipment. Other units of equipment, e.g., centra] processing units and ancillary equipment such as line printers and tape readers, do not fall into the category of goods known as office equipment. These are not debarred from exemption as aids to manufacture. 
Some manufacturers use computers primarily and principally in carrying out scientific research in relation to their manufacturing operations. They are entitled to exemption from sales tax on those items in the computer installation that are not classifiable as office equipment. No statistical information is available on the cost to revenue of this exemption but computers generally are not used for purposes that would bring them within the scope of the aids to manufacture exemption. 
 The answer  to the  honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am aware of a Press release following the conference of State water supply anil sewerage authorities mentioned by the honourable member in which these statements were made. 
In determining the amount of financial assistance it provides to the States, and the levels of the Loan Council programmes for State works and housing and for borrowings by State authorities it will support, the Commonwealth takes fully into account information and advice of . the State governments concerning their financial requirements and those of their subsidiary authorities. 
I see no prospect of any change in salaries or pension arrangements before the election. I understand that the honourable gentleman, who is retiring from this Parliament, is concerned about the years of service he has put in and about the statutory requirement to deduct from his salary payments to the superannuation fund which we have. There are colleagues on my side of the House and no doubt on the other side who are very much affected. They came in at a very young age and qualified and they will go on paying under the statutory obligation for as long as they are here. That is not a feature common to any other scheme that I am aware of. I think there will be a need to look at the question of pension entitlement. I do not even like the word 'pension' because it rather implies that there is a handout whereas every member of this Parliament is making a very considerable contribution out of his salary. 
That leads to the first part of the honourable gentleman's question, which relates to the salary of members. The salary level of members of this House is quite clearly factually and unassailably below those of al least 2 or probably 4 State parliaments. I do not think that salary level can continue long into the future. I regret very much that the proposals that were before the House earlier this year were not put into legislative form. They were not, and there is no point in our looking over our shoulders and arguing about that. It will be a matter for the next Parliament to determine and I would hope that in the new Parliament there will be proper equity in salary payments to members. 
We are holders of large sums of international currency. Our attitude is that we will participate in an examination of the development .of a neutral reserve asset which is currently being called special drawing rights (modified). We are quite prepared to have an examination of this matter but I have made it clear in the International Monetary Fund forum and the World Bank forum that we are good holders of international currency which we regard as valuable. We are not prepared to sacrifice that holding for the sake of a piece of paper which is so labelled until it has attached to it all the values which are attached to other forms of reserve asset. 
As an illustration of our attitude let me say that if the Governor of the Reserve Bank were to send to me a notice saying that we were proposing to transfer our reserve currencies into some form of special drawing rights, I agreed, and they were transferred over, the people of Australia would think that the Government was off its head. I have no doubt that the Opposition would fall for that and would be off its head. The essential point 'is that the official holdings of reserves amount to the holdings of the individuals of this country who are engaged in trade and commerce and we will not put them at risk in any way. 
If there can be development of a neutral reserve asset which has the acceptance of the whole world and can be presented for value Which does attract a reasonable interest rate such as the currency investments hold, we will go along with it. However, it is important to understand that it will take a long time for the world to accept that this particlar reserve asset has such a value. Until that happens we are not prepared in any way to prejudice the holdings we have and that our people have built up. 
The countries of the world are aware of the rapidity of international capital flows. That matter was considered at the meeting of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development and in the Committee of Twenty countries of the International Monetary Fund. The United States Secretary of the Treasury, in his speech at the International Monetary Fund meeting, was really arguing for a free capital world market. He felt that there should be no limitations on capital flows. He recognised that there were problems for countries from capital flows and that this was a matter for consideration. Essentially he was looking for an open market. 
When I spoke I made the point that we did not want to see a dominant economy like that of the United States of America being able to export capital without limitation on balance of payment constraints and that therefore the situation for Australia was vastly different from that of the United States. The United Kingdom has certainly been one of the countries greatly affected by the volatility of capital flows. It understands our position as do all the other countries of the world which are subject to these dislocating capital flows on the one hand and also the aggregation of overseas ownership of their assets on the other. I think there is understanding throughout the world of these problems. Australia's action was understood and I believe that many countries will be interested to see the way in which we handle the problem. Indeed, at the International Monetary Fund meeting 2 of the developed countries, through their Finance Ministers, asked me for a copy of the statement so that they could submit it to examination to see whether it would be of assistance to them. 
The last complete figures we have are for the position as at the end of June, but we do have monthly figures for July and August, which at this stage represent only a collection of the information and are not firm. Inasmuch as the Commonwealth Statistician has put them out, I think we can rely on them reasonably strongly. They show that for the 3 months to the end of August consumer spending went up by an annual seasonally adjusted figure of 1 1 per cent. By contrasting that with the growth in consumer spending over the whole of the previous financial year of about 7.8 per cent it can be seen that consumer spending is going up. As to the future trend, I think that those figures - as the honourable gentleman will realise - show that there was an inherent recovery in consumer spending in the economy then existing. I expect that recovery to continue. Moreover, the effects of the Budget had not been felt at that point of time. I expect that in future months - in September, October and so on - the figures will reflect the effect of the Budget, the purpose of which was to identify consumer spending as a very important trigger to economic activity. It will be recalled that we reduced personal income taxation and very greatly increased social service expenditure in the Budget so that there would be a much greater disposable income in the hands of individuals. As that disposable income is used, so consumer spending will go up by much more. 
The Treasury estimates that for the whole of this financial year the economy will grow at the rate of about 5 per cent on constant prices, which means to achieve that over the year the rate of growth from now on will have to be at a higher level than 5 per cent. As this higher growth rate continues so all the slack in the economy will be taken up, the unemployment rate, which has been too high for our purposes and for community and social purposes, will diminish' and the general tenor of the economy will be one of great activity. 
Pursuant to section 14 of the Commonwealth Grants Commission Act 1933-1966 I present the thirty-ninth report of the Commonwealth Grants Commission on the applications made by the States of Queensland, South Australia and Tasmania for  financial assistance under section 96 of the Constitution. Incorporated in this report is the special report on the application made by the State of Queensland for financial assistance under section 96 of the Constitution. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Some information on interest receipts and payments is published in Australian National Accounts National Income and Expenditure 1970-71. The detailed information on amounts requested by the honourable member is not available. It should be noted that in the Australian National Accounts, in accordance with standard international practice, interest payments are treated as income transfers, not as factor incomes. It follows that the percentage of interest payments in gross national product at factor cost would not be analytically meaningful. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The main direct Commonwealth incentive for the systematic development of inventions in Australia is provided by the provisions of the Industrial Research and Development Grants legislation. The original Act was introduced in 1967 and a new Act embodying a revised scheme of assistance became law last month. Under this scheme, manufacturing and mining companies which increase their research and development expenditure in a particular year above the level of such expenditure in a base period may become eligible for grants at the rate of SO per cent of the first $50,000 of eligible expenditure in 1972-73 and at rates generally below that level in respect of eligible expenditure in excess of $50,000. Net expenditure on plant and equipment for research and development purposes in a particular year will become eligible for grants without reference to similar expenditure in a base period under the new scheme. In 1972-73 it is estimated that some $14m will be paid in grants for industrial research and development activity. 
Assistance is also provided to the Inventors Association of Australia. The major aim of the Association is to offer assistance to its members in the development of their inventions. In 1972-73 a matching dollar-for-dollar grant of up to $12,000 will be provided by the Commonwealth to help the Association in its work. 
Under special provisions of the income tax law, inventors may apply to have their tax for a particular year calculated at a concessional rate to lessen any disadvantage arising from the receipt of abnormally high income in that year because of the inclusion of amounts received for the assignment of patents or from patent royalties. The income tax law also provides for the deduction of expenditure of a capital nature incurred on the development of a patented invention used for the purpose of producing assessable income. The general effect is that a taxpayer devising an invention is entitled to write off the development costs over the effective life of the patent commencing with the year of income in which he first uses it for the purpose of producing assessable income. A minimum annual deduction of $100, however, is provided for these recoupment purposes which means that in the case of relatively small development costs the full amount of those costs may be deductible in the one year, or, alternatively over an accelerated period less than the effective life of the invention. Expenditure incurred by a taxpayer in obtaining the grant or renewal of a patented invention for the purpose of producing assessable income is deductible in the income year in which it is incurred. 
Income tax deductions for costs of development of a patented invention are generally allowable over the effective life of the patent where the invention is used for the purpose of producing assessable income. Where a lump sum payment for an invention forms part of the assessable income of a taxpayer for a particular year, deductions would be allowable against that income for the development costs incurred. Where an invention is not used for the production of assessable income, or where any payment received on sale or assignment of an invention is not included in assessable income, no deduction is available for the development costs. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Because the Loan Funds of the various State governments, as shown in their Auditor-General's Reports, are not fully comparable, the definition of State loan funds adopted here is the total of the works and housing programme, loan repayments by State authorities and departments, and the loan balance carried forward from the preceding year. The amount and percentage of State government loan funds (as thus defined) allocated to State authorities administering omnibus, tram and ferry services in each of the past 10 years are shown in the table below. No such allocations have been made in Victoria and Queensland. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In reply to parts (1) and (2) of the honourable member's question, the Commonwealth Statistician has provided the following table which shows details of direct and indirect and total taxation per head of mean population collected by all public authorities for the years 1949-50 and 1971-72. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is nol open to the Treasurer to give information about events said to have occurred in an area outside his jurisdiction and as to which he has no persona) knowledge. As the honourable member would presumably know, the responsibility for the administration of the income tax laws rests with the Commissioner of Taxation, an independent statutory officer who is not subject to ministerial control or direction in the exercise of his statutory functions. This has been the position since the first Commonwealth income tax law was enacted in 1915. The Treasurer does not have access to the Commissioner's files and records. The Parliament has seen fit to provide expressly, in section 16 (5a) of the Income Tax Assessment Act, thai the statutory prohibition of disclosure of confidential information by the Commissioner of Taxation extends so as to prohibit any such disclosure to a minister. 
I have no personal knowledge which would lead me to believe that a well-known firm of stockbrokers made a profit of $2. 5m from operations described as bond washing or that the other events described in the Honourable Member's question look place. I have not asked the Commissioner of Taxation for any information on the matters raised in the question, nor have I been given any such Information. The Commissioner has, however, assured me that the decisions relating to the income tax liabilities of the taxpayers referred to would have been made in his office by an independent interpretation and application of the relevant provisions of the income tax law. Needless to say, I have not sought to influence the Commissioner, in any manner whatsoever, in relation to the income tax affairs of any firm of stockbrokers. 
See answers to (1) and (2). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The purpose of section 260 of the Income Tax Assessment Act is to void as against the Commissioner of Taxation any contract, agreement or arrangement which has the effect of altering the incidence of income tax or of defeating, evading or avoiding any liability imposed on any person. It is unlikely that the incorporation into the sales tax legislation of a provision such as section 260 would provide an additional protection to the revenue. In the absence of a specific exemption, sales tax is imposed on each separate sale and the voiding of a contract, agreement or arrangement relating to that sale would presumably result in no sales tax at all being payable in respect of that transaction. An amendment of  a  different kind would be called for in the event of it becoming necessary to prevent the operation of a particular kind of contract, agreement or arrangement designed to avoid sales tax which the law intended to impose. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The relevant income tax statistics available relate to actual income of taxable individuals and net tax assessed for each of the income years concerned. The following estimates therefore show (a) the proportion of total actual income attributed to taxable individuals in each 10-per- centile group and (b) the proportion of total actual income less tax assessed attributed to taxable individuals in each 10-percentile group. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Because the Loan Funds of the various State Governments, as shown in their AuditorGeneral's Reports, are not fully comparable, the definition of State loan funds adopted here is the total of the works and housing programme, loan repayments by State authorities and departments, and the loan balance carried forward from the preceding year. The amount and percentage of State loan funds (as thus defined) allocated to railways in each of the past 10 years are shown in the table below: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The estimated loss to income tax revenue attributableto each of the various types of concessional allowances in respect of which statistics of deductions allowed were published in Table No. 2 of Commonwealth Income Tax Statistics, presented on the occasion of the Budget 1972-73, is set out below: 

 - Mr Speaker- 

The consumer price index showed over the totality an increase for the September quarter of 1.4 per cent. This was a satisfactory figure, although it was not as good as we wanted. This was the third quarter of the year. The figures far the previous quarters were 1.1 per cent and 0.9 per cent. So, the Government can feel that it has made an impact on containing prices. 
The underlying rate of price increases at present is about 5 per cent, whereas it was 7 per cent in the calendar year 1971. Anybody who wishes to take away credit from the efforts of the Government is doing it for his own political purposes and not objectively. The honourable member for Ballaarat referred to the item of potatoes. There was a fall in the price of potatoes as registered by the Commonwealth Statistician in the June quarter and there was no increase in the price of potatoes in the September quarter. So, the rise in the consumer price index in the September quarter owes nothing to an increase in the price of potatoes. As to where the profit is going, as the honourable gentleman put it, I think it is a matter for the growers themselves to consider the way in which they can protect their income from the product of their effort. 
I am grateful to the honourable gentleman for paying tribute to this particular measure in the Budget. T think it was a great advance for those people who have contributed to their own post-retirement income. I will consider the point raised by the honourable gentleman. 
I am aware of the accusations made by the honourable member for Hindmarsh against the Department of Labour and National Service, whose officers I know very well, and the Treasury, whose officers now work with me. I was very disturbed at the allegation. It was an attack on the probity, reputation and character of those officers. It was an extraordinary attack by a member of the front bench of a Party which claims their political support and which periodically attempts to persuade the Public Service that its interests would better be served by a Labor government. But when such attacks are continually made I wonder how public servants, whether they be Commonwealth or State public servants, could entertain that point of view. 
This was not an isolated attack at all. It followed an attack by the Leader of the Opposition on the probity and character of the Commonwealth Statistician which led the Statistician to make it quite clear publicly that he resented the attack and that there was no foundation for it. Subsequently  Senator Georges  and the honourable member for Lalor attacked the probity and character of the Commissioner of Taxation. These are no isolated events. When I heard of it I made inquiries from the Treasury. The' basis of the allegation was that information was withheld and that this information, which was said to be very important, was a Master of Economics thesis by  Mr Tilling  of the Department of Labour and National Service. I inquired of the Treasury as to whether the Department had withheld it. I was informed as follows: 
As to the detail of what  Mr Cameron  said we had not, in Treasury, heard of any thesis prepared by  Mr Tilling  until 2 or 3 weeks ago when, quite informally, a report to the effect that we were supposed to have the thesis in our possession came to our attention. However, a check revealed that no such thesis was held in Treasury or had been seen by Treasury officers. Inquiries elicited the information that  Mr Tilling  is doing a thesis at Monash University but has not yet completed it. There has been, therefore, no thesis accepted for the degree of Master of Economics by Monash University although I understand there are working papers  Mr Tilling  has prepared in the course of working on his thesis. However, we have not seen them. 
Although in one sense this is a trivial matter it does bear on Treasury's integrity and I have gone into detail in order to make the record quite clear.  Mr Cameron  has been misinformed on this particular question. 
It is signed by  Mr J.  O. Stone, the  Deputy  Secretary (Economic) of the Treasury, and it is dated 13 th October. 
I saw reports recently about a certain taxpayer in Australia who is a former resident of South Africa. Perhaps this is the case to which the honourable gentleman refers. The resident of South Africa had an estate in South Africa, but because of the exchange control regulations of South Africa he could not withdraw his assets from that country and, in fact, he could not even receive the dividend that was paid on those assets in South Africa; yet under the law the Commissioner of Taxation was obliged to assess him and to require him to pay Australian income tax on the dividends earned from the assets in South Africa which were not available to him. The man took the matter to the High Court and the High Court ruled that he was obliged to pay. I will see what progress has been made on the examination of this issue of whether there ought to be relief. This matter has come to light in regard to one person but others may be affected as well. I notice that the honourable gentleman in his question referred also to the issue of estate duty. 1 will ensure that this matter is examined as well as the income tax provision. 
The Government's attitude is not to give replies which are geared to satisfying a particular group in the community. It has concern for the whole community. The whole community in this case includes the insurance industry which has operated in this country since the first settlement. It has developed over the years into an industry which has given tremendous support to the Australian people in the provision of insurance, the lending of money and in financing the development of Australia. 
I understand fully what the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  has said, and I am bound to say that I recognise the strength of his argument. I acknowledge that the provision to which he referred is unusual. It was put in the Bill for a specific purpose. I think that when it was put in it was not seen in the way that the honourable gentleman has described it. Rather it was seen as emphasising the interim nature of the legislation. It is a fact that when the permanent legislation comes in, that legislation itself can repeal the interim Act. There is no doubt about that. I will not stand on the barricades on this point. I indicate to the honourable gentleman that I will be prepared to accept his amendment as a conceptual matter, but I ask him to reconsider whether he will press his amendment, reminding him that if it is pressed it will require a reprinting of the legislation. I do not know what our colleagues in the Senate would do about it. I do not know whether they would adopt the same attitude as myself and leave in the legislation the paragraph which it is sought to delete. There is no vice in it. It has no harm in it. Therefore I leave it to the honourable gentleman to decide whether he will press his amendment. If he does press it, I am bound to say that I cannot offer any arguments to warrant paragraph (d) remaining in clause 2. It is only a simple, practical issue of whether the Bill would need to be reprinted before transmission to the Senate. 
1 assure the honourable gentleman that there was no motive behind this clause other than to emphasise the interim nature of this legislation. There is no intention that it should be brought to an end before the permanent legislation which will succeed this interim legislation comes into the Mouse and becomes law. The permanent legislation will be different in nature from this legislation. I remind the honourable gentleman that when the permanent legislation comes in - as indicated by the statement of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  on 26th September - an independent body will be established to which takeover matters will be referred. There is no time to constitute that body now and if we do not have the interim legislation a number of takeover proposals which we may wish to submit to examination will not be capable of submission to examination, hence we want this as a temporary measure. 
I cannot foreshadow the long term legislation in detail, because this is not the appropriate time to do so, but it will, for instance, provide for the constitution of an independent body. Also, as was made clear in the second reading speech to this Bill, this interim legislation does not cover the entire area. It deals with companies. There are other methods by which it would be possible to achieve control but in this interim measure there was not sufficient time to go into the complexities of that other area. That is something we will have to handle. I assure the honourable gentleman that the Government is determined to give effect in legislative form to all the policy elements contained in the Prime Minister's statement of 26th September. 
I wonder whether we could defer consideration of this clause for a moment. The Parliamentary Counsel is seated within the chamber and perhaps I could get him to examine this matter. Possibly the Committee can proceed with other clauses in the meantime. 
 The figure of 15 per cent has fallen into fairly common use as the basis upon which control may be exercised. It does not mean that there will be control because, quite clearly, if there is one shareholder with 60 per cent and another with 15 per cent the one with 15 per cent is unlikely to be able to exercise control. The 15 per cent is the level that has fallen into common use. I think it really derived from broadcasting control legislation which pitches the level at 15 per cent. In the uniform Companies Act it is picked up for other purposes. It is not a figure that has any precise origin but over a period of years the judgment has been that a collective 15 per cent could mean control, especially if the other 85 per cent were widely dispersed over a whole range of unconnected shareholders. 
Motion (by  Mr Snedden)  agreed to: 
That clause 2 be postponed. 
Clause 3 (Additional operation of Act) 
 I think the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  has asked a good question. The provision has not been included, as the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  suggested, because this is a convenient place for it. There is a good reason for it. I refer honourable members to clause 5 which is the clause which establishes the constitutional power for the Bill. Paragraph (a) of clause 5 is the financial corporation power and paragraph (b) is the Commonwealth territories power. It was necessary also to cover holding companies. The constitutional power for covering holding companies rests on the incidental power. That could be argued, and I would not like to say that it is beyond all legal doubt. Therefore it was decided to separate that power covering the holding companies from clause 5 because of the experience in the Concrete Pipes case in which, when it was found that there was in law a fault, the court decided that the faulty section was not severable and then the whole of the legislation was brought down. On the advice we have received from the SolicitorGeneral and from the Parliamentary Counsel it is best, as a matter of drafting, to separate it entirely from clause 5 and to create a clause 3 so that we do not encounter the possibility of the legislation failing because of the non-severability of the holding company proposal. That is the explanation. I think it is a reasonable one. 
I seek leave to move 3 amendments together. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Armitage)  - Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
I move: 
In sub-clause (2.), paragraph (b), omit 'and'. 
In sub-clause (2.) paragraph (c), omit 'person.', insert 'person; and'. 
At the end of sub-clause (2.) add the following paragraph: - 
a corporation shall be taken not to be a foreign corporation if the Minister is satisfied that, having regard to all the circumstances, persons or corporations, or persons and corporations, referred to in the definition of 'foreign corporation' in the last preceding sab-section are not in a position to exercise a significant degree of control over the conduct of the affairs of the corporation.". 
The 3 amendments really amount to one. All that is involved here is that, because my amendment will put in a paragraph (d), the 'and' connecting paragraphs (b) and (c) has to go down to the end of paragraph (c). The first amendment is to delete the word 'and' from where it appears. The second amendment is to delete the last word person' and to substitute for it the words person and'. The real amendment comes in as paragraph (d). The simplest and quickest way for me to explain it is to read my own note. 
As stated in the second reading speech, the question whether a takeover proposal would result in control of a company passing from Australian to foreign hands will be a matter for separate consideration in the circumstances of each case. For this purpose there is a presumption that ownership of IS per cent of the voting shares of a company by a single foreign interest or an associated group, or ownership of 40 per cent of the voting shares by foreign interests in the aggregate, could mean that a company is under foreign control. But whether the company is in fact under foreign control will depend upon the circumstances. The Bill makes it quite plain in clause 13 that this principle applies to a company which is the subject of a takeover proposal It is logical that the same principle should apply in determining whether a company making a takeover proposal is under foreign or Australian control, and it is the intention of the Government that the legislation should be administered in this way. 
In order to make the position quite clear in relation to a company making a takeover proposal, it is proposed to add at the end of sub-clause (2.) of clause 4 the proposed paragraph in my circulated amendment. Perhaps the simplest explanation is to take company A which has a foreign partner owning perhaps 20 per cent of the shares, with the remaining 80 per cent being entirely Australian owned. If that company wishes to make a takeover bid for another Australian company it should be regarded in the same way and not regarded as a foreign company for this purpose. It is a logical extension, and I ask the Committee to support the amendments. 
 I have checked and found that the Bill will have to be reprinted. As it is the end of the session it was hoped that it would not be necessary to reprint it. This means it will have to be rechecked and so on. That will have to be done overnight. As I have indicated, there is no vice in the amendment, but I am unable positively to support it. I had no intention to do other than emphasise the interim nature of the legislation. That certainly has been emphasised by the discussion we have had. Therefore I will accept the amendment. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill - by leave - taken as a whole, and agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report - by leave - adopted. 

 Mr Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill, I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, the Pollution of the Sea by Oil (Shipping Levy) Bill and the Pollution of the Sea by Oil (Shipping Levy Collection) Bill as they are related measures. Separate questions may, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest,  Mr Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the 3 Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
The answers to the honourable member's question are contained in the following tables: 
and (3) The following are the amounts and terms of Australian government cash and conversion loans raised between 1st July 1950 and 30th June 1972 (inclusive): 
Loans raised in Australia 
Note - In the case of combined cash and conversion loans (marked (b)), the break-up in respect of individual securities between the cash and conversion applications is not available. 
There has been no consideration which would lead us to the conclusion that it would be a proper course of action. I think there are over 900,000 local government bodies in Australia. 
What do you find wrong about that? 
If I said other than 900 I apologise. 
If I said that, I apologise. My intention was to say that there are over 900 such bodies. 
Exactly. All the promises are in millions and that is the sort of promise which is likely to come from the Opposition at any moment. The Grants Commission was set up to consider the claims of the claimant States. The proposal that we equate local government bodies to the States can be seen to put upon the Grants Commission an extraordinarily heavy burden in going through the claims of all the local government bodies and semi-government authorities. The Grants Commission adopts a standard. It is that of 2 States - not three or any other number. The Commission then sees what the claimant States ought to do to bring their services to approximately the level of the 2 standard States; in other words, to put an equality test. The sort of problems that would be involved in an equality test for 900 local government bodies in Australia, which would involve going into their finances - and, as I understand from what is proposed this would be an examination of capital issues as well as current account issues - would make the task of the Grants Commission difficult beyond comprehension. Not only would it be  necessary to look at the equality issue but first it would be necessary to adopt the standard by which the equality could be tested. The criteria would have to be determined. Even if all of these tasks could be overcome, attractive as it may seem at first sight, such a proposal really brings one back to the basic fundamental requirement - that is, if one is to do something about it one needs to find the money to do it. There is little point in saying that we will do all of these grand things without explaining where the money will come from for the purpose. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  has claimed that I misrepresented him. 
Yes. I claim that I have been misrepresented by the Leader of the Opposition. The Leader of the Opposition said that I misrepresented him by drawing attention to the 900 local government bodies. What the honourable gentleman now says is that lie was not, in fact, talking about the 900 but about regions. This is very much part of the problem that I was setting out in answer to the question. It is a misrepresentation to say that I said there would be 900 applications. I pointed to the fact that there were 900 bodies and the obvious conclusion that is left is that there are either 900 or a compulsory consolidation of local government bodies in order to reach dissection. 
by leave - For the information of honourable members I present a report on the fourth quinquennial investigation as at 30th June 1969 into the state of sufficiency of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund. 
As announced by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  in his statement on defence forces retirement benefits, I have received from the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Board, in accordance with section 22(4) of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act, a report on the results of the fourth quinquirnial Investigation of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund for the period 1st July 1964 to 30th June 1969. The Board forwarded with its report the related report by the Commonwealth Actuary submitted to the Board in terms of section 22(3) of the Act. 
Briefly, the investigation disclosed that, in respect of pre-1959 entrants - that is, those members who commenced contributing on a unit of pension basis before 14th December 1959 - there was an available surplus as at 30th June 1969 of approximately $ 14.9m of which $3.1m is attributable to pensioners and $ 11.8m attributable to contributors. It also discloses that the rates of contribution for additional benefits arising after 30th June 1969 could be reduced for this group of contributors. On the other hand, the investigation disclosed that, in respect of post- 1959 entrants - that is, those members who commenced contributing on or after 14th December 1959 - there was at 30th June 1969 a small deficiency of $544,000. No change in contribution rates of post- 1959 members has been recommended. 
In its report to me, the Board has emphasised that the results disclosed by the investigation, the availability of surplus assets and the order of any deficiency are only valid while the DFRB scheme continues in its present form. This is because the valuation is on the basis of the details of contributors and pensioners at 30th June 1969 and according to the rates of contribution and benefits which applied at the time of the investigation. Thus, the surplus of $ 14.9m and the deficiency of $544,000 depend on the continuation into the future of the existing scheme. It follows, therefore, that if any of the conditions and assumptions taken into account by the Actual y are varied, the conclusions he has reached as to the liabilities and assets of the Fund would need to be revised. 
The changes in the DFRB scheme that the Prime Minister has announced will operate from 1st October 1972 could affect the outcome of the investigation. In the circumstances I am asking the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Board to take into account the changed situation and submit a further report. 
by leave - I thank the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  for the cooperation he has extended to me in allowing me to make this statement. Yesterday I said that I was examining the question whether the Insurance Bill and its companion, the Insurance (Deposits) Bill, should be brought on for debate with a view to their passage during the present session. I have come to the conclusion that it would not be proper to rush these Bills through Parliament. I am satisfied that there has not been sufficient time since the Bills were introduced on 28th September for honourable members and the public to give them the mature consideration which they deserve. 
The Insurance Bill contains 119 tightly drafted clauses and 2 schedules, the second of which contains more than 6 pages of fine print. The subject matter is very technical and the layman needs expert commercial and legal advice to understand the meaning and the implications of the provisions. The Bill contains many new legal obligations to be placed on all general insurance companies. It is long-term legislation which will govern the conduct of general insurance companies for many years to come - indeed, as far into the future as one can see. In ordinary circumstances there would be no question that this legislation should lie on the Table at least for several months before it was put to debate. On the other hand, there are good reasons for wanting to have the legislation enacted as soon as possible. There is strong public and insurance industry support for bringing general insurance companies under supervision, and enactment of the Bills would allow the early appointment of an insurance commissioner who could get on with the task of setting up the organisation which will be needed to administer the legislation. Even that would take some period of time to be put into effect. It could not be done within a matter of weeks. It would take much longer than that. 
In order to form a view on the proper course to take, I invited senior representatives of the insurance industry to Canberra yesterday for discussions. My purpose in the discussions was to test the practicability of several courses which might be taken - for example, to pass the legislation now with the omission of one or two sections or to pass the legislation now on the understanding that some parts or sections of it would not be brought into force until there had been an opportunity to give full consideration to suggested amendments. The representatives who took part in the discussions explained that although they had not had time to consult all the members of their organisations they believed - and I accept that - that their views are shared by their members. The member companies are companies of all sizes, large, medium and small, belonging to the main insurance organisations in Australia. Most importantly from my point of view, the representatives who took part in the discussions are among the few people apart from my officers who, as yet, have been able to study and comprehend the contents of the Bill. 
There is a possible risk that, if some of the suggested amendments were not adopted, the legislation would bear more heavily on the medium and small companies than on the large insurance companies. 
So far no comments have been received from those outside the insurance organisations who could have interests, such as legal bodies, accountants, insurers not members of the established organisations, and members of the public at large. Considering the length and complexity of the legislation, the number of questions raised so far is remarkably small. This may, however, be due to the expectation of many people that there would be more time in which to put forward their points than there would be if we went on with the Bill now. 
After talking to the insurance industry representatives I have concluded that there are several matters which should have further consideration and that this could not be done quickly. I am also satisfied that it would not be possible to overcome the problems by alternative methods such as those I have mentioned, of passing part only of the Bill, because it is sp inextricably interrelated in its drafting. For those reasons, unfortunately, I cannot recommend to the House that we go on with the debate with a view to passing the legislation. This matter has caused me very great concern, but I believe that 2 public interests are involved. On balance, I have been forced to the conclusion that it would be better to defer this legislation. 
I present the following paper: 
General Insurance Legislation - Ministerial Statement, 26 October 1972. 
Motion (by  Mr Chipp)  proposed: That the House take note of the paper.  Mr JACOBI  (Hawker) (12.45) - I am very grateful to the shadow Treasurer, the honourable senator for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  and to the Leader of the House  (Mr Chipp),  for giving me the opportunity to reply briefly to the statement. I deplore the failure of the Government to give policy holders in particular and the industry generally the protection that they deserve. The failure of the Government to act is totally inexcusable. I raised this matter  2i  years ago. I have relentlessly pursued the issue ever since. Eighteen months ago the Government received a working paper from the Australian Insurance Association Which was an analysis or a summary of what the insurance industry wanted in terms of regulations. As I understand it, the. analysis was based on surveys that were carried out throughout the world. 
Seven months ago the Government seconded a Miss Rowena Armstrong from Melbourne as a parliamentary counsel. She is one of the best in Australia and the most competent person on company law legislation. That was 7 months ago. In the intervening period numerous discussions have taken place between officials of the Department of the Treasury and representatives of the AJA. In my view, there was no excuse at all for this delay. It is true, as the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  said, that we were given the opportunity of discussing the complexities of this Bill a week ago. My analysis - I am not breaking any confidences at all - is that there were several provisions of this Bill about which the Australian Insurance Association was concerned. I raised one of these matters. I have come to the conclusion that, even with amendments, the Bill could have passed through this House. 
In my view, insurance companies are notorious for wanting to act free of any regulation at all. I will venture to suggest that, despite what any government does, they will continually try to ward off this legislation. Nobody will convince me that the woman seconded by this Parliament did not go through the ramifications of the Bill with representatives of either the Treasurer or the insurance industry. Let me give a classic example to the Minister of exactly what happens in the insurance field. I want to quote from the 'Sunday Times' of 7th March 1971. An article headed The Watchdogs that didn't Bark' read as follows: 
The Board of Trade's position- 
It is now the Department of Trade and Industry - has been unhappy throughout. Basically, the department has been defeated 3 times: By the British Insurance Association, by the 1967 Companies Act, and by its own senior civil servants. 
As a regulatory body, the Board of Trade always left much to be desired. In July, 1966 for instance - at the time of Emil Savundra's great Fire, Auto and Marine crash - the relevant section of the Ministry, the Insurance and Companies Department, had just 17 people, some of these part-time, to oversee the whole insurance industry Their powers, too were strictly limited. 
The 1967 Companies Act, with its special section on insurance, was presented as a partial remedy. In fact, in the year's negotiations which led up to the Act, the civil servants were outmanoeuvred by the industry. The BIA, fighting the 1967 Act the whole way, rejected the compromise proposal put forward by the Board of Trade. 
The civil servants wanted spcial companies to be set up to handle all British consumer insurance. These alone would be subject to rigorous inspections. The rest of the industry - international business, for example- could go scot free. The BIA rejecting such tight control, shrewdly opted for looser sanctions over the whole industry. 
I venture to suggest that we will face exactly the same situation. If there is one thing which this Government has it is the constitutional power to act in this field. What the public wants and what I am equally interested in is protection of the policy holders and the public interest. If this Government fails to act decisively, as it ought to have done, more policy holders will suffer untold hardship and up to date tens of thousands have been involved. 
I just want to pass one more simple observation. I think the whole of the provisions of the legislation at the moment are built around the question of solvency, as they ought to be, and this is where the danger Jay in respect of the last 14 companies which went into liquidation. But there are several anomalies in this current legislation. Certainly this Government will not act but after the election, when there is a change in government, we certainly will. Despite what the insurance companies may think the following provisions, in my view, ought to go into the Bill: Firstly, there ought to be notifications to the Commissioner of changes in directors. There ought to be a tribunal set up to test the competence of directors, as is provided in the United Kingdom Act. There is no such provision in this Bill, and I believe it would be unacceptable to insurance companies. Let me quote an instance which points to the need for such a tribunal. The inquiry held in Melbourne by  Mr Dawson,  Q.C., into East Australian Insurance Co. Ltd proved beyond doubt, in my view, that the directors of that company should never ever be given the right to sit as a board of directors. Another provision of importance to the people of this country is inclusion in the Bill of pro forma schedules which would give basic minimum rights to policy holders. 
Another provision of importance would be to have some regulatory powers, which insurance brokers want, because recently in Sydney a large company dismissed over 20 insurance brokers on the grounds that they misled people who wanted to get insurance. As far as I personally am concerned, and I think as far as my Party is concerned, I can only condemn the Government for waiting  2i  years and until the last 23 hours of this Parliament to make a decision - which it will fail to act upon - to give to the policy holders of this country, in the interests of the public and the insurance industry generally, the protection that they deserve and are entitled to under the Constitution. 
The traditions of this Parliament are very important to us. The traditions are important to every member of this House. They are especially important to those who have served this Parliament and the nation for very many years and who are going out of the Parliament. I regret that the members who have served this Parliament and are going out of it will go out with the recollection that on the last night of this Parliament in which they have served those traditions were so sorely bruised. I would hope that we will not have in the lifetime of any member of this Parliament an experience similar to the one we have had tonight. We will say no more about it. We would hope that the Hansard record in relation to the last few minutes could be expunged. 
This is a very important night to those members who are departing. I would like to join in the compliments that have been paid to them and the service they have given in the interests of the democracy of our nation. One of the things which we come close to tonight is the operation of the democratic system in a few weeks time and what has been said by those who have just spoken or will be said by those who are about to speak tonight will not change that democratic process. There are some people who are leaving wittingly and I congratulate them on the sound commonsense which they are showing in doing so. There are those who will leave unwittingly. I regret that we will be deprived of their friendship which does exist despite the  Tough  and tumble of debate. 
I particularly thank all those persons who have made the conduct of the Parliament in this session an especially easily managed programme. There are 3 members of my own Party who are leaving and to whom I would like to pay my own tribute. They are  Sir Reginald  Swartz,  Sir Alan  Hulme and Tom Hughes. Reg Swartz, who had a particularly difficult period during the 1940s and carries the effects of that, has steadfastly refused to allow it at any time to interfere with his good humour. I have never known another man who could stand up in this House and bring a turbulent situation into one of calm and reason as Reg Swartz could. I compliment  Sir Alan  Hulme, a man who has had respect for his strict compliance at all times with the decencies of public life and his presentation of the truth at all times in the Parliament. I have enjoyed him as a colleague and a friend. Tom Hughes was spoken of, 1 think, very adequately by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and for the tribute paid to Tom Hughes I thank the Leader of the Opposition. I think it is a great pity that we will be deprived of his services. But there are other people who play an important role in this House. 1 refer to the 2 Whips, the Leader of the House and his consultant,  Sir Reginald  Swartz, and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. They do a job. The Clerks do a job. But I pay particular tribute to the Whips who have unfailingly kept the House running and have made sure that we won every division, just as I am sure that when we are in government after the next election Maxie Fox will make sure that we win them all. 
 At Question Time on 29th August 1972, the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  asked for information related to the investment of the Commonwealth Superannuation Fund. On the following day I provided certain answers which led to a further statement and additional inquiries by the honourable member. I undertook to examine the request of the honourable member that details of mortgage investments by the board should be tabled in the House; this inquiry was broadened to cover 2 other aspects of his question - the possibility of low interest loans by the board and financial support which may be given to housing and related services. 
The matter of tabling of details of mortgage loans by the Superannuation Board has been raised on a number of occasions. As a statutory corporation the board enters into its commercial transactions on a confidential investor-client basis. To table the details of mortgage loans, as suggested, would not only be a serious breach of confidentiality in respect of past transactions and contrary to an established practice of lending institutions but must prejudice the board in future lending activities. As to the question of low interest rates, the  President  has confirmed that the board does not invest in commercial loans at low interest rates. The established policy is to achieve the best available rates at a particular time; this has been reflected in consistent improvement in earning rates of the Fund in recent years as will be seen from the following table: 
I refer now to investment in housing. It is not the current policy of the board to enter into direct housing loans with individual home-owners but rather to lend to institutions which specialise in detailed housing loan administration. The board has invested some $16m at semi-government private loan rates with housing authorities of the Commonwealth and States, while $166m have been lent to governmental authorities for such services as water, sewerage, drainage, gas and electricity. These investments constitute a significant contribution to improved housing facilities in the States and Territories of the Commonwealth. 
I should add, for the purposes of the record, that the amount of $3 6.5m mentioned by the honourable member on 30th August 1972 (Hansard, page 880) was the amount of the total of first mortgages in New South Wales and not 'other than mortgages on land', as stated. It is also necessary to state that mortgage investments by the board are secured by specific changes in the form of first legal mortgages over commercial property; they do not take the form of an equitable mortgage, by way of a floating charge over the assets of the borrowers, which the honourable member was apparently led to believe. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commissioner of Taxation has advised that he is not aware of any loss of taxation revenue from the use of cost companies. A cost company is a legal form which is very frequently used in the mining industry overseas, ami occasionally in Australia, to provide a convenient entity to hold property and pay wages and other expenses on behalf of a group of companies engaged jointly in a mining venture. Under the typical arrangement, the cost company is in a position akin to that of a manager or trustee, being fully reimbursed by the joint venturers for the expenditure incurred on their account and handing over all proceeds to the joint venturers. Provided tl.at the joint venturers bear tax on their appropriate shares of the net proceeds of the venture, the introduction of a cost company does not have an adverse effect on the revenue. The inter-position of a cost company does not prevent the Commissioner from collecting the appropriate amount of tax from the venture as a whole. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (5) The responsibility for the administration of the income tax laws rests with the Commissioner of Taxation, an independent statutory officer who is precluded by section 16 of the Income Tax Assessment Act from making any public disclosure of information relating to particular taxpayers. The law expressly declares that this prohibition extends to preclude any disclosure to a Minister of the Crown. The Commissioner of Taxation has advised that, in the light of these provisions, he could not provide the information sought by the honourable member without breaching the confidentiality which the legislature has seen fit to require regarding the affairs of taxpayers. 
What progress has been made in devising measures to close the loopholes disclosed in these decisions (Hansard, 28 October 1964, page 2391). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Since 1964, there have been 2 decisions of the High Court adverse to the Commissioner of Taxation in which provisions of the Estate Duty Law were interpreted in a way contrary to that contended for by the Commissioner. The decisions were in Thurn v. Commissioner and Bray v. Commissioner. (There were other cases in which issues of fact or judgment were determined adversely to the Commissioner.) 
Thurn's case turned on section 8 (4) (f). Bray's case was concerned with section 8 (3) (b). 
The Commissioner is unable to provide any statistics of the amount of additional revenue which would have been collected if these cases had been decided in favour of the revenue. 
The effect of Thurn's case has been greatly diminished by a subsequent decision of the High Court in favour of the Commissioner. The Government has not, up to this time, seen fit to seek an amendment of the law to abrogate the effect of the decision in Bray's case. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The honourable member addressed a similar question to the then Treasurer in 1968. I have nothing to add to the reply given to this earlier question on J 5th May 1968. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1.) and (2) Since November 1964, there have been 2 decisions of superior courts in which the provisions of the Gift Duty Assesment Act were interpreted in a way contrary to that contended for by the Commissioner of Taxation. The cases were - 
Gorton v. Commissioner, which turned on the meaning of the definition of 'disposition of property' in section 4 of the Estate Duty Assessment Act; and 
Bray v. Commissioner, which turned on section 21. 
The Commissioner of Taxation has advised that no separate figures are available from which an estimate could be made of the difference between the duty collected each year and the duty that would have been collected if the 2 cases had been decided in favour of the Commissioner. 
In relation to Gorton's case, the Commissioner does not at present concede that the adverse decision has established a deficiency in the law but expects that the courts will soon be called upon to decide whether other provisions of the Act enable him to levy tax in the kind of situation which the court considered. The Government has not, up to this time, seen fit to introduce any amendments to the law designed to abrogate the effects of the Bray decision, but the need for general remedial legislation to counter avoidance of the gift duty provisions will be considered in due course. 
 On 20th September 1972, the  Leader of the  Opposition  (Mr  Whitlam), in  a  question without notice, asked tie Acting Treasurer whether the trading banks had approached the Reserve Bank for approval before the recent announcement of their plan to introduce a credit card scheme and, if so, what guidelines had been laid down. The Acting Treasurer said he would find out the position from the Treasury and the Reserve Bank of Australia. 
I am informed that before their recent announcement of a charge card facility, the major trading banks submitted details of their proposal to the Reserve Bank and sought agreement to their proceeding to implement the scheme. The Reserve Bank examined the proposals from the point of view of monetary and banking policy and, after consultation .with me, informed the banks that  it  had  no  objections  to  their proceeding with the operation on the lines proposed. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Responses to inquiries directed to the States have shown that information on the matters raised in the question is not available from all States on consistent bases, and some of it is not available at all. I shall forward to the honourable member information that has been obtained. 
Papua New Guinea: United Nations and Commonwealth Assistance  (Question No. 5741)  Mr Whitlam  asked the Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
What was the nature and extent of assistance for Papua New Guinea by all United Nations bodies in 1971. (Hansard, 17th August 1971, page 151 and 6th October 1971, page 2001). 
What was the nature and extent of assistance for Papua New Guinea under the Commonwealth Co-operation in Education Scheme and other Commonwealth programmes in 1971. (Hansard, 6th May 1971, page 2842). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth Statistician has advised that, although regular surveys on overseas investment in Australia are conducted by the Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics, information collected in respect of the operations of individual companies is strictly confidential and cannot be disclosed lo any person or government authority. With regard to overseas investment in television and radio stations, the Broadcasting and Television Act 1942-1972 provides that not less than 80 per cent of the issued capital of a company holding a licence must be beneficially owned by Australian residents and that no overseas shareholder is permitted to have more than IS per cent of the Issued capital. 
The terms of reference of the Senate Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control include investigation into the foreign ownership and control of Australian commerce, industries, land and resources. The Senate Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts has been requested by the Senate to inquire into all aspects of television and broadcasting. The Committee has invited submissions concerning, inter alia, the ownership, control and licensing of commercial stations. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No statistics are available as to the number of taxpayers who have arranged their business activities along these lines. 
As the system of sales tax provides for the imposition of tax on the last wholesale sale of goods without regard to any payment that may be made by the retailer for ancillary services provided by an entity other than the party liable for the sales tax, it might be contended that the arrangements described are not contrary to 'he intention of the legislation. The provision of independent services to the retailer by an entity other than the taxpayer liable for the sales tax may be made for valid commercial reasons not necessarily associated with a scheme for minimising sales tax payments. It is not possible to furnish a reliable estimate of the additional revenue that would result if service charges were added to the last wholesale price for the purpose of determining the value of goods on which sales tax is payable. 
The question of amending the law to vary the present provisions raises a number of complex issues and is currently under consideration. 
The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
Published sources indicate that Kaiser Steel Corporation of the United States acquired 40 per cent of Hamersley Holdings Pty Ltd in 1963. When Hamersley was converted ' into a public company in 1967, it was reported that Kaiser took up approximately 36 million 50c shares in the new company for a total consideration of approximately $18m and  reduced its interest in Hamersley from 40 per cent to about 36 per cent. 
Published sources indicate that in 1970 Kaiser increased its shareholding to 79.38 million shares mainly as a result of the share split and bonus issue referred to in the question but also in part by contributing to a 1 for 20 cash issue at $3 per share. Kaiser was reported to have taken up its full entitlement of 3.78 million shares in the cash issue for a total consideration of some $11.3m, leaving its interest, in Hamersley, unchanged at approximately 36 per cent. On the basis of the figures given above, Kaiser paid approximately $29. 3m for its shareholding as at May 1970 in Hamersley. 
Published sources indicate that in January 1971 Kaiser offered some 3.3 million Hamersley shares at $5.17 per share to other Hamersley shareholers excluding Conzinc Riotinto of Australia and shareholders with registered addresses in the United States of America. 
and (5) No published information appears to be available about the net proceeds actually received by Kaiser from the sale of the shares referred to in (3) above. 
Because of the secrecy provisions of the income tax law, no reply can be given to this part of the honourable member's question. 
Tables of Composition of Australian Foods  (Question No. 6367)  Mr Grassby  asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Is the publication recently produced by the Department of Health called Tables of Composition of Australian Foods causing unnecessary confusion in the medical profession because of the incompleteness of the table on page 51 which gives the cholesterol content of various foods. 
Is it a fact that this publication's table on cholesterol does not show the cholesterol content of the various types of oil and oil products; if so, why were these not shown. 
Will the Minister instruct his Department to correct this deficiency so that further confusion can be avoided and to ensure that if the levels are zero they are included. 
The Commonwealth Statistician has supplied the following information in reply to the honourable member's question: 
Estimates of the numbers of migrants who had arrived in Australia during the period January 1971 to May 1972 and who were unemployed were obtained from the May 1972 population survey. Separate estimates were obtained for (a) males, (b) married women, (c) all females and (d) all persons. 
Since the estimates were based on a sample, they are likely to differ from the figures that would have been obtained from a complete census, using the same questionnaire and procedures. The exact difference is unknown, but a measure of its likely magnitude is given by the standard error of the estimate. The standard error depends on the sample size and design and can be estimated from the data collected. However, standard errors are not estimated for all survey estimates separately. For most purposes it is sufficient to use the approximate relationship between size of estimate and standard error given in the Technical Note in the labour force survey bulletins. 
The smaller the estimate, the higher the relative standard error. Very small estimates are subject to such high standard errors (relative to the size of the estimate) as to detract seriously from their value for most reasonable uses. The estimates for May 1972 for married women and for all females were so small as to be of this kind. 
The survey estimate for number of unemployed males was 4,600 and for number of unemployed persons 7,700. The approximate standard errors of these estimates suggest that there are about 19 chances in 20 that the figures obtained from a complete enumeration would have been within the wide range of 3,000 to 6,200 for males and 3,700 to 9,700 for persons. The corresponding estimated percentages are 6.6 for males and 7.2 for persons. These percentages are subject to almost the same relative (sampling) variability as the corresponding estimates of numbers. 
Additional caution should be employed if these figures are used to evaluate movements between February and May 1972. Firstly, the May figures refer to a larger group of people, as they include those who arrived in Australia between the February and May surveys. Secondly, the average duration of residence in Australia for these people is somewhat longer for the May survey than for the February survey. Finally, because a new sample is being introduced progressively during 1972, the standard errors of the changes from February 1972 to May 1972 will be greater than usual. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The existing statutory provisions, so far as the Commonealth is concerned, in relation to non-life insurance are those contained in the Insurance Act 1932-1966. That Act does not make any provision for intervention in a dispute between a policy owner, an insurance company, and/or an insurance broker. It would not, therefore, be appropriate for the Commonwealth to take the action suggested by the honourable member. 
Yes. 
As the honourable member is aware, the Insurance Bill has been introduced since . he placed the question on the notice paper. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
See the answer I have given today to the honourable gentleman's corresponding question without notice on 20th September 1972. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth Banking Corporation has provided the following information: 
Interest on ordinary savings accounts in the Commonwealth Savings Bank is calculated on the minimum monthly balance. Mention is made of this fact in notes contained in each passbook. Deposits made on the first working day of any month or withdrawn on the last working day are eligible for interest for that month.  i(2)  The Corporation understands that other sav ings banks in Australia adopt the same basic method of calculating interest 
Within the United States of America a variety of methods is adopted by savings banks in calculating interest. Such methods include booh the use of the minimum monthly balance and the daily balance. 
The Commonwealth Savings Bank does not intend at present to convert all its branches to a computer system and adoption of varying methods in calculation of interest as between groups of depositors in different areas is not considered appropriate. 
There is a differential between the effective interest rate paid by the Commonwealth Savings Bank and the nominal rates quoted but this is the result of a variety of factors of which the difference between use of daily and monthly balances as the basis for calculation of interest is but one. There are no figures available to show the difference resulting solely from the present basis of interest calculation. 
Interest on loans for housing provided by the Commonwealth Savings Bank is calculated on monthly rests. Interest on similar loans provided by State Government Savings Banks is calculated on either of monthly or quarterly rests, while certain of the private savings banks calculate interest on monthly rests and others base their calculations on daily balances. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Subject to the control over bank interest rates exercised by the Reserve Bank of Australia with the Treasurer's approval, the determination of the rates of interest payable by the Commonwealth Savings Bank of Australia is the statutory responsibility of the Commonwealth Banking Corporation Board. With respect to this part of the question the Commonwealth Banking Corporation has provided the following advice: "The Commonwealth Savings Bank offers a range of deposit interest rates, which is kept under constant review. At the same time the Bank's policy is to keep the interest rate on its housing loans as low as possible. The ability of the Commonwealth Savings Bank to increase its deposit rates is directly related to the income it earns on its investments, including housing loans. An increase of, for example, 0.2S per cent p.a. in the interest rate paid on depositors' funds would add about $8m to deposit interest costs. This would almost certainly involve a significant increase in interest rates charged on housing loans, since a large part of the Bank's other investments are in long term securities bearing a fixed rate of interest.' 
The proposal that interest payable on deposits lodged with a particular bank should be free of income tax is not one which the Government believes warrants consideration. 
It is not considered that such an amendment to the Commonwealth Banks Act would be appropriate. One point to be borne in mind is that the Commonwealth Savings Bank does not pay income tax. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
This is a matter wholly within the jurisdiction of the various States and this information requested is not available to me. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) Six- four in the City of Sydney and two in North Sydney. 
Overall rental  cost per Number Leased square of staff Building space foot located 
2,222 756 
419 
61 
273 322 
Five. 
Savings Bank Building: Six rooms of 156, 176, 192, 378, 644 and 776 square feet  respectively. 
Engadine Chambers Building: Roof garden  of 1,840 square feet. 
Anthony Horderns Building: An area of  1,156 square feet. 
Combined Insurance House: A room  of 1,950 square feet. 
Miller Street, North Sydney: A room of 3,200 square feet, for common use by the staff of a number of Commonwealth 
Departments located in the building. 
No special arrangements have been made. 
An intensive review is currently being undertaken of all aspects of the accommodation of the Commonwealth Taxation Office in Sydney, including staff amenities. 
An Amenities Code covering standards of amenities for staff in Commonwealth offices has been approved by the Government for application in all departments. The Code, which was promulgated by the Public Service Board, provides that, wherever practicable, a room should be available for employees to eat lunch elsewhere than at their desks or work-place and that it should contain sufficient chairs and tables for those who will eat lunch on the premises. 
The practice of this Parliament is to select the  Speaker  from the party which has the majority of members in the House. In recent years there has been a practice in which the nominee of the majority Party has been opposed from the other side of the House. We did not adopt that course on this occasion, as is apparent to everybody. You,  Mr Speaker,  have not exercised the office, we have no way in which we can judge your performance in office and we do not know how you will conduct it. We know that you have served long in this Parliament; we know that you know the volatility of this House; we know your own periodic bad temper; and we know your ever ready flow of wit. Indeed, I took your first utterance as wit when you found it necessary to tell the Parliament that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  was not right'. 1 hope that will be seen as a happy augury of impartiality. We on this side of the House will co-operate. We will not interject while you are speaking, provided that you do not speak for too long. We will be courteous at all times, provided that you do not provoke us. Further, we will be parliamentarians at all times, no matter what the circumstances. From you,  Mr Speaker,  we expect objectivity, fairness and a recognition of the centuries old convention which established the office of  Speaker  as one of impartiality, representing the whole of the Parliament - not any part of it, any section of it or any party within it. 

 Mr Speaker, you have been elected by all members of the House of Representatives. The decision today was unanimous. I hope that in your position you will retain the unanimous support of all members of the House of Representatives in the period that you occupy the office of  Speaker  - and I hope that that will not be very long. You have seen a great many occasions when interjections have occurred. You have participated a great deal in those interjections. As the Prime Minister has said, very often you have restored the temper of this House. I hope that you will be able to retain your sense of fun and make it consistent with your conduct of the House. We will do all that we can to assist you. We wish you well in the conduct of the Speakership which is a most high office. 
I desire to inform the House that the Parliamentary Liberal Party has elected me as its Leader, the honourable member for Flinders  (Mr Lynch)  as  Deputy  Leader, the honourable member for Henty  (Mr Fox)  as Opposition Whip and the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  as  Deputy  Whip. 
On behalf of the Australian Liberal Party, the Opposition, I endorse the remarks made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  about the former members of this Parliament whom we are remembering today. One of them,  Mr Thomas  Patrick Burke, was a member of the Australian Labor Party, as the Prime Minister has said. He was identified by the late  Mr Chifley  as a man with a contribution to make and was encouraged by  Mr Chifley  to play an increasing role in the Australian Labor Party at the time. He achieved a position of influence in the Party sufficient to gain him quite significant support as a candidate in the leadership contest against the late  Dr Evatt  in 1954. He always rigidly adhered to his high principles and political philosophy in spite of the stormy conflicts into which this adherence frequently led him. He made an active and full contribution to the Parliament in the 12 years he was a member and was also active in outside community activities. 
I have a particular interest in speaking of Tom Burke. I first knew him in 1943 when he was first elected to this House; I campaigned against him unsuccessfully in that year. I knew him in the interim period, but I next had a close association with him in 1951 when I stood as the candidate for the Liberal Party against Tom Burke in the electorate of Perth. On that occasion it was a double dissolution election. There were some closely contested electorates and the electorate of Perth was one in which the voting was extremely close. It so happened that I led on first preferences but was defeated on the distribution of preferences, if my memory serves me correctly, by 114 votes. I extend our sympathy to his wife and to his sons and daughters and I wish well his son who is now serving as a member of the Legislative Assembly in Western Australia, as was mentioned by the Prime Minister. 

 Mr Jack Mortimer became the member for Grey at a by-election in 1963. He won again in 1963 and was defeated in 1966. I remember him very well. I think it is fair to say that he endeared himself to members of both sides of the House, including those who campaigned against him in the by-election in the iron triangle of South Australia, as a gentle large man. I have no personal knowledge of this, but I am informed by honourable members on my side who knew him well that he had a reputation as a gun shearer. Certainly, he retained that tanned, lean look of the outback character and the fact that he met his death in the northwest of Western Australia did not come as a surprise to those of us who knew him.  His  determination in making speeches and - I am sure honourable members will remember this - the slow grin he used to silence interjectors will be remembered by his friends in this House. 
The Honourable William James Frederick Riordan was a different man. He served in this Parliament for 30 years. He was a very big man, as I recall him. I served in this Parliament with him. He was a member of the last Labor Administration.  His  uncle had held the seat of Kennedy before him and had been influential in the coming to leadership of  Mr Curtin  in 1935. Members of his family were connected with politics and, as the Prime Minister said, served the public. He was a committed parliamentarian. He became  Chairman  of Committees and was actively and constructively involved in inter-parliamentary affairs, on which he represented Australia overseas. He was an earnest man. He made a solid contribution to the public life of this country as a Minister and as a member of this Parliament. Many members in this chamber will remember him, as 1 said, us u big man physically and as a sincere man with a friend y smile for all who walked through the corridors of Parliament House, regardless of their political party. We pay our respects to his memory and extend our sympathy to his sisters. 
The Honourable Harold Victor Campbell Thorby represented the Australian Country Party. I did not know him, but he played an active part in the New South Wales Legislative Assembly for 8 years during the 1920s, the latter part of which was a difficult time, and as a Minister in the State House. In this Parliament, he represented an electorate for 9 years in the 1930s - again, a difficult decade - and he remained here until he was defeated in 1940. He was State Minister for Agriculture before entering Federal Parliament and held a number of portfolios in the Federal Government. I am informed that he was  Deputy  Leader of the Federal Parliamentary Country Party for 3 years. Outside the Parliament, as a farmer and grazier he entered into and made a valuable contribution to primary industry affairs, particularly through the Farmers and Settlers Association and the Graziers Association. He was a man of strong views, which he would state forcefully and with confidence, and his devoted work in the interests of the citizens of Australia entitles him to be remembered with respect. 
I support the sentiments expressed by the Prime Minister and wish to associate the Opposition with them. It is a most rare occurrence that this House on the one day notes the death of 2 former Presidents of our great ally, the United States of America. It would be the wish of all my Party that the closeness of our alliance be maintained and sustained. Harry Truman, 33rd  President,  was best known for his contribution to international affairs during his presidential service from April 1945 to January 1953. Many may have agreed with him, described as he was as 'the little man from Missouri', when he said of himself: There must be a million men better qualified than I' as he acceded to the Presidency of the United States. It portrayed his modesty, and those who agreed had failed to see the quality he possessed and later showed the world. He undoubtedly grew with his job and made a very great contribution to the world as we know it today. 
A common man to the end, with no sense of personal grandeur, he nevertheless exhibited a great strength in decision taking and firm leadership when he believed he was right. His order led to the bombing of Hiroshima and Nagasaki. History will always argue about his decision, but there can be no doubt that he made it believing it to be right. Its ramifications could not have been fully apparent to him then, or to the rest of the world then, and it remains to us the manifestation of the ferocity of science and its sheer power. We earnestly pray that no human being will ever again face such a decision. Yet, in contrast, his strength and foresight led him to commit his country to the policies of the Truman Doctrine and to the Marshall Plan - the massive economic reconstruction of Europe - costing the United States up to $12,000m from 1948 to 1951 alone, at a time when Europe was literally at its knees. This Marshall Plan was aptly described as 'the most unsordid of unsordid acts in American history*. It saved Europe and it made Europe, and it created in Europe a force for world advance which we know today. 
The historian Arnold Toynbee wrote that these mammoth projects of economic assistance, without any precedent in history, would be remembered as the signal achievement of the age. That was the opinion of Toynbee. Truman's domestic achievements have not been so well remembered. His Fair Deal was bold, liberal and far sighted, but much of it was frustrated by Congress. Harry Truman combined wisdom and strength with integrity and humanity. He suffered at times great personal vilification, but his achievements will live in history. He said at the end: 'I tried to give it everything'. 
Many of us in this chamber have met Lyndon Baines Johnson. No President of the United States has been closer to Australia and Australians than was Lyndon Johnson. We accepted his hand of friendship which as a big man he offered. We accepted his belief in Australia when he said in Melbourne: 
Your insight into Asia, your geographic position, and the integrity of your people have brought you to the edge of an era - the Pacific era - of infinite possibilities. Those of us in America who look west - and those in Asia who look east - will find a crossroad in Australia. 
He was a liberal and reforming  President  who attempted to create a Great Society. He had very significant domestic achievements. He launched a war on poverty and unemployment. He relentlessly pursued civil rights reforms, including the Voting Rights Act of 196S, and he launched a massive programme of aid to schools and universities. 
However, the bitter controversy over the Vietnam war that raged around that  President  submerged in our memories some of those achievements. He led a great nation in one of its most difficult periods. At the time of his death I said that his personal agonising over that war reflected his deep humanity and that humanity was a testimony to his greatness and no doubt was a major contributor to his early death. No man has borne greater personal burdens for the sake of his country. This country should remember him and will remember him as a great world leader. He came here twice as  President,  as the Prime Minister has said, and by those actions he set the seal on his friendship for Australia and his determination to maintain the closeness of our alliance. 

 Mr Pearson, by his stature and efforts, gave his country Canada a new and significant role in international relations. Domestically, he achieved a significant programme of reforms, particularly in the fields of social services and legal rights. This was in spite of a precarious majority in his Parliament. Indeed, at one stage I think it was a minority government. He had the courage to take and carry through unpopular decisions when he thought they were right and in the national interest. He grappled with the problem of the French separatists and the culture clash that was polarising his country.  His  achievements in the move towards bi-culturalism alone were enough to make him an important leader in the history of his country but it is as an international diplomat and statesman that he is better known. He was the key adviser in the San Francisco Conference in 1945.  His  contribution to the development of the United Nations Charter was comparable to the. significant contribution of our own Australian,  Dr Evatt.  He played an important role in the partition of Palestine in 1947. He was a chief negotiator of the Korean truce and in 1956 his hand guided the super powers towards the peace that followed the Suez crisis.  His  efforts were recognised by the award of the Nobel Peace Prize in 1957. He was commissioned by the World Bank to do a study of underdeveloped countries.  His  report: 'Partners in Development' was a major contribution to thinking in this field and continues so to be. Lester Pearson became an outstanding Canadian and international statesman yet he retained a great sense of humour and a real humanity. 
Each of the men we remember were best known tor the roles they played in international affairs. Each had a great liberal domestic aspiration never fully realised. Each was able to take strong unpopular decisions in spite of current pressures because they believed they were right. We stand respectful in the memory of these great men. 
 Mr Speaker,  I congratulate  Mr Scholes  on his appointment by this House as  Chairman  of Committees. We did not propose any candidate against him for we believe that, until we see him performing in the Chair, there is no warrant on our part to depart from the practice that the majority Party should provide the  Chairman  of Committees. We remember, however, the performance of the honourable member for Corio in the Standing Orders Committee on which I had the honour to serve with him. I then formed a very real impression of the commitment he has to Parliament as an institution serving the Australian democracy and I look forward to the continuance in his position as  Chairman  of Committees of the same instinct he showed on the Standing Orders Committee. I wish him well for the future. 
I now ask the Prime Minister, as I asked him several times directly and publicly last year without answer: Is he bound in making his policy decisions by all of the platform, constitution and rules of the Labor Party as approved at the Launceston Conference in 1971? If the answer is yes, does he, just as an example, intend to ensure adequate representation of trade unions on boards, commissions, trusts or similar government created bodies and in the managements of banking and insurance, mass media, communications and transport, natura) resource development and secondary industry, which is required by that platform? Does adequate representation mean that suitability will be an irrelevant consideration? 
I ask the Prime Minister: Is it not a fact that all Ministers of the Government are members of the Cabinet? Do all Ministers as members of the Cabinet put themselves in a position where they must have available to them security information? Do not Ministers rely on their staffs for paper handling and filing? For example, does not the Prime Minister himself rely on his staff? Will he in the public and the national interest require clearances at an appropriate level for the staffs of all Ministers? If he is unwilling to take this course will he personally decide which papers have a security content and not distribute these papers to Ministers unwilling to have their staffs cleared? Will he say which Ministers are unwilling to have their staffs cleared? 
I give notice that at the next sitting I shall move: 
That this House censures the Government for jeopardising Australian security and injuring our reputation as a reliable ally by: 
vacillating on Australia's troop commitment to the Five Power Arrangements, thereby calling into question Australia's commitment and 
the action of the Prime Minister in making public information concerning Australia's security, for the purpose of relieving the Government from pressures exerted on it to withdraw all troops, contrary to its stated intention, by persons both in the Government and outside the Government, and foi failing to adhere to the Cabinet system by permitting statements by Ministers about matters outside their own ministerial responsibilities, and which are offensive to other countries. 
I move: 
That this House censures the Government for jeopardising Australian security and injuring our reputation as a reliable ally by: 
vacillating on Australia's troop commitment to the Five Power Arrangements, thereby calling into question Australia's commitment and 
the actios of the Prime Minister in making public information concerning Australia's security, for the purpose of relieving the Government from pressures exerted on it to withdraw all troops, contrary to its stated intention, by persons both in the Government andoutside the Government, and for failing to adhere to the Cabinet system by permitting statements by Ministers about matters outside their own ministerial responsibilities, and which are offensive to other countries. 
The recent actions of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the Government deserve the censure of this House. The Government has a mandate to govern according to the tenor of its proposals made before the elections. It represented itself to be responsible; its mandate requires no less. We will not obstruct policies which we believe Australians want and for which a mandate exists. Equally, we will not stand by passively and watch the Prime Minister and the Government eroding our defence capacity, our relations with trusted and valued allies, our international reputation and our fundamental democratic institutions. The Government has no mandate for a derilection of duty. 
It is most unexpected that a Government should have acted so badly so soon after its election - a performance so poor as to deserve censure in the first week of the new Parliament. Our allies were led to believe that Australia would support the. Five Power Arrangements. On 5th February the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  repeated the policy promise that the Government had decided to honour the full terms of the Five Power Arrangements and that this had been confirmed to Lord Carrington, British Defence Minister, on his visit to Australia. 
Lord Carrington said - 
We have come to the conclusion that despite this action we think the Five Power Arrangement is worth going on with and it makes sense and we shall do so. 
Lord Carrington added, however, that Britain would have to re-open the whole question of its commitment if Australia withdraws all its troops. The phrase 'honour the full terms' clearly means more to the British partners in the Arrangements thanit does to the Labor Party. Clearly Britain at least is unsure of what is intended by the Australian Labor Party and continues to plan for the future while the ALP power struggle on this issue continues. The Governor-General's Speech reaffirming the intention advances the understanding no further. 
On 5th February 1973 the Minister for Defence said that he had always indicated that there would be a need for some continuing Australian logistic and training assistance in the area after the withdrawal of the battalion and battery. This force, he said, would also embrace personnel to facilitate the joint training and exercising which would be an important part of Government policy in relation to the countries of the area. 
The next day, at a Press conference,the Prime Minister confirmed his statement made at an earlier Press conference on 30th January that 500 to 600 troops will remain in Singapore. The statement by the Minister for Defence yesterday, in answer to a question, is at variance with that statement of the Prime Minister. I quote the Prime Minister: 
I'm surprised that there's been a great number of figures given as to the number of soldiers that will remain. I was asked last time whether there'd be 500 or 600. I said 'yes'. That's the total number, and that's all forces. 
That is as clear and unequivocal a comment as a Prime Minister can make. The very next day it was reported that Left wing Labor members of the Parliament wanted to challenge the Prime Minister and the Minister for Defence about the Army support force to remain in Singapore. 
It may not have been by coincidence that on Sunday, 11th February, 1973, an article written by a respected gallery journalist,  Mr Fred  Brenchley of the 'National Times' said that the support element to stay in Singapore would include personnel manning a secret intelligence unit. He said that this electronics intelligence unit had been a major factor in the Whitlam Government's decision to retain between SOO and 600 defence personnel in Singapore despite the withdrawal of the Austraiian battalion. Brenchley wrote: 
That Defence officials were understood to have told the Government it was not possible to replace the Singapore intelligence unit by using alternative sites until 1975; that the unit had 160 personnel; that it had 10 New Zealanders in its ranks. 
It was apparent that  Mr Brenchley  was helped with information for some deliberate purpose. At the same time the Prime Minister was feeling the pressure of the forces of the ALP who were hostile to the concept of any troops in Singapore. This power was shown up in the Victorian Council of the ALP which met on the very day the Brenchley article appeared. The Council endorsed a motion from its leftwing faction which 'noted with regret' statements by the Minister for Defence 'concerning the retention of a large number of support troops in Singapore'. 
The motion said, among other things: 
Bearing in mind the tragedy of Vietnam, we are most concerned at the possible effects of continuing military commitments in Asia or elsewhere. 
We are also of the view that the Singapore Government is anti-democratic and that Australian military association with Singapore is incompatable with Labor principles. 
The Prime Minister had defended the stationing of some Australian troops in Singapore as being consistent with the constitution, platform and rules set out at the last Federal Conference of the Australian Labor Party in Launceston. The Prime Minister is unequivocally bound by those documents. He admits that his policy decisions are subservient to them. 
The motion was part of a general strategy of the left wing of the ALP to get a neutralist non-aligned Australian policy in expectation of the Federal Conference rejecting the American alliance and other overseas commitments by Australia. The Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  who, after the  Deputy  Prime Minister, comes third in order of precedence of the Australian Government, said in relation to the Victorian Council resolution: 1 agree with the motion which I consider was moderately worded and sensible. 
Apparently it was moderately worded to say that the Singapore Government is antidemocratic; it was moderately worded to say that Australian military association with Singapore is incompatible with Labor principles; and it was sensible to state those things in direct opposition to what had been said by his own leader and Prime Minister. It was contrary to Government policy for the Minister for Overseas Trade to have said those things, but it was to be expected that he would say these things. Nothing, however, was heard from the Prime Minister, despite his dictum that only the responsible Minister will make statements on foreign affairs. If this was not a statement on foreign affairs, can one imagine what is a statement on foreign affairs? If the Cabinet system were operating properly, fundamental opposition to government policy would lead to the resignation of the Minister who made that fundamental disagreement. The Prime Minister should have the courage to sack [the Minister for Overseas Trade. He has neither the courage nor the power to do it. In the critical areas of our foreign policy, those involving our credibility as an ally and our belief in the right of nations to choose their own form of government, the Prime Minister has been noticeably reticent to make any statements. In the face of the personal abuse of the  President  of the United States by 3 senior Ministers-r-the Minister for Overseas Trade, the Minister for Labour.  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  and the Minister for the Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass)  - when words such as thuggery, arrogance and hypocrisy were used to describe his actions, the Prime Minister could only respond, after much pressing by journalists, that 'there will be no further statements on foreign policy except by the Minister*. The Minister he referred to was himself as the Foreign Minister. What has he done to honour that statement to the Australian people after the statement by the Minister for Overseas Trade describing the Government of Singapore, an ally, as antidemocratic? The Minister for Overseas Trade publicly announced the next day that he would continue to speak out and has done so on the recognition of North Vietnam and about Singapore. The ' Prime Minister has persistently failed to silence his Ministers or even to dissociate himself from what they say. Other countries are entitled to believe that when a Minister speaks he speaks with the authority of government. 
The Prime Minister was clearly in difficulties. After the Victorian motion,  Mr Barnard  searched for ways of changing the Prime Minister's words '500 to 600' without appearing to give in to the pressures which were clear and apparent for everybody to see. The Minister for Defence said on 12th February that he had never put any figure on the number of troops who were to remain. Are we to assume that the Prime Minister said '500 to 600' without consultation with the Minister for Defence? That is what the plain meaning of the words was, that he had never put a number on the troops who were to remain and that it was a matter still under consideration. Reports stated that other Ministers revealed that the Prime Minister had not received Cabinet endorsement for his 2 statements on troop numbers. In the terms of open government, no doubt the Cabinet decisions will be disclosed to us. This was a clear attempt by the Minister for Defence to dilute the commitment of the Prime Minister. The Brenchley article had not been repeated in the daily Press. 
The events of Tuesday, 13th February 1973 shocked all experienced journalists. It was a black day for Australian government and an equally black day for the Prime Minister. On that day, the Prime Minister did not hold his open Press briefing, although in full glory he had declared that he would have one after each Cabinet meeting. Instead, he called selected journalists into his room. He put them through a race. He said; 'You can come in, but you cannot'. He then gave the selected journalists in his room classified security information about an Australian defence intelligence system which is regarded by defence experts as critical to this nation's defence requirements. All persons possessed of this knowledge have an explicit duty not to disclose the information which the Prime Minister disclosed. There is a clear formula to follow when asked about security information. That is to refuse to confirm or to deny. If a secret is to be held, who possesses it must remain secret. If there is a denial of it, people can put together the positives by assembling the negatives. 
The foreign cable services were excluded. This Press briefing was for domestic consumption. Nobody knows why the representative of the Australian Broadcasting Commission was shut out. Also excluded were representatives of radio and television services. But they found out. We then heard on radio and television services, reports to this effect: The Prime 
Minister has revealed the existence of a defence intelligence network and has claimed the troops will be kept in Singapore in order to disguise them'. The information had received publicity as planned - so unfortunately did the source of the information receive publicity. That was the briefing by the Prime Minister. When a Prime Minister buys domestic political relief at such great cost to our national interest and to his own reputation he deserves the censure of this House. 
The Opposition regarded the matter so seriously that I put to the Prime Minister a series of questions which I believe he had a responsibility to answer. The questions, all of which remain unanswered, were set out in a letter to the Prime Minister. I ask for leave for those questions to be incorporated in Hansard. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Defence, Minister for the Navy, Minister for the Army, Minister for Air and Minister for Supply. Is the honourable gentleman aware of a statement made by  Mr Clem  Lloyd yesterday, I understand in the late afternoon, that the honourable gentleman's version of the resignation of  Mr Lloyd  from his staff was completely untrue? Did this refer to a version given by the honourable gentleman earlier in the day in Hobart? Does the honourable gentleman agree that the version he gave was completely untrue? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Defence. The honourable gentleman will recall that he has just tabled a document. I note that it is signed by A. H. Tange, Secretary, 1.45 p.m., 6th March 1973. It is on the minute paper of the Department of Defence and it reads, in part: 
I noticed the suggestion that one of 2 members of the Minister's staff be included. 
I remarked that this was, in my experience, not usual in an international negotiation. I had in mind also the obligations existing between the 2 Governments that discussions on certain fields of Defence information would take place only in the presence of persons who had been especially briefed about the subject matter. I saw as a contingency that the- 
The Liberal Party in Opposition will follow a positive course. We will not merely oppose. We will put forward alternatives. We will try to improve legislation as it comes before the House. We will be cooperative in the conduct of the business of the House and expect co-operation to be accorded to us. We will acknowledge the Government's positive and beneficial actions when they occur. We will oppose those policies and actions of the Government which we believe are not in the interests of the people. Our opposition will be selective. Where necessary it will be uncompromising and unrelenting. Our scrutiny will be detailed and thorough. We will react decisively as we have done already to policies which buy domestic political peace at the price of national interest. We believe the interests of this nation will be best served by our developing our role as an alternative government. As time progresses we wish not only to show that the governing Party is inadequate but to prove ourselves better. In pursuit of that course I have since my appointment as Parliamentary Leader given priority to the all important task of building an opposition structure which will fit us for government. We have promised Australians that we will re-examine our policies and rebuild them on the basis of Liberal philosophy, superior as it is, to socialism. 
We are organised to receive the benefit of the best minds in this community from commerce, from industry, the universities and other tertiary and specialist areas to assist us with our policy development. We are reestablishing the bridges to all sectors of the community. The organisational wing of the Liberal Party, the branch members, the women's sections and the Young Liberal movement will have a greater role in policy advising. I emphasise 'advising'. It is abhorrent to our Party as it must be to all concerned Australians, and members of the Parliamentary Labor Party, too, if they made known what was really in their minds, that no group should have the power of direction over the people's elected representatives in this Parliament. We have achieved a close working relationship with the Australian Country Party. In spite of attempts to dramatise and exaggerate the difficulties we are different parties. We have differences of emphasis and approach. But we are basically agreed on what is good for this country and we will work for that day when we again establish a coalition in government. My duty will be to pit the Opposition against the Government and 1 will not be distracted from that task. 
In 1972 by capturing some middle ground the Australian Labor Party won the right to govern. It achieved this by the development of some new policies but largely it was by the manipulation of symbols and the exploitation of that community feeling that democracies are best served by giving the other party a go. The ALP won a mandate to govern. But to suggest, as the Government does in the Speech of the Governor-General, that all their statements are endorsed - in fact demanded - by some sort of mystical will of the people is unreal and nonsensical. To write so grandly that 'delay would mean damage to the nation or unwarranted neglect of the people's wishes and mandate' or to refer to the program the people have instructed them to implement is pompous self delusion. Some Australians were convinced by the brave words of Labor. Now they will judge the Government by results as they earlier judged the parties by their promises. Already there is tension of an extreme degree in the Government. 
I am surprised that the ALP would want to raise before people's minds; however erroneously, as it did in the Governor-General's Speech, the relationship between the people and the Government. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in this House last week in the first question he answered as Prime Minister unqualifiedly acknowledged his Government's and his own subservience in policy matters to the Party machine. Today his  Deputy,  the Minister for Defence, Minister for the Navy, Minister for the Army, Minister for Air and Minister for Supply  (Mr Barnard)  disagreed with him publicly in this House. With a boldness born of his current despair the. honourable gentleman said that he cared not for the opinions of the machine. That was an aberration he will regret and, I forecast, he will correct. We know the community will be ignored by the Labor Government. It is not the people instructing the ALP, it is the machine. If the machine says 'destroy alliances with our friends' the Government must destroy them. The Government has acknowledged that. So much for the democratic theory of the socialist party. What a mockery of the assertion in the ALP policy speech that it has as a great aim 'to involve the people of Australia in the decision-making processes of our land'. 
Government supporters know that the decisions will be taken in Surfers Paradise in July. They have acknowledged it through the voice of the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Barnard)  of this country. The Labor Party promised greater participation in decision taking - more democracy. Then it set up a 2- man government of a kind this country has never seen and does not want to see again. The Prime Minister held 14 portfolios and the  Deputy  Prime Minister held 13 portfolios. 
The only thing that can be said of it is that giving the Prime Minister more portfolios than the  Deputy  Prime Minister had a nice sense of propriety as between the Prime Minister and the  Deputy  Prime Minister. It was said at the time that often they conducted their Cabinet meetings whilst walking across the lake to Parliament House. It soon became apparent by later difficulties when a Cabinet was formed - and the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson)  who is seated at the table will be well aware of this - that the reasons for the plethora of decisions at that time was to prevent Cabinet involvement in taking decisions. That was the only reason they were taken. It had nothing to do with urgency of policies or mandates or anything else. It was the purpose of the Prime. Minister and the  Deputy  Prime Minister to deprive those people who they thought would oppose them from the opportunity to do so. The relationship between the Prime Minister and the rest of his Party was rather like the relationship between the farmer and the turkey until Christmas time. Government supporters promised equality of treatment for all Australians. Then they set about the most prejudiced and biased pursuit of trade union interests at the expense of other groups and the community at large. Their fine words about conscience and personal freedom were believed by many when they talked about compulsory military service. Now, in blindness to personal freedom and individuality, they force by abuse of their economic power compulsory union service for their low purpose of rewarding their political power base. 
Government supporters talked about cooperation with private enterprise, yet they hand out discriminate economic rewards and penalities according to such criterion as capitulation to trade union demands. They talked about eliminating industrial conflict, yet they enter the arena themselves totally committed to one side, and there has been no diminution of the strike rate since they entered into government. They promised good government, yet great decisions, such as that on currency, are taken after a telephone chat between the Prime Minister and the Treasurer  (Mr Crean),  without even consulting relevant senior Ministers. The relevant Ministers made it clear that they objected to not being consulted. But then the denouement came. The Treasurer made it clear that no decision was taken at all. The fact that our currency appreciated by 10 per cent against the United States currency was represented as being no decision at all. How does that relate to the promise of good government? They promised good government, yet they are spending us into a huge deficit with apparent unconcern about the impact on economic management and the principles of public finance. 
The Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns),  seeing an incapacity to fulfil promises, has resorted to the incredible claim that it is all the economy's fault. He is the only person in Australia who holds that view. Government supporters promised control of inflation, yet for political reasons they attack the problem with one arm tied behind their back. That arm tied behind their back is the one concerned with costs. Many countries have had incomes-prices policies. This Government is unique in world history in believing that a prices policy alone will suffice. It does this in its eagerness to pamper its power base - the trade unions and their powerful leaders. 
The Government promised us the maintenance of our alliances. The offensive statements of 3 senior Ministers - the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  the Minister for the Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass)  and the Minister for Overseas Trade - and the conduct of the Prime Minister and the  Deputy  Prime Minister have imposed totally unnecessary strains upon our alliances and our friendships. We were to play a great role in the region. Under the Liberal Government, Australia was respected for its reliability, sophistication and wisdom. Now the Prime Minister dreams of being a home grown De Gaulle. He was ever so delicately rebuffed in Indonesia. The Indonesians were not willing to see the influence of the People's Republic of China extending so rapidly into our region. The Government promised to reduce uncertainty, yet it continues to be uncertain over currency. People do not know where the country is going. Firms cannot plan in relation to export incentives. What about interest rates and taxation measures? Some people in Government predict a degree of economic stimulus. It is like an exciting episode from Blue Hills'. Will the Treasurer or the Minister for Overseas Trade win in the next exciting episode? Who will win that battle? What is the role of  Dr Coombs?  Who is the Prime Minister's economic adviser - the Treasurer, the Treasury,  Dr Cairns  or  Dr Coombs?  The Government is creating uncertainty and is uncaring about the effects of that uncertainty. 
The Governor-General's Speech promised basic changes in the administration and structure of Australian society in the lifetime of this Parliament. There are reforms to be achieved and changes to be made. Our society is dynamic and works its own changes at a pace which enables adjustment and prevents conflict. We want change to meet changing circumstances, changing needs. Governments must provide leadership, but we reject the aim of basic changes in the structure of Australian society over 3 years, especially when the Government has used only airy-fairy words and has not told us the nature of the changes and what it is the Government wishes to change. It has not described the process. Are basic changes in administration to mean the overthrow of the Public Service or an assault on the banking or insurance systems to which the Government is pledged in the Platform, Constitution and Rules agreed to at Launceston and to which the Prime Minister said unqualifiedly that he was bound in policy terms? Is it to mean an assault on the insurance, banking and legal systems, the society or the marriage institution? What is this attack that will change our social system so fundamentally and basically? We have been very well served by our institutions. We want them adapted, not overthrown. 
The Governor-General's Speech rhetorically urged a more tolerant, more open, more humane, more equal and more diverse society. We were not given clues as to the meanings of those words. We suspect they are empty words. What does tolerance mean in this context? What does equality mean? Does it mean massive enforced equality or does it mean equality of opportunity? If it means the latter, we agree; if it means the former, we will oppose it to the bitter end. What does diversity mean? Are we to polarise our society with a basic change? Do we import diversity into Australia? It would be a national penance to force diversity on this remarkably integrated nation. The Governor-General's Speech said of existing social and economic structures that there is a 'clear failure'. These institutions have served Australia well. They must be capable of examination and improvement but clearly they have not failed. They must be defended as well as criticised. 
The Speech referred to the primary importance attached to relations with Indonesia and the nations of the South Pacific. The term primary importance' is a misstatement. To use the term 'primary' is to misunderstand Australia's national objectives, its future path and the welfare of the Australian people. Relations with our immediate neighbours in the region are an absolute, just as it is an absolute to honour our treaty commitments and just as it is an absolute to sustain and maintain our alliances. There can be no priority as between absolutes. The Government has been prepared to allow relationships with traditional allies - the United Kingdom and the United States of America - to atrophy by placing its primary importance on the neutrality in South East Asia which will - I quote from the Speech - 'involve the phasing out of present military arrangements such as the Five Power Arrangements'. The GovernorGeneral's Speech totally ignores ANZUS. What are claimed as new and momentus directions may point nowhere in the end. Achieving the zone of peace is not even within Australia's power. We will not even be invited to join ASEAN. It is that group of nations which is responsible for the proposition and for carrying it through if it is to be achieved. We will not be there. At the same time as we stand off to watch that happen and rely on it, we allow our traditional alliances to atrophy. We allow senior Ministers to hurl abuse at our great ally and its great President. 
We are told that the Government will move with all due speed to create an independent, united Papua New Guinea, lt can insist on the country's independence but not on its unity. The objectives may very well be in opposition the one to the other. They may be inconsistent. A government may mouth the words: 'We will shed you. You must be independent', but it will not achieve unity for that new country. The timetable for self-government is fixed but not the timetable for independence. That is clearly a matter for the people of the country to decide for themselves. 
A cities commission is to replace the National Urban and Regional Development Authority. This seems a very myopic approach to regional development. We are not interested only in cities. Regional development is apparently to be the exclusive preserve of the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  and his newly formed Department. But let me make this clear in everybody's minds: Centralism is no substitute for co-operative federalism. We will support the Government if it tackles our problems with reality and practical determination. We will support its spending plans if it accounts for the economic impact of its spending and sets priorities. We will support its foreign policy if it is objective, if it is careful for national interests and if it accounts for the consensus of the Australian people. We will support the Government if it intends co-operation and not coercion in relation to the States and in relation to private enterprise. We will support the Government if it governs as elected representatives of the people and rejects the influence of its all-powerful machine. 
I paraphrase with some modifications the words of my predecessor in the office of Leader of the Opposition: 'My fellow citizens, I put these questions to you. Can we afford another 3 years like the last 3 months? Are we prepared to maintain at the head of our affairs a coalition of factions which has lurched into crisis after crisis, embarrassment piled on embarrassment week after week?' The Federal  President  of the Australian Labor Party yesterday had to send telegrams to people who he denies are different from other members of the Party saying: 'Be quiet. Wait till we get to Surfers Paradise in July; then we will fix it all, chaps. You can have your say then. Then we will tell the Prime Minister and the  Deputy  Prime Minister what to do'. The former Leader of the Opposition also said: 'Can we accept another 3 years of waiting for next week's crisis, next week's blunder?' What prophetic words they were when they were spoken. Who could have understood those words of the Leader of the Opposition to be a description of his own Party? He never foresaw it himself, but prophetic those words were and the situation which he described is exactly that which fits the Government. We will work as an Opposition to correct this situation at the first possible opportunity. 
asked the Prime Minister,  upon notice: 
Have any officers of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet been designated to perform duties at the request or direction of the Prime Minister or his ministerial staff. 
Have any persons not officers of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet performed any services for the Prime Minister or a member of his ministerial staff at the request of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Defence, Minister for the Navy, Minister for the Army, Minister for Air and Minister for Supply. When the honourable gentleman tabled in the House yesterday, a minute addressed to him by  Sir Arthur  Tange, Secretary of the Department of Defence, did he at the time, of tabling have any reservations about his acceptance of all that was contained in the document? If he did have such reservations why did he not say to the House that he had reservations? Why did he say yesterday: 
This matter is related to the circumstances as outlined in the document which is before the Leader of the Opposition and which I have tabled in the House. 
If the Minister did not have reservations at the time he tabled the document, what caused him to develop reservations within a couple of hours when he gave a Press conference? Will he now tell the House what reservations he has, if he has any? 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. Will the honourable gentleman say that notwithstanding the rejection by the Australian Council of Trade Unions Executive of the committee of inquiry into all aspects of industrial relations which was announced in the Governor-General's Speech, that committee will be established? Was the purpose of the proposed committee directly stated by the Minister for Labor as being 'to undertake a thoroughgoing examination into all aspects of industrial relations in Australia to ensure that our policies and procedures for handling industrial relations will be suitable for our needs and development over the next decade or more'? Will it be essential that union practices be investigated and union views ascertained? Will he provide the proposed committee with powers to compel persons to appear before it; otherwise, how will he ensure that information concerning union views and practices is put? 
Will the 'Prime Minister so arrange his program as to enable him to visit Thailand for the purpose of facing his accusers who have told him to mind his own bloody business? Given that the honourable gentleman has stated how -.important he regards Australia's reputation .in. the nations of South East Asia, will he explain to the Thais what led him to make the statement which so embarrassed Australians and alienated the Thais? If he , does face his accusers will he upon his return to Australia make a statement in the House .so that it may be debated, in contrast to his failure to do so following his visits to New .Zealand, Papua New Guinea and Indonesia? 
Did the Minister for Overseas Trade say last week that the Government would be depending partly on the idealism of the man in the street to invest in national development bonds, which he has in mind as a method of financing the. Australian Industry Development Corporation's vastly increased activities? Might not the man in the street see the same sense of idealism in investing in housing through permanent building societies  at  interest rates higher than those of Commonwealth bonds? Has the honourable gentleman proposed also that tax deductions or rebates may be used to make national investment bonds more attractive, and is this not just another method of increasing the actual interest rate? Will the honourable gentleman explain why tax deductions should be allowed for the form of investment which he has in mind but not allowed for housing through permanent building societies? Is the proposal which he envisages supported by the Treasurer? If it is, will he, in the interests of open government, make available the documents which he and the Treasurer have drawn up in relation to this proposal? 
 We support the Bill. We support the lowering of the age of franchise and candidature to 18 years. There has been a lot of discussion about the capacity of younger people to handle adult responsibilities. Clearly that capacity has grown in relation to political knowledge. I believe they can adequately handle the political responsibility. There has been considerable support for this reform within the Liberal Party for some time.  Mr McMahon,  the former Prime 
Minister, announced prior to the election that we were moving quickly towards this step. I made it quite clear during that period that I strongly supported the measure and expected it to operate before the next Federal election. My colleague, the Premier of Victoria,  Mr Hamer,  has introduced similar legislation and 18-year-olds will be voting in the next Victorian State election. 
The granting of the vote to 18-year-olds has always been seen to have implications over a wide range of public, legal and traditional attitudes, that is, the whole age of majority question. It was the wish of many people that a detailed and careful analysis be first carried out that has prevented the lowering of the age limit being adopted before now. Arrival at adulthood is a most significant point in the developing lives of young men and women. In most cases it can have fundamental consequences on the person's family and social relationships. Many parents will regret its arrival. Others who have established sound and understanding communication with their sons and daughters, will see in it the blossoming of independence and character of their children. There are complexities and constitutional difficulties in the definition of adulthood about which the complex modern society is concerned. Some of the questions of adulthood by which the relations of unconnected persons are affected are: the age of legal responsibility for con.tractural and proprietary rights; the question of domicile and citizenship; the age at which certain social freedoms are permitted; the age at which marriage is permitted without parental consent; the age of responsibility in industrial matters; and age limitations in respect of financial legislation. 
Throughout history it is clear that individuals - simply because they are individuals - have acquired de facto adulthood at different ages. There can be no doubt that attitudes to legal adulthood have changed sharply over the last decade. Perhaps I might add, for those who see the changes with regret or sadness, that nothing in the legal change removes a young man or woman from the influence and guidance of parents, if it is capable of being exercised through the relations of trust and reliance that have already been built. Nor should it. It merely acknowledges that young people are equipped today at an earlier age than in the past. I raise these matters not necessarily to support the contention that they all ought to be immediately reviewed or the age limitations reduced. No doubt, there are very good reasons which can be argued why the present law in respect to a number of them should remain. I do mention them as specifics which need to be taken into account in our general consideration of adulthood. The voting issue can stand alone and the franchise ought not be withheld while other social and quasilegal debate goes on in other areas. 
The rapidity with which our education system has grown to bring a vastly expanded educative level to young Australians has made it possible for us to entrust the vote to 18- year-olds. It has made them better-informed, better able to judge, more confident in their judgments, more critical in their appraisals, and on more mature terms with society around them. (Quorum formed) 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What was the total number of Ministerial staff 
approved and (b) employed in (i) clerical and (if) stenographic categories on (A) 30th September 1972, 
1st January 1973, (Q 15th January 1973, (D) 1st February 1973 and (E) 15th February 1973. 
What staff was (a) approved for and (b) employed by each Minister on each of the above dates. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. To borrow an analogy recently used, when there is a fire in the house it is not necessary to have a computer to tell the occupant what he needs to do about it. Does the honourable gentleman believe that inflation can to many people be just as damaging as a fire in a house, and will the honourable gentleman explain to the Parliament what intentions he has either personally or for the Government to take action to prevent the Australian people being brought to a stage of great discomfort and disadvantage to themselves by the incipient forces of inflation which his Government intends to allow? 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. Following the marked reduction in unemployment in February, after an improvement in January, for which his Government  claims  credit, will the honourable gentleman say which three of the major actions that he or his Government took were the ones which contributed most to that reduction? Will the Prime Minister inform the House also of the estimates by the Department of Labour and the Treasury of the number of people who would be provided with employment as a result of each of these 3 selected major acts? In answering the question, will he forgo personal invective, which does not add to the parliamentary system or the public regard for it? 
 I support this Bill. Naturally, most of what I say will be directed to the removal of sales tax on contraceptives. It goes without saying that I support the second part of the Bill which deals with the removal of sales tax from certain material used in the metrication process. However, I shall put that aside because I do not think there is any question that that is supported by the House. It was, in fact, a decision which was taken by the Government last year. I am in favour of the Bill on the grounds that families who opt to use contraceptives, and particularly those on low incomes, ought not through economic pressures to find the exercise of their choice constrained. The question of contraception does involve moral and religious questions in the minds of many people and the issue of sales tax on contraception has been improperly confused with philosophical considerations. From what I have heard of the debate today, it is clear that even in this House there is that confusion. 
Contraceptives are on the market; there is no sanction against their use. Only grounds of equity, consistency and the question of revenue-raising are relevant to the imposition of sales tax. There are also social considerations - the valid use of the tax power to exempt from certain taxation classifications goods that are otherwise within those classifications and therefore bear tax, in order to achieve social purposes. So, the use of tax for a social purpose must be taken into account. The contribution towards extending choice in family planning for low income families is a proper social consideration and I believe that the removal of sales tax from contraceptives is justified. It is a tax measure and we treat it as a tax measure. 
I should like to say, however, that the issue of tax on contraceptives has gained a symbolic significance in the cause of women which it did not deserve. It became a focus for protest and was being represented as being of much more significance to the women's issue than in fact it was. It is difficult to understand why it should have been seen as such a significant issue when it is brought down to the reality involved, namely, the removal of sales tax from contraceptives. 
A far more significant issue exists in relation to women, about which I shall speak in a moment. The lack of any great breakthrough for women by virtue of the removal of the sales tax is testimony to its lack of significance. The removal of the sales tax has not changed that about which women in the community are anxious to achieve for themselves and about which many are campaigning. 
Women are fighting a great battle of attitudes in present day social mores. Much has been achieved by women and for women to overthrow patronising and discriminatory attitudes aimed at providing full equality for women in our community. Women are becoming increasingly important in our public and economic life. This is proper because women possess half of this country's intellect and they have unique contributions to make in the public and the economic field. There is much however that remains to be achieved. 
The question of women in employment is a most complex social issue and still requires the attention of us all when considering these matters. The technological revolution has freed most women from the heaviest of domestic work, and while most - not all - feel they ought still to be home with their families while they are young, many have been well educated for a non-domestic vocation or, in fact, for a career occupation. Five to 10 years spent in a stimulating environment with job satisfaction leads many women to have expectations which did not exist with prior generations. For them, employment is seen as the best means of satisfying those expectations. Government studies have shown that just as many married women give the attainment of personal satisfaction as their reason for working as give the reason of the earning of money. That is quite understandable. The relative boredom of a daytime suburban home has thrown up the serious problem of suburban neurosis among young married women with young families and of women whose families no longer require the full time care which formerly, when they were younger, the mother gave to them. This affects the wives directly but it affects the entire family indirectly. It is a significant community problem of which we must be conscious and which we must tackle as a community. 
The boredom and frustration of some housewives give rise to a whole range of other pressures and problems which are not easily identified in relation to family life and general community fulfilment. We need, as a matter of urgency, to more actively consider the status and role of women. We need to consider the problems of women in employment, women in the home, women in relation to their role as mother and women in relation to the community in a broader sense. We need to raise for consideration areas where institutional arrangements, assumptions and practices have not kept pace with the change in community attitudes. 
There cannot be a dramatic revolution and few would want one. One of the realities of change in institutions is that the change should occur slowly to enable familiarity with the change and not create issues of conflict between those who rely upon the institutions. The more information we have as a community about these problems, the better we will be able to handle them. Apart from the very lowest income families the removal of sales tax on contraceptives will have very little impact on the status role and quality of life of women and very little impact on the net disposable income that remains. Its removal in no way advances the very basic and serious question of a woman's role and her rights which must be pursued, and pursued as a matter of urgency. It has been unfortunate that this single and marginal taxation issue has been so confused with the very deep issue surrounding women. I should not like the removal of sales tax from contraceptives to in any way be seen as the end of the process of elevating women to their proper role of equality in our community. It is unfortunate also that it has been confused improperly with the deep moral and religious issues surrounding contraception. 1 wish to speak also about the problem of the less advantaged families in our community. I refer to families which, in many instances, are increasing the number of children within them - families which are aware of the difficulties that they will encounter in giving to their children the care, education and opportunities for the future which they would wish to give. There are other families growing in numbers who do not have a realisation of the proper opportunity and equality that should be made available to their children and, for the objective observer, these families are creating a situation in which there is likely to be a perpetuation of the less advantaged people in the community. I think that in the future we will see in a more real sense the development of community centres probably centred around local government bodies. Already local government bodies have established - I hope I use the correct term - baby health clinics to which all young mothers can take their children. At present there is a very great shortage of trained professional social welfare workers. I hope that in the future there will be professional social welfare, workers whose services will be an ordinary, natural, normal addition to the services which will be available to people living in a community. I hope these professional social welfare workers will be able to do what they can to relieve the pressures that build up which cannot be handled by some people in the complex industrial community that we live in today, and in which the complexity continues to grow. People who have all the attributes of ordinary people often lack judgment to make the right decision in their own interest. These people, I believe, under professional supervision by the professional social welfare workers and a local professionally qualified medical practitioner should involve themselves with advice on family planning. 
I give an instance, of which I have personal knowledge, of a mother with, I think, 5 children who feared that she would become pregnant again. It was open to her to go to the Royal Women's Hospital where there was a family planning clinic. Unfortunately she had no-one to look after her 5 young children while she attended the clinic. A couple of people minded some of the children and she took the remaining children with her. The cost of the fare to Melbourne was a drain upon the family resources but she went. My wife was in contact with her - for reasons which I will not explain but it was related to certain work which my wife does - and it transpired that the lady had been provided with oral contraceptives. Later my wife inquired whether the woman had actually taken the oral contraceptives. My wife was told by the lady that she did not need any more because she still had some left. This raises the question that that particular person, regardless of the fact that she had been advised about it, was incapable of exercising the personal judgment and incapable of having the memory to take the oral contraceptive as prescribed. She for some reason, believed that she had actually saved by keeping some for the following month. 
I think the honourable member can imagine the end of the story. I do not intend to amuse the House. There were very tragic circumstances, not in the part of the story that I have told but in what followed within a short time. This is not the time to speak about it. 
One matter which is very important - the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Mathews)  spoke about it - is unwanted children. If I heard the honourable member correctly - he is not here at the moment, but he will correct me later, or other honourable members who heard him more directly will correct me if I am wrong - he seemed to attribute a great deal of the blame to single mothers for what he termed 'unwanted children'. He was referring to young girls in the community who become pregnant and have an unwanted child. The honourable member seemed to imply that it was necessary to provide free oral contraceptives to every young girl in the community so that she would not become pregnant. 
If the honourable member did not imply it, then I will not attribute it to him, but it is implied by a great number of people and I want to deal with this question. The plain fact of the matter is that many of these young girls who become pregnant have not the remotest idea that they are going to submit themselves to the possibility of becoming pregnant and it would not occur to them to take contraceptive action before the event because it was not their intention to have sexual intercourse. To adopt an attitude that In some way we must assume a propensity on the part of young women to do this and to make sure that they do not have unwanted children is totally unreal. 
Another aspect is that many of these young women have a natural motherly instinct and want to keep their children. There is no doubt that there is a growing incidence of young unmarried mothers keeping their children. This raises a new problem in our community, namely, that of young people who grow up in single parent families. The single mother is taking the risk that she and the children she bears and keeps will be a less privileged family. It creates a dilemma as to whether it is proper to encourage the natural mother to keep the child or whether the child should be adopted by another family. Families who adopt children are screened by profes sional social welfare workers and in most cases are more adequately equipped for parenthood than the natural mother and father. This is strange, but true. 
I take this opportunity to speak about something on which I have not heard a word from the Government, and that is child care centres. A child care centre is a very important area of the development of our social attitudes in our community- 
I will tell the Minister what I did about it. When I was Minister for Labour and National Service I initiated the concept of child care centres, a concept which showed our concern for the role of women in the work force. As Treasurer I allocated a sum of money in the last Budget for the purposes of providing child care centres. I know there is still a long way to go in this field. When we were in government we heard a great amount from the then Opposition about child care centres. But we have heard little since. 
It is terribly important that we face up to the reality that a quarter of a million children between the ages of 2 and 6 whose mothers are employed need care. We have to examine what will be the pressures of a complex community on these young people, who will be the future generations. Although I responded to the interjection made by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  I do not want to make this a party political matter because it is too important for that. 
Another matter I would like to mention is the issue of zero population growth. I believe that zero population growth is the ultimate in unacceptable policies for any community like Australia to adopt. Zero population growth involves a very real and unwarranted intrusion into the freedom and self-expression of individuals. Quite apart from that, if we look at this concept in national terms we find that there is too much of a tendency for certain people in politics - especially those people on the other side of the political fence - to believe that if some other country has a problem Australia must have precisely the same problem. It is absurd to suggest that because we may all agree that there is over population in Asia, in some magical way there is overpopulation in Australia. I believe that the Parliament will adopt an attitude of confidence in the future growth of this country. There seems also to be implied in the concept of zero population growth the argument that if we have problems with urban areas in some way those problems have been created by migrants. Honourable members opposite seem to blame migrants for urbanising Australia. 
Cut them out is what they would argue. We need to understand that migrants have contributed a capacity for us to handle the problems which have been created in the past by urbanisation. I do not even like the world 'urbanisation' because it has within it almost a premature confession of failure. I think we ought to wipe that word out of our vocabulary and speak only in positives and say that what we want is urban improvement. To cease immigration will not solve the problem. 
Has the Prime Minister at any time said, and in particular did he prior to the general election in December last say himself or authorise anybody else to say with his approval, that the strength at Lavarack Barracks in Townsville would be raised to 4 battalions and that therefore a Labor government, far from reducing the size of Lavarack Barracks, would increase the strength? 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
On what dates were conferences held between the Prime . Minister and the Premiers in each year from 1st January 1955. 
Following each such conference held in the month of January, February, or March of the year, did the Commonwealth announce any financial or other commitments, additional to those included in the preceding Budget, for assistance to the States. 
What was the rate of increase in average weekly earnings in the last, completed quarter over the preceding quarter in respect of each of the meetings in part (1). 
Was the Prime Minister aware of  Senator Murphy's  raids on the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation headquarters in Canberra and in Melbourne during the early hours of Friday, 16th March, before they occurred? If he was aware of the ra ds before they occurred, at what time and by whom was he informed? 
The Prime Minister will recall an earlier question today in which I asked whether he was aware of the raids by  Senator Murphy  on the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation headquarters in Canberra and Melbourne. In his answer he referred to 2 visits. He said that he did not know of the first one but he did know of the later one. He indicated when he said that he did not know of the first visit that he did not know of either visit on Friday, 16th March but he knew of visits on later days. I ask the honourable gentleman: Was a request made from his office or by a member of his staff for the provision of the VIP aeroplane for  Senator Murphy  at about 6 a.m. on Friday, 16th March? 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: &lt;1) How many Commonwealth employees were having deductions made from their salary on behalf of each of the Public Service Unions on the pay day nearest to (a) 1st January 1972, (b) 1st July 1972, (c) 1st January 1973, (d) 15th January 1973, (e) 1st February 1973 and (0 15th February 1973. 
What amount was collected on behalf of each Union. 
I ask the Prime Minister: Has a complaint or have complaints been made to him directly, to him through any member of his staff, or to his Government, by any member of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation about the raids - termed visits' by the Attorney-General- on 16th March by the Attorney-General with Commonwealth Police on the Melbourne and Canberra offices of ASIO? If the answer is yes, will he table the letter or other document in which the complaint or complaints were made? 
 Both of these agreements were concluded during the period when I was the Treasurer. It is therefore to be expected that I would give the agreements the support of the Opposition, and I do that. I am glad to see the agreements given the legislative basis which will enable them as a matter of law to apply in Australia. I do not know whether the New Zealand Government has legislated yet but I hope that it will do so and that the matter will be finalised. Over a considerable period of time Italy and other European countries have been calling for the conclusion of double tax agreements with those countries. It has not been possible to conclude all those agreements with the rapidity that those countries would have liked. I notice that sitting in the officials' box is one of the officers who has been engaged in the highly complicated task of negotiation. It is not possible just to pick up an officer and declare him to be a negotiator on these double tax agreements because of the complexity of them and because those officers carry with them a very important negotiating and bargaining duty so that Australia's interests will be protected and will not be subservient to the interests of other countries. 
I fully support the concept of double tax agreements even though they may be, as in the case of Italy, of a limited kind. That is all that can be negotiated at present. I look forward to the wider spread of double tax agreements. I know that the Treasury, the Commissioner of Taxation and his staff have a program for negotiating these double tax agreements with other countries. I have come across a number of businessmen in Australia, businessmen from other countries and diplomatic representatives from other countries who have expressed some doubt as to whether the present Government intends to go for ward with the negotiation of these double tax agreements. Their uncertainty will have an effect on the level of the flow of trade between Australia and those countries. Quite clearly, one of the matters to be taken into account in trading operations by private trading organisations is the significance to them of the incidence of taxation in their country of residence and in the country in which the operation occurs and the profit is earned. 
Negotiations took place last year culminating in the successful conclusion of a double tax agreement with Germany. The West German Ambassador to Australia and I signed the agreement in late November last year. I regret that there is no legislation which would give the force of law to that agreement. I hope that the Acting Treasurer will inform me whether legislation will come in to give confirmation to that agreement. I make the point that negotiations for a double tax agreement between France and Australia were concluded last year. There were reasons why that agreement could not be signed. I ask the Minister to inform me whether the Australian Government will put its signature to the double tax agreement with France. I also ask the Minister to inform me whether it is the Government's intention to go ahead with the negotiation of double tax agreements according to the order of priorities established last year by the Treasury and the Taxation Office. I know that the Minister is acting as Treasurer and that this information may not be within his immediate knowledge. I have not given him forewarning of these questions. I do not want to embarrass him. If he needs to consult his officers I will be happy to receive that information, because regardless of the effect of that information I still believe that this Bill to give effect to these agreements should go through. The Opposition will support the Bill. 
 There is no question that inflation is one of the most serious problems facing Australia today and certainly is the most serious economic problem. Inflation misallocates resources, erodes savings, puts at a disadvantage the economically weak and aids speculators and those prepared to exploit ruthlessly their industrial power. It is a cancer, eroding proper balanced and rational economic development. But it comes down to the question of how serious we, as the Australian people, are in our determination to handle inflation, how capable and genuine we are and how realistically we approach the problem. No economist would argue the proposition that price increases can be isolated and identified as an element for treatment without affecting a whole range of other questions. No policy can be undertaken on an issue without considering the reverberations of that action on the whole mix of economic, political and social factors that are affected by it. No treatment of the problem of inflation - that is, of price increases - can be properly predicated on the simplistic premise that prices can be meaningfully controlled by dealing with the question of price rises alone without dealing with their cause. But the whole Labor movement and its instrument, this Government, is doing just this. There is this myopic concentration on prices alone. Price increases have other things behind them. Is it the improper extension of profit which is the basic cause of inflation today? Are costs pushing prices, or is it competition for resources by an excess of demand over availability of commodities? Systems which deal with prices alone beg these important questions. I have repeatedly said that the Labor Party approach to inflation is a cosmetic sham. This is all the Price Justification Tribunal will be. This is from an understanding of its workings that have been stated so far. This is all that a committee of Parliament on prices will be - a pretence at dealing with the problem. 
What are the causes of inflation today? Anybody who thinks that rising prices have been the result of capitalistic greed might contemplate figures drawn from the White Paper on National Income and Expenditure. Wages and salaries between 1969-70 financial year grew from about $ 15,500m to about $20,000m in the 1971-72 financial year - an increase of almost one-third in the base figure. In those 3 years company income declined in absolute terms. If we look at a comparison between wages and salaries and supplements as a percentage of the national income we have some indication of what is happening. The National Accounts Statistics reveal that in 1948-49 wages, salaries and supplements accounted for 60 per cent of national income. In the financial year 1971-72 it was 70 per cent, an increase of 10 per cent during that period. The table of figures which 1 shall seek leave to incorporate in Hansard shows the increases in average weekly earnings in comparison with movements in the consumer price index. It shows how increases in average weekly earnings over the last 15 years have been dramatically higher than the consumer price index movements over the period and particularly in recent years. I have a table which gives the figures from 1956-57 through to 1971-72 with movements in the consumer price index in one column and average weekly earnings per employed male unit and the percentage increase on the same period of the previous year. I seek leave to incorporate this table in Hansard. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! ls leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
Mi SNEDDEN- I thank the House. (The document read as follows)-' 
'Labor Party apologists keep attempting to distract from the issue by insinuating that the Opposition blames increases in wages and salaries as the sole cause of our inflation. This is not true. Neither 1 nor any member of the Opposition has said that. I have said that wages are the prime cause of our current inflation, and the orthodoxy of respectable economic opinion totally agrees with me on that proposition. It is only members of the Labor Party, because of their power position, who are unable to make that objective statement. They know it, but refuse to acknowledge it. The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, in its survey on Australia recently published, said: 
The basic cause of accelerating price inflation in recent times has undoubtedly been accelerating wage inflation, first mainly, through wage drift, and then from late 1970 increasing through wage awards by arbitration authorities. lt continued:  . . concern with inflation will need to move to top priority in the Federal Government's list of economic problems. 
In those 2 statements clearly the OECD is saying that the Federal Government must be concerned with accelerating wage inflation. Each utterance gives new momentum to the process which exacerbates wage inflation. Of course this comes as no surprise to us. The lack of objectivity of the Government was tangibly demonstrated right throughout last year's election campaign. Its pamphlet, which was entitled: 'It's Time - Prices' was a prime example. It said: 
Prices go up - you get fleeced at the supermarket - that's what inflation is all about. 
This is a myopic concentration on prices. The Opposition says that when prices go up there is a cause. That is what inflation is really all about. If a kettle is boiling over one does not stop it by forcing the lid down; one removes the source of the heat. That is what inflation control is all about. The pamphlet goes on to repeat the utter nonsense that has been used to justify a one-sided approach by trade union leaders, particularly by  Mr Hawke, President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions and Vice-President of the Australian Labor Party - with a mere echo by the Minister for Labor  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  - the fallacy that maximum wages and salaries are controlled. 
The arbitration system establishes minimums and this protects the economically weak. These minimums do not represent wages control at all. They set the base from which over award payments and improved conditions are negotiated. The Conciliation and Arbitration Commission does not control wages; it sets a minimum which is the platform from which increased wages accelerate. The wage drift is very considerable. The arbitration system protects wage earners; it does not constrain them. It was not created to hamstring wage earners; it was created to protect wage earners. To maintain that the Arbitration Commission holds down wages must cause a wry smile when we read of strikes to force higher wages and a refusal to go to arbitration. Is there not a person in this House who does not read almost daily of a refusal to go to arbitration and to force a wage or conditions increase by direct action of strike? This causes a wry smile, but it is not very funny. 
Why do trade union leaders, many in the highest positions in the Labor Party, continually say: 'We will not go to arbitration.'? They constantly do this. Why do they continually say: 'We will enforce our claims by direct action'? Have they not been successful in enforcing their claims by strike action - that is, if they possess industrial power? Only those unions with industrial power can enforce claims. What the trade union movement and the Labor Party are acquiescing in is the creation of class distinctions in this community among wage earners, depending on whether as an organised trade union they possess industrial power. Any member of the Labor Party who talks about a classless society is talking against what is being done. There is a constant willingness by the Labor Party in government and the trade union movement to ignore the claims of the industrially weak, but on the other hand to pay obeisance to the demands of the industrially strong. 
The fallacy of wage control should not have survived so long as it has, but it has been constantly put as a propaganda exercise and it has sunk into people's minds. It should be eradicated from their minds because it is the very people who are going to be harmed by inflation who are economically powerless. It was the economically powerless who elected this Government to office. The Government will ignore the proper claims of those people who elected them to office. The Labor Party is continuing to co-operate, as a government, with the ACTU in distracting attention from the current economic orthodoxy from which we are suffering - a cost inflation largely based on the wage push. This is not deniable, and anyone who claims to deny it is not arguing from fact but from the position of being commanded by the political power of unions. Members opposite have attempted to abuse our intelligence by seeking every other explanation but the real one. The most fanciful and most desperate attempt to distort the issue occurred last year when they latched on to the thesis of a discredited American academic. This is called the Johnson thesis. This thesis said that essentially inflation was caused by Americans financing the Vietnam war and by some means caused by that was exporting inflation to other countries. 
Firstly, that could relate only to demand inflation and our problem has been cost and wage inflation. Secondly, there is no explanation of how this inflation could have been transferred to Australia. But now that the Vietnam war is over what is the current Labor orthodoxy for our burgeoning inflation? What excuses will it find for it from some external foreign manifestation instead of the reality of the wage push in this country? When I was Treasurer I had the Johnson thesis examined very closely and there was just no way in which that thesis could have explained our problems. I raise it only to demonstrate the length to which the Labor movement and the Labor Party politically have gone to disguise the issue. The current approach is to look at prices alone. How can Labor pretend to manage the economy properly when it continues to ignore and refuses to treat the root cause of our worst economic problem? 
The only glimmering of an acknowledgment about the reality of wages and inflation was when the current Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  at an executive meeting of the ALP last year in Adelaide planned a policy of freezing the wages of public servants as a means of halting inflation. He may, of course, have been motivated by his anti-public servant attitude which has been expressed continually in his unsubstantiated charges against public servants. One would have hoped that it was a glimmer of reality. But I regret to say thai within hours of it becoming known that he proposed this he received an avalanche of hostile telegrams from the trade union movement and other members of the Labor Party. With the flick of a finger his crusade was abandoned because of the power that he encountered and the end of economic realities was writ clear in Neon signs. Because of the trade union base and the Government's capitulation to it, we are left with the Government dualism. There is to be action on price maximums. There is to be no action on wage maximums. 
Australians will not be fooled by a captive government supporting a free grab for the militants on wages while there is government or Labor control on prices. There have been experiments overseas on policies to control the serious inflation that has afflicted developed Western economies of the world. No other government has dreamed - not for a second has it passed through its consciousness - that it could have a one-sided policy, a prices policy, only. Whenever you hear of it, you hear of it as an incomes and prices policy and so of course it must be. I have made a number of statements on prices and incomes policies. I have publicly discussed the problems and the advantages of these policies. I examined the question of a prices-incomes policy for Australia quite seriously in an address to the South East Asia Treaty Organisation. I did not believe that our inflation was so intractable that these fairly extreme measures were required. (Extension of time granted.) 
In fact, by our alternative approach to the adoption of prices and incomes policies, us a government last year, we broke the back of accelerating inflation and we were one of the first developed economies to achieve a significant reduction in the recent rash of international inflation while still maintaining real economic growth. In the 1971 calendar year inflation was at a rate of 7 per cent. In the 1972 calendar year we brought it down to 4.6 per cent. That was an achievement which was truly outstanding in the world scene. At the same time we were able to maintain real growth in constant price terms in excess of 3 per cent. We set the platform for an increasing rate of growth in the year 1973. The Labor Government has inherited an economy in very good shape for continued growth. I regret that I have no confidence in their maintaining the health of that economy. We need to consider our position very carefully today. We need to determine whether we are interested in a short term freeze with all its problems or whether we see a new and fundamental role for the States as a permanent feature. We would need to make decisions about enforcements. One thing is certain and that is that we cannot have a one-sided policy, and that is what the Labor Party is asking us to do. 
I turn now more specifically to the question of the Committee. Our basic attitude is that we do not know how the Committee will possibly have an effect on the control of prices. We are concerned that its interference in relation to some areas of prices will cause- equity problems in relation to other areas. We do not know in what way recommendations of the Committee can exercise and influence price fixation and the market. It is a mechanism, according to the Treasurer, to assist in the regulation of prices and to try better to adjudicate the social equation as between prices and wages. But how is it to act? We do not know that. How is it to enforce its decisions? Apparently it will not directly enforce them but will do so indirectly by using the whole mechanism of the Government. 
It is blackmail, says the honourable member for Hotham, and I cannot help but agree with him. It will be a committee which is capable of terrorising. It will be a committee capable of giving lopsided results. The Committee is destined by its terms of reference not to consider the whole mix of economic and social issues and it runs the risk of sanctifying rises. In itself prices justification is an indication of the incapacity of the Labor Government to look at the issue and to come up with the right answers. 
Another point about this Committee is whether the Labor Party in government has forgotten about the separation of the powers of the legislature, the executive and the judiciary which is fundamental to our constitution. There is an attempt in the setting up of this Committee to make the legislature do the executive's job. There is no capacity for the legislature to do the executive's job. How can a committee of this Parliament have access to the necessary range of staff for research and the accumulation of information in order to make effective judgments? It will be done on a political basis, not on an objective basis. It is a frightful intrusion of executive action into the legislature. 
As  1  have said, to impose inflation is rather like being in favour of mothering. The necessity is to identify its cause and operate against it. We are extremely sceptical about the merits of this Committee. However, we will join it. The Government has the numbers. We will join it and take our place on the Committee in order to ensure that more objectivity is brought to bear on the problem of price control than has hitherto been the case in the councils of the Labor Party. We feel that we ought to exercise our influence to ensure that an irresponsible approach is not adopted to those areas of the economy which will be under the scrutiny of the Committee. We will be watching to see that there is no prejudice, no intimidation and no false conclusions. 
Inflation is the major economic problem. We have no fundamental objection to policies directed against inflation. Indeed if we were in government we would continue to take action against inflation, I would hope as successfully as we did last year. However, we reject policies towards prices alone because they are an empty sham and, as one newspaper suggested in relation to this Committee, it is an exercise in political relations - an attempt merely to show that the Government is doing something about prices'. If the Government is serious about inflation it will receive our wholehearted endorsement. It must acknowledge the causes of inflation and attempt to deal with them as real, total issues. The terms of the motion deal only with private sector prices. This is yet another closure of the eye to a specific area, because public sector costs have just as real an impact on personal expenditures and price structures. My colleague, the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  has already moved to amend the terms of reference to include the public sector. We will not oppose the motion. We-will sit on the Committee for the reasons I have given. We have no confidence that the Committee will serve any worthwhile purpose. But we will not let it terrorise, abuse or falsely use the power of government against the industrial sector of Australia, which is the sector which provides jobs and growth and is the hope for the continuing growth of the great Australian nation. We believe that the Government is both unable and unwilling to deal with the insidious evil of inflation. I believe that inflation will be this Government's Waterloo. 
 There has been no movement in parliamentary salaries since 1968. During that time there has been a very considerable decline in the spending power of members' salaries and their relativity to the incomes of the rest of the community but no reduction in their necessary personal and political expenditure. Their reduced relative income has been dramatic due to the rapidity n wage hikes and relative inflation rate. The parliamentary salary as a percentage of average weekly earnings has declined from 7.80 per cent in 1968 to 196 per cent in 1972. This has led to the need for large percentage increases to restore their earlier position. The restoration of relativities in the 1968 increase was 35.7 per cent. The increase now has had *o be more than 50 per cent. The reason is of course that there has not been the gradual improvement that has benefited other sectors in the community. Average weekly earnings have moved from $65.30 in 1968 to $104 in 1973. This has been an increase of almost 60 per cent. To keep up with those average weekly earnings members' salaries would have moved by $5,600. 
The duties of a member of Parliament are very important to the welfare of this country. Back benchers and front benchers alike must be men of quality. The Parliament provides the men to be the Executive for the management of this country. The quality ot our national management is dependent on the quality of the elected members of this Parliament. From them comes the Ministry who make the most important decisions affecting life in Australia and also the Opposition parties who try to make those decisions better. 
We do not know the detailed submissions that have been considered by the Government when they were making the decisions on this Bill, but in general terms the Opposition has decided to support the Bill. At the end of 1971 we as Government moved to increase the members' salary from $9,500 per annum to $13,000 per annum, but the legislation was not proceeded with. This was $1,000 less than the amount Judge Kerr in his report recommended, although we believed his recommendations were not excessive. There have been significant wage movements since then. We will support also the establishment of the tribunal recommended in the Bill, but we do this subject to examination of its actual provisions when presented to the House. In December 1971 we recommended the establishment of a tribunal generally along the lines proposed by the Kerr report. The major difference between the concepts is that the tribunal then proposed would have made recommendations but would not have had authority to make determinations as to salaries and allowances. The responsibility of those determinations would have rested with the Parliament. As referred to in the speech of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  it may be automatic. Hence we will look at that provision when it comes before this House. There certainly is merit in finding a system which will prevent members from suffering a dramatic erosion of their incomes over periods of up to 5 years without the accompanying public trauma, when the situation is corrected. The increases do not appear excessive; they are less than would have resulted from catching up with movements in average weekly earnings since the last increase in 196S. 
The Prime Minister, in speaking to the Bill, mentioned the commitment that has been given by the Government in relation to pensions and which will be introduced as legislation in the future. I wish to say to him now. as I have said to him outside the House, that when that matter is being considered I think it would be appropriate that the present anomaly which applies to women members of the House of Representatives and the Senate should be corrected. 
 I understand that the Prime Minister, as he has now indicated by way of interjection, agrees with me. I am glad to hear that and I look forward to that anomaly being corrected in the legislation. I support the Bill. 
 Mr Speaker- 

 - Mr Speaker, I do not want to hold up the passage of this Bill. May I have the indulgence of the House to say a few words? 
I did not realise -I should have realised, having been Leader of the House for a number of years - that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  was closing the debate, but I was thinking of the issues. The status of my friend and colleague, the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  in this House will not be determined by salary. The status of the Leader of the Country Party is that of leader of a significant party who leads a significant number of members in this House - 20, in fact. 

 - Mr Speaker, I would be glad if that inane interjector would not disclose himself to be so inane. I will start again. The status of the Leader of the Country Party, who is a friend and colleague of mine, will not be determined by the salary which is assigned to him by the Government. The status of the Leader of the Country Party will be determined by his own standing as the leader of a significant national party and the leader of 20 members of this House and 5 members in the Senate. My own personal regard for the right honourable gentleman is known generally to the House and particularly it is known to him, as we are close friends. I hope and expect that we will remain friends for many years to come in the service of the national Parliament. He has been a colleague of very great value to me in opposition and he was a colleague of very great value in government, where he occupied the distinguished office of  Deputy  Prime Minister of this nation. These things are manifest. I say them proudly in this House but, of course, they have been known as being my attitude in the past. 
But 1 owe a duty to my own Party to see that this Bill is passed. I believe that members of this House and of the Senate have been paid less than has been fair over a number of years and that this is the opportunity to correct that. Before the election I made it quite clear that I believed, whether we were to be in government or in opposition, that a salaries Bill ought to be presented early in this Parliament. I adhere to that view; I do not depart from it or retreat from it in any way. I owe that duty to my own Party and 1 will fulfil that duty to my own Party. From what the Prime Minister has said it is apparent to me that to vote for this amendment would hold up the Bill and would hold up the payment of what I believe to be a fair and proper remuneration to members of this House and the Senate. I have listened to the debate. The Country Party does not oppose the Bill except for the particular issue which relates to the status - as the Country Party sees it - of the Leader of the Country Party measured in terms of salary. I am saying that his status will not be determined by salary. The Country Party does not oppose the Bill; neither can we. I said we supported the Bill; we continue to support it. The Government opposes the amendment. We will not hold up the passage of the Bill. To vote for the amendment would have that effect. Therefore, against the background which I have just described, we will oppose the amendment. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr Sinclair's amendment)  stand part of the question. 
The Prime Minister has just said - these may not be his exact words but I do not think that he will quarrel with the meaning of them - that in the early days of his Government he authorised and directed the. Attorney-General to pursue the issue which he says was not pursued by the previous Government. At the time he made the request or gave the direction did he have any confidence in the standing of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation? Did he contemplate at the time he gave the direction that there could be an incursion into the headquarters of that organisation of the kind that occurred, with the executive police force of the Commonwealth of 27 policemen? After he learned that the incursion or raid - as it is properly described - had happened, did he direct the Attorney-General to produce to him as Prime Minister the evidence which the Attorney-General had sought at the raids in Canberra and Melbourne? Was that evidence produced? Will the Prime Minister now produce the evidence that was given to him as a result of any direction he gave? Is it a fact that what  Senator Murphy  found in Canberra was a copy of a document and that, as a result of finding it, he decided to proceed to Melbourne, being preceded by Commonwealth Police who were instructed to seal all safes and to prevent the free movement of members of the staff of ASIO? Was the original of that document found? Finally, has there been any reduction in the provision of security intelligence information to the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation since these unprecedented actions occurred? 
 The apparent purposes of this Bill are, firstly, to reduce the permissible variation from the quota specified from 20 per cent to 10 per cent; secondly, to revise the factors in a distribution by deleting reference to disabilities arising out of remoteness or distance, the density or sparsity of population of the division and the area of the division; and, thirdly, to provide that a redistribution may be directed whenever one-quarter of the electorates of a State differ from the quota by 10 per cent instead of by 20 per cent. 
The Liberal Party has given the most penetrating and exhaustive examination to the proposals and the impact they will have upon the electoral boundaries for the Commonwealth 
Parliament. That examination has been carried out by the Federal Secretariat, as the basic research element, supported by a committee of members from the Parliamentary Executive and the Parliamentary Party. In the examination they consulted all our organisational branches in the States. The report of that committee was considered by the full Opposition Executive, which made a recommendation that the Bill be opposed. The report of the executive was considered by the Parliamentary Party and we are resolved to oppose the legislation. I have set out this method of examination for I want it to be completely and absolutely clear that the views we have reached have been exclusively in the Liberal Party and based upon considerations which the Liberal Party believes ought to be taken into account. The decision we have reached has been unaffected by the attitudes of any other party. This is as it should be because the Liberal Party, having no sectional base, is, in fact, the only truly national party in the Australian political spectrum. As a national Party we owe a duty to all the Australian public, to our supporters and our members to act in Opposition to achieve the best legislative result which is possible. I shall come to the detailed considerations with factual material to support our conclusions shortly. 
First, I wish to deal with what we have concluded is the real purpose of the legislation introduced by the Labor Government and the difficulties which we will have overturning the impressions put in the mind of commentators and the public generally by a most thorough propaganda exercise extending over some years by the Labor Party. There can be no doubt that the Labor Party's real purpose is to advantage its parliamentary Party and thereby to make it easier foi the Labor Party to forge a distribution of electoral boundaries which will have the result of making its stay in office easier to maintain. It would be happy to perpetuate itself in office. 
The Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly),  who is responsible for electoral matters, ought properly to be described as the Minister for Conservation of a Labor Government. Only the most naive person could believe that the motivation of the Labor Party is that of objectivity or commitment to the democratic process. Attributed to a former Labor Minister and  Senator was  the saying: 1 don't care who votes or how they vote so long as I count them'. That attitude has not been far distant from the reality of Labor Party thinking, committed as it is to the numbers game throughout its history. Another old saying attributed to a Labor Party leader of the past, was: 'Vote early and vote often'. Against this background I cannot bring myself to believe that the honourable member for Grayndler, members of the Cabinet and of the Labor Caucus have been transported by some sense of altruism in this legislation. 
He is laughing; he acknowledges the truth of it. How could he do otherwise than acknowledge the truth of it? The argument advanced by the Government to support this measure is based on the slogan: 'One vote one value'. I do not reject that concept but I say quite specifically and unequivocally that there is no time at which that can be achieved in all its pristine purity. If every electorate on the 29th March had exactly the same number of electors, by 30th March they would have not had the exact same number of electors. They would no longer be exactly equal in numbers. Within a year there would be wide discrepancies in their numbers. It is therefore necessary to realise while it may be a fundamental objective to be sought it must be understood to be incapable of actual achievement at any time. Nevertheless the law should do what it can to as near as practicably achieve it. In relation to that objective there will be exceptions which must be acknowledged and will, upon examination, be a matter of degree. For example, can it really be argued that democracy will be subverted because we are unwilling to have the electorate of Kalgoorlie, already occupying most of the State of Western Australia, occupy even more of the State or that democracy is subverted because the electorate of Kennedy or of Darling is to occupy an even greater part of their States rather than be left as they are? The proposition that an electorate cannot be too big cannot be denied. It then becomes an issue of degree as to what lesser numbers for a noncity seat can be accepted without subverting the democratic process. I will give some figures to illustrate this point shortly. 
The Liberal Party believes that our purpose in shaking this legislation should be commenced by 4 basic principles. Firstly, that parliamentary democracy must be preserved and be seen to be preserved; secondly, electorates should as near as practicable, be equal in numbers through the expected lifetime of the distribution; thirdly, to prevent excessive sectional representation in the Parliament and, fourthly, to prevent the gerrymandering of electoral boundaries. This whole question is as complex as it is important. Debate on it must be rational, considered and objective. Instead of mounting slogans and emotive rhetoric we ought to be dispassionate in our examination of the facts, realities and practical problems. The Liberal Party has not been blinded by slogans of the Minister for Services and Property in his second reading speech. He will be distressed to learn this. We believe that Australians will see through the motives and will accept our view that the Bill should be defeated in order to preserve that very thing which the Minister has been using as his slogan - equality of treatment and, as near as possible, one vote one value. On examination of the Minister's speech it is seen to be empty of reasoned argument. It leaves the impression of political demagoguery and rhetorical distraction for which the Minister has become known. The Minister alleges a gerrymander in the current arrangements. If there is a gerrymander in the current arrangements how is it that the Labor Party is in Government? 
Massive support! The Minister believes the propagandas of election night when it was said to be a landslide. The Government was very lucky to get the majority it now has. Not even the honourable gentleman's leader, the Prime Minister, who is superb at political exaggeration has been prepared to call the present Commonwealth law on distribution a gerrymander. On the contrary, the Prime Minister has specifically refused to so call it. This is not so of the Minister for Services and Property with his Goebbels-like propaganda. The Prime Minister specifically said that a gerrymander was a gross distortion of electoral boundaries for blatant political purposes. That is what the Opposition fears in this Bill. The Prime Minister said in 1968, when in Opposition, that this was not the case with the present arrangements. Yet, of that very same arrangement his Minister responsible for electoral matters is carried away. The Minister is attempting to create the myth that opposition to his amendments will paint the Opposition as dedicated to gerrymander. This is a gross distortion of Goebbel-like character. It is untrue and it will not weaken our resolve to protect the parliamentary democracy of Australia as we see it and we are committed to keep it. 
Our purpose is to maintain, as far as is practicable and fair, the principle of one vote one value. We wish to ensure that electoral results will reflect the opinion of the majority. If the electoral processes are manipulated to serve the political interests of persons or parties it would be a denial of democracy and a travesty of the electoral process. But we are hindered, not served, by the Bill, as I propose to demonstrate. The charitable view of the attitude of the Minister and his Party is that they are in error, and please pray let us be charitable. It is an error. But as an error we still have to reject it totally. I wish we could believe it were charitable. They have not looked past the superficialities to find the best way to ensure equity and one vote one value. The Liberal Party believes that the electoral commissioners when drawing up a distribution, should have sufficient tolerance above or below the average to enable them to judge population movements to achieve equality about mid-term. 
The Bill proposes to reduce the margin above or below from 20 per cent to 10 per cent. At the same time - this is the most extraordinarily illogical attitude towards it - the Bill does not remove the instruction to the electoral commissioners that in drawing boundaries they must have regard to changes in population. That provision went in in 1965 specifically directing the commissioners to look at population changes. The 20 per cent tolerance has been there since 1902. Now there is a proposal to change the 20 per cent tolerance down to 10 per cent, but there is no withdrawal of the direction to the commissioners to take into account population changes. In other words, they direct the commissioners to do something they cannot adequately do. The 20 per cent provision, which is a permission and not a requirement, has existed for 70 years. How is it that it has suddenly become undemocratic? 
The potential movement of population is fundamental to the proper establishment of electorates. In Australia population movement is extremely dynamic. It is constantly changing very significantly. Who does not know of a new suburb? What city or town of Australia is the same today as it was  5  or  10  years ago? Is there any member of this House who can say that he knows of no new suburbs which have changed the size of the electorate greatly? Is there any town that can be mentioned which is the same today as it was in the past? But that is what we would be lea to believe. The Labor Party cannot change that fact but it wishes to ignore it in this legislation limiting the margin of tolerance to  10  per cent. If it succeeded in this Bill it would injure fair treatment and damage one vote one value. Any objective observer knows that. We can change legislation but we cannot plan people or alter their freedom to choose where they will live. There is no problem with electorates of static enrolment. However, elec-torates of shifting populations should have an adequate tolerance above or below the quota depending on whether they are declining or growing in relative size to allow for the quota to be approximated in the mid-term of the period of years in which the boundaries are expected to operate. Without sufficient tolerance the arbitrary rigidity and constraint will reduce the franchise of one individual and improperly increase the franchise of another, and that will be a specific abandonment of the principle of one vote one value. 
There really is no virtue in starting off equal, well knowing that equality will be destroyed with the passing of a short time. To do so is just pretence. The  10  per cent tolerance does not allow sufficiently for movements through the quota to maintain the best approximation to one vote one value. A number of seats had a population shift of as much as  40  per cent between the last distributions. Even with a margin of  20  per cent this led to gross under-representation within a very short period of time. The seat of Grayndler - well known to the Minister for Services and Property who represents it - had a population shift of  14  per cent. For Sydney it was  13  per cent; Melbourne  10  per cent, Wills  12  per cent and Griffith, represented by my friend and colleague  Mr Donald  Cameron, had a shift of  16  per cent. They were all drawn well in excess of  10  per cent over quota in  1968  yet they were all below quota by  1972.  From in excess of  10  per cent above quota they went through the quota to be below it in a period of  4  years. The seat of Grayndler fell to nearly  8  per cent below quota. Sydney fell to  9i  per cent below quota. 
If all divisions could be drawn so that their votes were equal they would be greatly less than equal within months. This is the magnificent Orwellian concept that the Minister has got, that some electorates should be more equal than others. For example, a number of seats between  1968  and  1969  changed their enrolments by more than  10  per cent in only one year. The  10  per cent tolerance clearly would frustrate the efforts of distribution commissioners in their responsibility of taking population into account and attempting to achieve, on an average through a reasonable period, the best approximation to one vote one value. It may be argued that this means we should have a redistribution every  3  years. Perhaps we should. But again let us be real about it. The process of redistribution is complicated and it is slow. It enrages some members always. The honourable member for Grayndler has twice had to fight off a host of contenders for a seat in a new distribution when his own had been eliminated. He did so successfully but the third time may be unlucky. 
The process of redistribution enrages some members always. It disconcerts and bores the public always. It leaves wounds in all political parties and it occupies endless time and expense of the Electoral Office. People find it hard enough to know what electorate they are in now without worrying about changing electoral boundaries every  3  years. Half of the members in this House are elected by people who do not even know the names of the members and if they saw them they surely would not vote for them. The most sensible time for redistribution is following a census, that is, each  7  years because the number of seats is determined by population, not by electors. Yet there is no reliable means of determining population except by a census. This the Minister for Services and Property discovered when he had to abandon his grand design for redistribution according to population instead of enrolment because there is no way in which you can reliably determine population in between censuses. 
Having disposed of the myth that the Labor Party is alone in seeking electoral justice we can turn to and destroy some of the other political myths that the Labor Party is throwing as propaganda in relation to this 
Bill. The Minister made strong insinuations that the Opposition has attempted in the past to manipulate boundaries for the sake of cynical political advantage. This is his constant propaganda repeated ad nauseam. Australian Federal election results have been as close as could realistically be expected to reflecting the will of the Australian voters. Wc have a great record in this achievement. Only once since 1949 has the party or group of parties with the highest percentage of vote* failed to capture government. This exception was in 1954 when office was won by the coalition parties in government at that time. Curiously, that election was contested on boundaries set by the Labor Party in 1948. After the 1948 redistribution the Labor Party lost office because what it did was to make sure that every sitting member in the smaller House got a safe seat and Labor left it open to us to come in and win an election. After that redistribution Labor said: 'We made a mistake. We will never do it again'. Labor is now in government and one of the first Bills it brings in is an amendment to the Electoral Act. Can we regard Labor as being transported bv objectivity and altruism in the name of democracy? 
The Minister claims that the Act manipulates a gigantic rural gerrymander. Certainly non-metropolitan divisions are smaller than those in major cities. But this does not work necessarily for the Liberal Party or the Country Party alone. It also works for the Labor Party in such areas as the divisions of Darling and Riverina. Indeed, in introducing the Bill the Minister in his second reading speech claimed that the Labor Party was the biggest country party. Nor is it necessarily wrong for rural seats to have fewer electors than metropolitan seats. The difference between metropolitan and non-metropolitan electorate numbers, that has been alleged to be so wide by the Minister in his propaganda, is much less than he would have us believe. 
One non-metropolitan voter in New South Wales, for instance - and there s little difference in this respect between New South Wales and other States - has a vote value equal to 1.06 compared with metropolitan voters or 1 .04 if Darling is excluded from the calculations. These figures are derived as follows: 17 extra-metropolitan divisions in New South Wales, including Darling, cast 875,069 formal votes. That is an average of 51,475 formal votes per division, including Darling. Excluding that division's votes, there were 834,369 formal votes cast in the other 16 divisions, giving an average of 52,148 votes per division. Twenty-eight metropolitan divisions cast 1,531,877 formal votes or 54,709 per division. Therefore, 51,475 extrametropolitan voters equalled 54,709 metropolitan voters. Expressed another way, one extrametropolitan voter has a vote value equal to 1.06 metropolitan voters or 1.04 if Darling is excluded. 
The principle of one vote one value is designed to prevent a geographical area or a sectional group being given a representation in the national Parliament which would enable its interests to achieve a greater influence in the mix of political decisions than is appropriate to their size. Can a vote value of .06 above their city cousins be seriously regarded as a gross democratic distortion? Are the services of a member to scattered electors, having in mind the concern for decentralisation of this most metropolitan nation, too dearly bought at a cost of .06? The Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  should support the Opposition if he is to be true to his own oftexpressed visions. He will not, though. But if he were true to what he is saying in public he would oppose the Bill. 
The Minister for Services and Property relies on a report of the Joint Committee on Constitutional Review, which, in 1959, recommended a tolerance of 10 per cent in the number of electors in electoral divisions. What the Minister did not say was that in this recommendation the Committee departed from the best objective professional advice which it had assembled and received. I quote part of paragraph 353 and all of paragraph 345 of the report. Paragraph 353 states in part: 
A merit of allowing divisions to be fixed within one-fifth limits of the quota for a State is the latitude it allows the distribution commissioners in taking account of likely population changes. 
Paragraph 345: 
The Committee considered the extent of the problems which would arise from inserting in the Constitution a requirement that no division in a State should depart from the quota for that State to a greater extent than one-tenth more or one-tenth less. The Committee was assisted in its task by the then Chief Electoral Officer for the Commonwealth,  Mr L.  Ainsworth- 
Does anybody suggest that he, a distinguished Commonwealth public servant, ever presided over a gerrymander? Paragraph 345 continues:   . . who also obtained the views of the Commonwealth Electoral Officer and the Surveyor-General for each of the States. The preponderance of that opinion was clearly in favour retaining the marginal allowance at the existing one-fifth fraction. 
The Committee in fact disregarded that objective professional advice. 
I have more recent support for my view. I hesitate to use it because the author is wellknown to be a most agile gymnast on political principles. However, I will quote what he has said for what it is worth: 
I wish to comment on the population factors, since these have been responsible for the distortion of divisions over the last 2 decades. On 18th May 1962 I wrote to you as  Chairman  of the Commissioners appointed for New South Wales in that year in the following terms: "The 2 post-war groups of Distribution Commissioners have failed to anticipate the growth of population in the far western and southern suburbs. In each distribution they have recommended divisions with enrolments only slightly smaller than the quota; but the maximum permissible number at each distribution has been exceeded before half the time has elapsed for the next distribution; and by the time of the next distribution the enrolment has been grossly in excess of the new quota and the permissible margin of allowance'. 
The permissible margin of allowance in these terms being 20 per cent. He goes on: 
In 1962 I submitted that you 'should ensure that the number of electors in the far western and southern metropolitan divisions should be now set as far below the quota for the State as the number of electors in those divisions can be expected to exceed the quota 5 years from now'. My view was corroborated by  Mr Anthony  who said, again on 26th May 1965 (Hansard, page 2095), 'It is up to the Distribution Commissioners to try to determine what the mean number of electors will be during a 5 year period and to try to ensure that it remains at about the same level as the quota'. The force of  Mr Anthony's  and my arguments is strengthened by the fact that section 19 (2) (c) deliberately uses the words 'the trend of enrolment changes'. Commissioners therefore seem to be obliged to determine divisions in the light of the mean population of those divisions over the 5 year period. 
This letter which I said I hesitated to use to support my case was written by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  when he was Leader of the Opposition. I hesitated to use it because he is a well known political gymnast on political principles. But at least that was his view when he wrote the letter. Now he presides over a Cabinet which proposes this legislation which is the direct antithesis of what he was expressing in this public letter to the  Chairman  of the Distribution Commissioners for New South Wales. 
The Minister for Services and Property quotes with reverence Chief Justice Warren of the Supreme Court of the United States in support of his position. It is true that in the same court it has been established that a margin of 15 per cent is quite acceptable. I agree totally with Chief Justice Warren that as nearly as practicable one man's vote should be worth as much as another's. That is why, in fact, I am rejecting this Bill. In referring to overseas practice to support its attitude, the Government falls into serious problems. Apparently a terrible, undemocratic gerrymander operates in the United States where under the fiat of the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States there is a tolerance of 15 per cent and slightly above. 
The Minister for Services and Property said that. Every honourable member will know that Canada in the last 3 months has magically become a country elevated by the Prime Minister as the criterion of virtue for all countries to follow. What is good for Canada is good for Australia! We in Australia will emulate Canada, according to the Prime Minister. It is interesting that Canada - this paragon of virtue - provides for a tolerance variation of 25 per cent. Apparently a nasty, undemocratic gerrymander operates in Canada -the country which has been elevated to this level by our Prime Minister. But are we to believe from the Australian Labor Party's insinuations that in Britain, where constituencies vary from between 40,000 to 80,000 electors, there is an insidious, nasty gerrymander that is destroying the democracy of that country? In fact most countries set no margin of tolerance at all. They simply require electoral districts to be as nearly as practicable equal. 
But to return to Australia: In the last 5 years about 49 divisions have experienced population changes in excess of 10 per cent, several by as much as 40 or 50 per cent. On 27th September 1972 the Chief Electoral Officer issued a certificate which said that under the current legislation there was need for a redistribution only in Western Australia. This Bill will create the need for a redistribution in all States except Tasmania. Therefore the Bill creates the need for a redistribution where no need now exists. I do not believe it is altruism on the part of the Labor Party that leads it to pursue this course for redistribution. 
In 1922 the redistribution under the Electoral Act with a tolerance then, as now, of 20 per cent serviced 5 elections. Similarly, the 1934 redistribution serviced 5 elections. The 1948 redistribution serviced 3 elections and the 1955 redistribution serviced 5 elections. 1 say again that our record in achieving majority government and approximation of one vote one value throughout our history has not been surpassed by any world standard. In fact, in the last election the Labor Party polled fewer votes in proportion than the percentage of seats it holds in this Parliament. How can it declare the previous redistribution to be a gerrymander? 
There is no present need for a redistribution except in Western Australia, and there is no reason why that should not proceed. We could not do it last year because we could not obtain the Statistician's certificate, following the census, within the time needed for the process to be carried out before the election. This Bill hinders the pursuit of one vote one value and efficiency of electoral management. Its result can only be a justification for this Government to alter electoral boundaries to suit the Labor Party. So much for the Minister's piety and his high sounding principles. This Bill will achieve nothing but artificial Labor Party advantage. 
We reject the opportunism of the Labor Party to use its power in office now to consolidate office for itself in the future. We urge everybody to look beyond the slogans and the rhetoric of the second reading speech to the realities. There has been much high-handedness and arrogance from this Government already. Let us have no more. I reject the Bill. 
Suspension of Standing Orders 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  - by leave  -  agreed to: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the Minister for Education speaking for a period not exceeding 30 minutes. 
I ask the Prime Minister: Did an inter-departmental committee meet on 2nd March last to discuss security arrangements for the Yugoslav Prime Minister's visit and other matters? Was the Department of Foreign Affairs represented? Was the honourable gentleman informed of the meeting and its conclusions and, if so, when? Are reports correct which state that the meeting decided that  Senator Murphy's  statement on Croatian extremism should not contain information at variance with statements on the subject by the last Government? What were the results of the investigation which involved the Department of Foreign Affairs? Did it lead to  a  justification for  Senator Murphy's  raid on the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation? 
Does the Prime Minister accept as accurate the report which was made by Australian Security Intelligence Organisation officers to the interdepartmental committee of 2nd March, which he saw on 16th March and from which he quoted? Has he ascertained why the Department of Foreign Affairs should have put forward the view which he stated was put forward, according to the report of the ASIO officer, and why the Attorney-General's Department should have accepted the first point? Has he ascertained why his Department did not inform him of the report? Was it his Department or somebody else who informed him on 16th March? Is it the clear conclusion from the answer that the Prime Minister has given that the Foreign Affairs Department and the AttorneyGeneral's Department conspired to lead the Prime Minister and the Government to a lie, to which he has referred? Will the honourable gentleman, pursuant to standing order 321, table the document to which he has referred? 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. Because the conspiracy which he said stimulated  Senator Murphy's  police raid on the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation was shared by the Prime Minister's own Department and his other Department, Foreign Affairs, and principally supported by the Attorney-General's Department, why was ASIO rather than the other departments singled out for the spectacular raid? Given that the Department of Foreign Affairs had the dominant role in the alleged plot, as read out by the Prime Minister yesterday in an excerpt from an ASIO document, and given the seriousness which he ascribed to it as a conspiracy, why did not  Senator Murphy  bring the matter immediately to his attention rather than allow him to hear about it by other means after the event, on his own acknowledgment, and after it had been widely reported? Why did  Senator Murphy  attempt to obtain the information he felt he needed by this method rather than by proper administrative means and in doing so avoid a charade and preserve the viability of ASIO? If the Prime Minister has not ascertained this information, as one would presume it was his duty to do as Prime Minister, why has he not done so? As the Commonwealth Police were present in the conspiracy and therefore fully involved, why was it necessary for one part of the conspiracy to raid another part of it? 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. Unless there was a conspiracy, what justification was there for  Senator Murphy's  raid on the Melbourne headquarters of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation? If it is possible that the ASIO officer misunderstood what was said, what do the other departments - Foreign Affairs, Attorney-General's and the other members of the interdepartmental committee - say? Two of those departments are the honourable gentleman's own departments. How can a possibly incorrect report by an ASIO officer support the raid on the Melbourne office to preserve information as both the Prime Minister and  Senator Murphy  have claimed? Is it not clear that  Senator Murphy  believed there had been a correct report by the ASIO officer to the extent of dispatching 27 police officers to ASIO headquarters to close all the safes and enclose all staff as they came on duty? He said that he was given information on 16th March, in the afternoon, and that he acted on the same day. What action did he take on that day and what has been the progress of the action since? Will he inform the House here and now exactly what action he has taken and what he expects to be the result of it? 
Certainly. 1 would be glad to.  Mr Speaker,  yesterday the honourable gentleman avoided a question by saying that he was taken by surprise. I am glad to know that today he will attempt to answer questions. The question is this: Unless there was a conspiracy - the term used by the honourable gentleman yesterday - what justification was there for  Senator Murphy's  raid on the Melbourne headquarters of ASIO? If it was possible that the ASIO officer misunderstood what was said at the meeting, what do representatives who were present from other departments - Foreign Affairs, Attorney-General's and Prime Minister's - say was said? Two of those departments are the honourable gentleman's own departments. How can a possibly incorrect report by the ASIO officer support the raid to preserve information, which is the reason given by  Senator Murphy  and the Prime Minister for the raid on the Melbourne headquarters? ls it not clear that  Senator Murphy  believed it was a correct report to the extent of dispatching 27 policemen to seal safes and to enclose the staff of the Organisation as they came on duty? The honourable gentleman said that he heard of the meeting on the afternoon of 16th March - that is after the raid had occurred - and that he acted the same day. I ask him: What action did he take that day to unravel this extraordinary situation? What has been the progress of the action he has taken? What does he expect to be the outcome of that action? 
 Mr Speaker,  1 wish to make  a  personal explanation. 
Yes. I claim to have been misrepresented in the suggestion by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  that the Leader of the Opposition can use words which he, the Prime Minister, must continue to use. The suggestion that he did not want to use the word 'conspiracy' and that I had forced him to use it comes as an extraordinary statement when we have seen the arrogance of the man during question time. 
The question I put was: 
Is it the clear conclusion from the answer that the Prime Minister has given that the Foreign Affairs Department and the Attorney-General's Department conspired to lead the Prime Minister and the Government to a lie. to which he has referred? 
That was my question. It was put to the Prime Minister. I asked whether it was  a  clear conclusion that there was a conspiracy. The honourable gentleman, as with almost every other question, one exception being a question about Michelangelo's David asked by the honourable member for Casey today, has sought to avoid answering questions. 
As the Prime Minister was about to sit down, having failed to answer the question, I said to him: 
What about the conspiracy between AttorneyGeneral's and Foreign Affairs? 
It was open to the honourable gentleman at that time to say that there was no conspiracy or that he was not satisfied that there was a conspiracy, or to use any other words that he wished, instead of which he used these words: 
It would certainly, on the face of it, indicate that there was a conspiracy between public servants to withhold the truth from the Parliament. 
There is no use his trying to avoid that today. 
1 move: 
That the ruling be dissented from. 
 Mr Speaker,  I move: 
That the ruling be dissented  from.  (Mr Snedden having submitted his motion in writing.) 

 - Mr Speaker, your ruling is that it is unparliamentary to say of any member of this House- -I take it,  Mr Speaker,  that you are not giving  a  privileged and special position to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  - that he should be ashamed of himself-. This is a quite unsupportable ruling. I believe that it is proper for a member of this House,'- in the course of debate or question time, to say of another honourable member 'Your actions are such that you should be ashamed of them' and then, explain why that honourable member should be ashamed of his actions.  ; 
Indeed, that is what May's 'Parliamentary Practice' indicates at page 428. It states that, if a man or. a - woman in Parliament says something of that kind, that person should be given the opportunity to explain the context in which, the statement was made. You,  Mr Speaker,  in .what I believe to be the most grievous error of judgment ever made during my period in' this House from the chair that you occupy; refused to give a man, who served for about 3 years as the Prime Minister of : this. country and who enjoys the title of right honourable as a member of the Queen's Privy Council, the opportunity to say why he believed . that what was said should have been said. Let me remind you,  Mr Speaker  - perhaps you, need, this reminder - of the context in which the statement was made. The Prime Minister has, in this House during his term as Prime Minister, constantly abused- 
He has done that, but not in the context I am using. The Prime Minister constantly has abused question time in this House. He has not answered one question directed to him, except one of which he had notice and which was a Dorothy Dixer. He constantly has refused to answer any questions without notice- 
The Opposition is a bit sick and tired of homilies which try to release the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  from a hole into which he has jumped. He is no Jack Spratt who, with a mighty leap, can jump out of the hole. He is in the hole and he remains in the hole until he unqualifiedly withdraws. There is no point in his saying, after a lecture about these things, that he withdraws. Does he think he is the only person in this country who has any knowledge of these things? He has discovered them and believes he is Christopher Columbus - just run into a great new land mass. My colleagues on the front bench have known these things and have had the duty and discharged the duty of trying to wipe out the violence. But they were never prepared to interfere with civil liberties by blackening a whole group of people simply to serve a political purpose. There is no doubt whatever that 'this morning the Prime Minister chose, to be as offensive as he could be. It was his purpose to be offensive. He wanted to be as offensive as he could  'be: Now,  Mr Speaker,.,  he comes in here with this sort of explanation and says that after his little lecture, in the interests of something or other, because we now understand! what organisations are", he will withdraw. 
The Prime Minister should have the guts to stand up in this House and say: 'What I said this morning was insupportable' , because each member of the Opposition parties stood and said: 'I find it personally offensive to me'. 
The Prime Minister has done enough damage to his reputation and standing without the Minister for the Capital Territory setting out on a course of selfdestruction by stating as a fact that which he knows not to be a fact. 
You were here! I think you must have been floating off into space, dear boy.  Mr Speaker,  the fact remains that the Prime Minister has marched a few steps along the path. We are not a group which wants to submit the Prime Minister of this country to unnecessary indignity. The fact is that the -Prime' Minister did his own dignity more harm by his behaviour this morning than by the withdrawal and it is up to him now to recognise the office he occupies and to agree to withdrawal without qualification or, alternatively, to allow this motion for the suspension of standing orders to be passed so that each and every member of the Opposition parties will have the opportunity to state whether he regards the Prime Minister's allegation this morning as personally offensive. There is a clear choice for the Prime Minister to make, and he will not be advantaged by smartness or cleverness. Does he withdraw unqualifiedly or does he permit the suspension of Standing Orders so that each and every one of the members of the Opposition can state whether he personally was offended by the statement? However, it should not be necessary for each of them to do it separately and individually now because all did it collectively this morning. If the Prime Minister indicates that he wants to get a settlement of the case out of court I can tell him that there will be no settlement of the case out of court. It will be settled here in the open Parliament and it will be settled by an unqualified withdrawal by the Prime Minister. If he does not do it he will live in a coward's castle until he does. 
I seek leave of the House to make a statement about the outcome of the investigation of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation report of Interdepartmental Committee meeting on 2nd March 1973. 
 I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent me making a statement about the outcome of the investigation of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation report of the Interdepartmental Committee on 2nd March 1973 read out by the Prime Minister in question time this morning in lieu of making a statement by leave after question time. 
 We have had recently the most unprecedented action that has even been taken in Australian democratic history. I refer to the raid on the Melbourne offices of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. That was quite unprecedented and undemocratic; it was an action which we would hope would never again occur in Australia. But the issues that have been raised from that incident have yet to be debated in this House and I propose to debate them later this afternoon. The purpose of this motion is to enable the Government to treat this Parliament with contempt. It is designed to enable the Government to abuse its numbers in this House for the purpose of stopping questions being asked which are designed to establish facts. None of those facts has been provided to this House or to the Senate. The only facts that we know are those that have been elicited by questions. 
It is a sign of the discomfort that the Government has and of the concern members of the Government Party have about the handling of this matter by the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  and the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  that they wish them not to be subjected to questions. Everybody knows that in this House the Prime Minister consistently has refused to answer questions put to him about this matter. He constantly has evaded and prevaricated on this issue and has been nervous that yet another disclosure would be made to embarrass him, his Government and his AttorneyGeneral. The reason for the motion to suspend Standing Orders has no relevance whatever to engaging in the debate, for I assure the Government that we will co-operate in every way to bring on the debate. That was our intention as we walked into the House today. It so happened that we were not informed of the intentions of the Prime Minister until about 20 minutes before the House assembled today. This is just another departure from the way in which the affairs of the Parliament should be conducted. However, that time did enable me to make some inquiries about the precedents for abandoning question time. I have been advised by the  Clerk  that questions have been waived in the past for the following reasons: In relation to motions of censure or amendments to censure; at the opening of Parliament; historical reasons in relation to Budgets; and on other special occasions such as royal visits. There is no precedent for a government to take action to remove questions from the day's business to protect itself against probing questions; that is what question time is all about , 
I really believe that the Prime Minister had a dual purpose in mind in adopting this strategy. One reason was to avoid questions and the other reason was not to repeat the hitherto continual performance of his own embarrassment at not answering them. Those are the 2 reasons for the strategy. The Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  came up with his characteristically irrelevant and unsupported arguments. He said that the Opposition does not want to face up. I can assure him that we will not only face up but will also demand a full debate in this House. A full debate does not mean what he has already forecast- 3 speakers from each side. If the issue is so important as to suspend questions, it is important enough (o be debated in this House until it has been fully debated. It is a matter of great cowardice on the part of the Government to adopt this course of suspending questions and then attempting to gag the debate. I can assure you,  Mr Speaker,  that the Opposition recognises in this move the whole future of parliamentary democracy in this chamber. We will not lose. If we have to fight every inch of the way, then fight we will, but we will not lose on this issue. 
The Australian people are not willing to sit quiescent while a government attempts to use its power of numbers in this way. We will not put up with it; 1 give due notice of that. The Leader of the House referred to the brutal use of a majority in the Senate. The Senate debated this issue. It spent on questions on this matter a total of 6 hours. It debated this issue for nearly 3 days. Can it reasonably be suggested that the same course should be adopted here? It ought to be adopted here and we will be asking for it. The honourable gentleman said that the purpose of his motion is to bring on for debate item No. 9 on the notice paper which relates to a statement about Croatian terrorists. He said: 'Not a minute has been wasted'. The statement was made on 27th March and has been lying around since., waiting to be debated. We have been ready every day to debate it. The Government has put it off and put it off. Now its day of reckoning has come and we will co-operate in every way to bring about a debate on the 2 issues of which there is formal notice. One is the statement, the second is the proposal of the Prime Minister to move a motion expressing confidence in the Attorney-General. Another is the amendment I will move to the Prime Minister's motion, and that is to call for a judicial inquiry by 3 judges. All 3 issues can be debated together. We will give leave so that they can be brought on together and debated. Any suggestion that order of the day No. 9 on the notice paper cannot be discussed on its own is a matter for the Government. I have already indicated that if the Government does not want to debate it on its own we will cooperate to bring all the matters into the debate. 
Questions need to be asked, and they need to be asked now - such questions as who declassified the document about the alleged invasion. Why was that declassification not made last Thursday instead of Friday as a throw-away line in a commercial television program? I want to know whether the Prime Minister has had the opportunity to refresh his memory as to whether any expression of concern was made by the Director-General of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation as to the events on 16th March involving the AttorneyGeneral. There are a dozen questions which my colleagues want to ask, and the Prime Minister and the Government are the ones who are running away from them. They are running away from them because they have no answers. They have been put in disarray, and they are prepared, in the face of all precedent, to rob the Parliament of question time for the purpose of gaining some short term advantage in attempting to protect themselves. 
As for ample time, the Leader of the House said that 45 minutes will be allowed to the Prime Minister and 45 minutes to the Leader of the Opposition. There is not a member on my side of the House who does not want to speak on this matter. Where is the feeling of open government? The Prime Minister sits in a red flush. He is not proud of the tactic he has adopted, and he has every reason not to be proud of it. Anybody else would feel ashamed of it. We oppose the suspension of Standing Orders. 
On behalf of the Opposition I wish to move an amendment to the motion of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  I move: 
That all words after That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: a judicial inquiry of 3 judges be established to inquire into the following questions: 
Are there any active Croatian terrorist organis ationsin Australia and have they been responsible for violence; 
What is the legality of the Attorney-General's actions in relation to the events of 16th March at Australian Security Intelligence Organisation offices in Canberra and Melbourne and the way in which officers of ASIO were treated; 
Are the actions of the Attorney-General reasonable in the light of his knowledge and consideration of its consequences; 
Was propriety observed in the actions of public servants in providing information to the Government; 
What were the real decisions of 2nd March meeting, and 
What will be the effects of the AttorneyGeneral's actions upon the capacity of ASIO to discharge its statutory responsibilities'. 
The Prime Minister's speech was an extraordinary excuse for suspending the asking of questions. He is inordinately proud of his speaking ability, but he has no basis on which to be proud today after making that speech. I will deal specifically with only 3 points and I will cover the remainder of what the Prime Minister said as I speak. Firstly, the Prime Minister said that his Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  was justified in satisfying himself that he was receiving information. The Attorney-General has said, under questioning in the Senate, that he was not deprived of any information at all. Where is the justification for the raid upon ASIO offices in Melbourne or in Canberra, only supported by the Prime Minister on the ground of the Attorney-General satisfying himself that he was receiving information when on the Attorney-General's own statement, volunteered in question time, he was not being deprived of any information? 
The second point to make is that the Prime Minister said how ironic it was that on 10th April he should be defending his AttorneyGeneral for cracking down on terrorism. This demonstrates that the Prime Minister does not understand what this is all about. If the Attorney-General of this Government cracks down on terrorism according to the law and through the law, he will have the total support of this Opposition. That was the policy and the action of the previous Government. I say to the Prime Minister that he totally misunderstands, as has been demonstrated by that statement. 
The third point is that the Prime Minister asked rhetorically what we would do if Germans displayed photographs of Hitler and the swastika to celebrate the day on which Hitler became the Chancellor of Germany. I can tell the Prime Minister what members of the Opposition would do. We would deplore it in the strongest possible way. We would use whatever resources of the law were available to us to condemn it and prosecute it if it were an offence. We would not put up with it. I say unequivocally and with great pride that those people who would take offence at such actions of Hitlerism deserve a place, in my Party, for that is the attitude of my Party. We condemn it. In my Party there is hardly any man who was of military age at the time who did not fight it and who would not be prepared to fight it again today. If this was supposed to be a snide way of appealing to the sensitivities and the great pride of the Jewish people who are Australian citizens, I say to the Prime Minister that nobody could have, greater pride in the contribution to Australia that the Jewish people have made and nobody would be more anxious to respond to the protection of their position as free citizens of this country, totally free from any vestiges of anti-semitism, than members of the Opposition. 
Those points having been put out of the way, I now come to some other parts of this whole saga. The Prime Minister has asked this House to assert its prestige by passing a motion of support for the Attorney-General. Putting it in terms of this House asserting its prestige has some shallow appeal to him, no doubt. But is it the way to go about asking the House to assert its prestige by, for the first time in the history of this Parliament, controverting the forms of the House without the consent of the Opposition, only for the purpose of denying the Opposition the opportunity to question the Government? This is no way for this House to assert its prestige. We do not have to assert the prestige of this House. We are bound by the Constitution and we on this side do not like the Government's departure from it. I think the Government will come to regret this day. 
The statement on Croatian terrorism made in the Senate by  Senator Murphy  and here on his behalf by the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  has been answered by  Senator Greenwood. Senator Greenwood  has established that the Attorney-General started with a proposition which suited his political purposes and then attempted to prove it by a biased selection of material and suppression of other material. At the time of his statement  Senator Murphy  knew no more of the activities of individuals of Croat origin engaged in violence in Australia than  Senator 
Greenwood had known at the rising of the Parliament on 27tn October last year. Any information he now possesses which  Senator Greenwood  did not is the product of continuing investigations which were initiated by the former Government last year.  Senator Murphy's  attack was simply this:  Senator Greenwood  said and repeated that there was no credible evidence of organisations of Croatian violence in Australia.  Senator Murphy  then assumes the truth of his own allegation and charges softness on right wing violence and indifference by 3 Attorneys-General. I do not believe that the Director-General of Security has said that Attorney-General Hughes and his 2 successors were indifferent although  Senator Murphy  has said that the DirectorGeneral did say it. The truth of that needs to be established to see whether the misstatement of truth was made by the Attorney-General or by the Director-General of Security. That is a matter of fact which can only be elicited by a judicial inquiry. 

 Senator Murphy assumes the truth of his allegation and charges softness on right wing violence. This is a castle built on hypothetical sand and if a question based on it were asked in this House you,  Mr Speaker,  would rule it out of order. The word 'evidence' is used in 2 different senses. Firstly we may reach a conclusion based on facts as they are known or represented and say: This is evidence irrespective of all the facts'. In other words, it is hearsay. Secondly, there is legal evidence by which the first law officer of the Commonwealth is bound - he especially is constrained to be bound by this - when the liberty and reputations of citizens are in jeopardy. If the Attorney-General is asked whether X is an organisation of terrorists committed to violence and he says yes without having the evidence which would prove it in a court, he is robbing people of civil liberties. This is much more than a mere play on words. It goes deeply into the tactics adopted by  Senator Murphy  and his hapless accomplice, the Prime Minister, in perpetrating an outrageous and false smear on  Senator Greenwood. 
There are organisations within Australia with membership which is Croatian exclusively. The cause of Croatian nationalism has burned in the hearts and minds of many for a long time and I have no doubt is one of the bonding forces in the very existence of these organisations. That feeling is mirrored in the Baltic, Ukrainian and Polish communities. 
Who would say of organisations of those people that they are terrorist organisations? Who would condemn them? 
The honourable member for Casey  (Mr Mathews)  condemns them. In the Croatian community, there are men willing to display their sense of nationalism and hostility to Yugoslavia in ways which can lead to violence. They may join together with others in these enterprises. This is totally abhorrent. If they do this in Australia they must be prosecuted with the full vigour of the law and bear the consequences of their actions. This is the first point in any judicial inquiry - to ascertain the extent of Croatian terrorist activity in Australia. The emphasis placed by  Senator Murphy  on organisations, taken with his promises of new Federal police powers, must raise fears in many minds that he would attempt to outlaw organisations. It smacks of attempting to outlaw philosophies, opinions and thoughts. It is a threat to the freedom we have valued as perhaps the greatest quality in Australian life. 
The effect of Government action and statements has been to erode unfairly the good name of an important and highly valued section of our migrant community. We need to put the whole thing back in perspective. We highly value the contribution made to Australia by most Croatian migrants. This would be a corollary of the first point raised for a judicial inquiry.  Senator Murphy  says that this Government is determined that terrorism in Australia will be resolutely stamped out*. The Opposition agrees, but adds that it must be done within the law and by the law. The rule of law protects us against the arbitrary use and abuse of power. The rule of law is still our unqualified right as Australians and must remain so. We need no McCarthyism of the Left in this country. The purpose of  Senator Murphy  and the Prime Minister is to abuse  Senator Greenwood  in particular and his predecessors the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  and  Mr Hughes,  and thereby stigmatise the former Government with indifference, even sympathy to Right wing violence. He has used all the resources of Government to that political end; he has shown cynical ruthlessness in Government unique in Australia's history. 
But  Senator Murphy's  statement which held the promise of so much was remarkable as much for what was left out as put in. What was missing was the anticipated explanation of the infamous ASIO raids. We were led to believe that the Attorney-General's statement would carry full justification for this incredible series of events.  Senator Murphy,  in answering questions said: 
The whole matter of the visit to the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation headquarters was in the context of the visit of the Yugoslav Prime Minister. It is probably not correct to say that that was the specific reason for the visit to the ASIO headquarters. The matter was tied up with the visit of tha Yugoslav Prime Minister and the statement I was to make in the Senate'. 
But not a word about the visit to ASIO. There was no reference to the raids in the statement - no explanation, no justification. Attempts to get a clear picture of the events by persistent questioning have not been successful. A judicial inquiry would establish them. But I have pieced them together. Is it not an extreme thing that the Opposition needs to tell the story as it has come out rather than the Government? That, of course, points to another reason for a judicial inquiry. At about midnight on 15 th March after the Senate had risen the Attorney-General, accompanied by his Private Secretary and - as the Attorney-General described him - 'a  Mr Milte',  arrived at the offices of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation in Canberra. 
The Minister for the Capital Territory swallows that propaganda because he has read it somewhere but let us see what  Senator Murphy  said about it.  Senator Murphy  said, in answer to a question, that he thought his Private Secretary had rung to say he was coming. Where is the appointment in that? However that may be, clearly the Attorney-General had instructed the Regional Director,  Mr Brown,  to be there, giving him very short notice. Indeed, the poor chap was in bed, asleep. He was awakened and told to go and keep this appointment. No doubt the Attorney-General had some light conversation with him as befitted the hour and the circumstances, and then his eagle eye fell upon a piece of paper. It was a note prepared by an ASIO officer of a meeting on 2nd March. It was not even the original; it was a photocopy. This caused the Attorney-General to believe that drastic action was needed to preserve information. 
He and the Prime Minister have persistently refused to offer any explanation at all of the initial decision to go to ASIO headquarters in Canberra at any time. They still refuse to do so. The Attorney-General has stated explicitly that neither the Regional Director nor the Director-General had refused to provide information which he had requested. If he thought that there may be information of the kind in the document, a simple request without the nocturnal drama would have produced it. Perhaps a  Mr Milte  induced this irrational behaviour. This raises the second point to be considered by a judicial inquiry - the reason and justification for the initial raid on the Canberra office. 
At about 6 a.m. the Prime Minister's principal private secretary requested the immediate use of a Royal Australian Air Force aeroplane for  Senator Murphy.  The Prime Minister was kept ignorant of this. One could not be made available immediately, and  Senator Murphy  travelled to Melbourne on a commercial flight. At about 7 a.m. that day a force of about 27 Commonwealth policemen arrived at the Melbourne headquarters of ASIO in St Kilda. Contrary to  Senator Murphy's  constant assertions, it is my belief that watchmen at the ASIO headquarters are not Commonwealth policemen nor are any of that force normally on ASIO premises. There were 27 of them there that morning. The police achieved entry to the building. The means and the authority have not been disclosed. I believe that the inspector leading the raiding party had a telex paper giving him his instructions. I believe that the Commissioner of Police was not informed in advance just as the Prime Minister was not informed in advance. Whatever the paper was in the hands of the policeman, it should be tabled. The Attorney-General has merely said that the police went at his direction. 
Apparently, already in the building was the Director-General of ASIO. This raises the corollary to the second point to be considered by a judicial inquiry - the justification for the actions preceding the Melbourne raid on ASIO. Once in the building the police sealed all safes for the purpose of preventing them being opened by the officers who normally would have worked on the papers contained in them. Officers of the organisation were refused access to the registry and filing system of the organisation. Persons moving within the building were accompanied by Common wealth police officers. As staff members of the organisation arrived at the building for the normal commencement of their day's work they were directed by the Commonwealth police to an auditorium in the building which was used by the police as a holding area for these staff members. It amounted to a de facto state of arrest for some hours. The staff of ASIO was stoic in this abuse. The tape and seals brought by the Commonwealth police to seal the safes would not stick, so the ASIO officers provided them with selotape from the office stores. 
At about 9 a.m. the Attorney-General arrived at the building, not only protected by 3 Commonwealth policemen, but accompanied by other persons not identified, including a  Mr Milte.  Only with the specific authority of the Attorney-General could any officer of ASIO open a safe or otherwise retrieve papers, and then only those papers demanded by the Attorney-General. An officer obtaining papers was accompanied by a police guard. The Attorney-General commanded that the file containing the original of the note of the meeting on 2nd March that he had discovered in Canberra be produced. It was produced just as soon as the tape on the safe was peeled off. Triumph! He had preserved evidence! Of what? That document has now been destroyed totally by the Prime Minister who declared it to be wrong. This raises the third point for a judicial inquiry - the nature of the authority of  Senator Murphy  in taking possession of information and treatment of ASIO staff concerned. 
Today the Prime Minister tabled the terms and conditions of appointment of the DirectorGeneral of Security. Paragraph 4 subparagraph (d) says that the Director-General will 'take reasonable and proper care of all property of the Commonwealth which from time to time is made available for the use of the Organisation'. I presume that this document was a piece of property which was to be taken care of. The Director-General is required to 'keep secret all matters which come to his knowledge or into his possession by virtue of his office except insofar as any such matter may in accordance with the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation Act 1956 ... be communicated to another person'. But he had no say about this. 
Soon after this chain of events, some sixth sense told the Attorney-General that morale could be important. So he ordered the staff of 
ASIO together, addressed them and gave them a homily exhorting them to good behaviour and high morale. Then came dramatic reports of speeding cars. The raiding party ultimately dispersed and  Senator Murphy  left Melbourne with his seized possessions. So obsessed was he with his sense of the dramatic that, to avoid the enemy - it was reported to me - he arrived at the Trans-Australian Airlines terminal at Tullamarine airport as planned then dashed through the airport to depart on an Ansett aeroplane. We were next told that it was evidence of the conspiracy by public servants which justified the Melbourne raid. When that was declared wrong by the Prime Minister, the rest of the document suddenly was declassified by the AttorneyGeneral. From that point onward came the manipulation of the Press, Close sources were never lost for a helpful story. Initially it was put about that the Prime Minister knew and approved of the raid. Later reports suggested that the Prime Minister had not known and was concerned about the legality of the raid. There was competition between well informed sources. Curiously, the Prime Minister says that he did not know about the raid until the afternoon of 16th March. Most Australians had heard of it from newscasts hours before him. Was there a conspiracy in his own staff to withhold information from him? He did not know of the request for a VIP aircraft for the Attorney-General. Had Murphy's forces penetrated the Whitlam organisation? 
I cannot believe that the Director-General did not express concern to the Prime Minister when he saw him on 17th March and I cannot believe that the Director-General did not take steps to counter loss of morale of staff by communicating with them about it. I cannot believe that other officers of ASIO who were held would not have sought assurances from the Director-General that a complaint had in fact been made. The Attorney-General issued a non-statement that evening which said nothing not already known about the day's events. The rest of his statement clearly implied that the raid was necessary to ensure that adequate means were taken for the safety of the Yugoslav Prime Minister. That was the first reason given. Meanwhile,  Mr Whitlam  said nothing. Today he made a virtue of his saying nothing and the Attorney-General's saying nothing until the Parliament sat.  I  will come to whether or not that is the fact in  a  moment. 
The Opposition made constant demands for authoritative explanation. It was led to believe that the matter related to national security of the life of the Yugoslav Prime Minister. The Opposition was never given direct responses from  Senator Murphy.  Instead it was given only obscure references to the issue. The classic example of saying nothing until the Parliament sat was a Press release on the AttorneyGeneral's official statement paper written in terms of 'discussions are understood to have taken place' between the ASIO DirectorGeneral and  Senator Murphy,  'it is expected that  Senator Murphy  will table', 'it is known that  Senator Murphy  has impressed' and  Senator Murphy  is eager to dispel'. This is the first time I have known of leaking on the record. But there is evidence of it in the Press Gallery. 
Then we had the build-up of the Murphy scare syndrome. There were many reports of death threats, bomb threats and plots on the life of the Prime Minister of Yugoslavia and on our own Prime Minister. Assembled in Canberra was the greatest security force in the history of Australia. It was not a proud time but it was certainly memorable. The noise and spectacle of a helicopter gunship over the capital's streets will be not soon forgotten. The Prime Minister of Yugoslavia confined his visit to Canberra. He had limited social functions and spent most of his time in consultation with the members of the Yugoslav Embassy. He dined at the Lodge with a powerful oratorical accompaniment from the Australian Prime Minister to the interpreters and a handful of witnesses there assembled concerning the likely deportation of certain individuals. It was sensationally reported, as it was intended to be. Today the Prime Minister in his statement had to undo the harm done by that statement when he talked about deportation not occurring to Australian citizens or there being no abridgement of the rights of Australian residents. The visit of the Yugoslav Prime Minister came as a surprise to the majority of the Australian people.  His  life was said to be in danger but there would have been no inconvenience if he had not come. We have since learned that the Attorney-General was advised by his security advisers that the visit should be called off. It was not. Stories of death threats and bomb scares continued. 
Throughout my public life I have been aware of death threats and bomb scares to myself and to other Ministers and to many people in public life. For a long period I was receiving a death threat every Wednesday and every Saturday from the same writer. I burned them upon receipt. Until recently at least the advice of the police was to avoid giving publicity so as not to encourage others. Few people know of death threats. They have to be assiduously followed up by the police but not in the blaze of sensational publicity. Never before has officialdom created such an atmosphere in this country. No-one should understate the seriousness of death threats and bomb scares, but this is the wrong way to handle them. There is a new Murphy mood - an atmosphere of threat. Australians do not want this atmosphere; it has been too often used in other places as a strategy to win tolerance for abuses of power. It surprised me to hear today the Prime Minister say that if this Government could be categorised as anything, it could be categorised as a Government committed to eliminating fear. 
Ten days ago 68 Croatian homes were raided during the night in New South Wales. Thirteen people were charged; five for having explosives; a further 2 for illegal possession- 
It is just a statement of fact,  Mr Speaker.  It will not relate to the issues. 
No. Five people were charged with having explosives; a further 2 for illegal possession of firearms; one for having a starting-pistol; 5 for having stolen goods and one for assaulting police during the raid on her home. I think that what I have to say will not in any way prejudice the trial of the action. If you think it will,  Mr Speaker,  I will abide by your ruling. The headlines blazed; action photographs were taken. Arrests were made. That is a fact. But most Australians were deeply disturbed at this arbitrary display of Commonwealth police power. Many migrants remembered the 1930s. The police engaged in an exploration expedition. They had no specific information. The New South Wales police authorities quickly disclaimed responsibility and, curiously enough, they were closely followed in disclaiming responsibility by the Attorney-General himself. 
The next distraction, of course, was to attempt to allege, through his bitter personal attack on  Senator Greenwood,  the scurrilous accusation that the previous Government was soft on Right wing terrorists. This was totally unfounded and is now apparent.  Senator Murphy  has not prosecuted any organisation or individual. He has proved nothing. The next desperate effort was the Public Service conspiracy, which could not be sustained. It was declared to be wrong by the Prime Minister within 48 hours of declaring it a conspiracy. Next came the alleged invasion of Yugoslavia. This was the second matter contained in the document. The Austrian newspaper 'Die Presse' of 25th August 1972 carried this report: 
The Croatian terrorist movement 'Ustasha' want to send shortly their new commandos out of Australia into Yugoslavia and also plans a bomb attack on the 4th September at the Yugoslav embassy in Australia. Thus writes the Belgrade paper 'Novosti' reporting an article from an Australian 'special reporter'. According to the reporter a secret gathering of the organisation was held on the 11th August in an Adventist's church hall in Melbourne. The unsuccessful attack in West Bosnia was because the terrorists chose uncooperative contacts from within the population. 
Who was the special reporter? Was this the invasion which was expected and referred to in the second part of the document? Where did the information in the report - that is, the document found by the Attorney-General - come from? Did it come from the Yugoslav authorities or from this special reporter? Who was consulted before the document was declassified? Who told the Attorney-General the invasion would not happen? So much for the distraction and so much for the cessation of question time in this House today. 
When in 1949  Mr Chifley  established ASIO he built in safeguards to prevent its being used for political purposes of the Government of the day. Until last month the Organisation has been free from political exploitation. Now it is under a cloud. ASIO has established close relations leading to the interchange of intelligence information with the security services of our allies and other countries in the Western world. For instance, in 1971 the United Kingdom expelled 105 members of the Soviet Embassy staff in the United Kingdom as persona non grata. The information which led to the expulsion no doubt owed much to exchanged information. Australia, just like any o:her country, would be risking its national security if it did not have such an organisation. In spite of a barrage of misleading and derogatory propaganda, ASIO has a reputation of being one of the best and most responsible security services in the world. Honourable members will have heard derogatory criticisms of ASIO which it has not been able to deny or affirm because if it affirms sometimes and does not affirm at other times, it gives information; if it denies sometimes and does not deny at other times it gives information, and so on. So ASIO has had to adopt this attitude of refusing to confirm or deny, as I did as AttorneyGeneral in this House. I know the formula well and I know the reasons for it. 
I have heard people say: T know my telephone is being tapped because I can hear funny noises on it'. Now really, if there were an interception of a telephone call the last thing that would be permitted to be heard would be noises. I have heard people talk about ASIO documents floating around. Everybody knows the extent to which the AttorneyGeneral went. Apparently he did not see any ASIO documents lying around and, of course, the Intelligence Organisation is staffed by firstclass professional men whom you would be proud to call your friends for they are true Australian patriots and they are just as devoted enemies of the extreme Right as they are of the extreme Left. 
The damage which the raid has caused to the standing of ASIO in the eyes of all other world intelligence services to receive their information cannot be measured. Inevitably it will have caused concern about the confidentiality of information provided in the past and could lead to a refusal to provide information in the future. This would deprive Australia of important knowledge which it is necessary to have in the maintenance of Australia's national security. Almost from the commencement of this Labor Government reports were cropping up - some originating overseas - that the intelligence systems of friendly countries were concerned about the security of information in Australia. It was reported that Australia was likely to receive less intelligence exchange. These reports were disturbing and I asked the Prime Minister if they were true. He denied the truth of the reports, but the reports continued unabated. The concern grew further over the Prime Minister's opportunist and politically motivated revelation of part of our security arrangements in Singapore. 
In strategic appreciation there is no immediate external threat, but this does not mean that we should be seduced into easy comfort and quiescence. We must maintain our national security, which is a Government's first national priority. Action by a government against that security is that government's greatest crime. Agents are a fundamental source of information gathered to protect our security. Every western democracy has such a service. Every Western democracy owes a duty of preservation of the anonymity of the agents who serve it. The agents' job is to penetrate groups about whom it is necessary for the state, for the security of the state, to have information. The information that they obtain now may not be the whole story, but it adds a very important piece to the jigsaw. Their safety is preserved by other services - so should it be by ASIO - but can an agent have this confidence if a political Minister, accompanied by executive police, can seize files? It is a curious irony that if agents cannot continue in their jobs because of the events that have happened, we could deprive ourselves of information about the alleged organisation of violence. It will take away one of our weapons to find out about them. The files seized have apparently been examined by other Labor Ministers and at least one private citizen. What trust in the security of critical and sensitive information will foreign agencies now place in ASIO? The issue comes down to this: What possible justification could  Senator Murphy  have had for raiding ASIO with a platoon of Commonwealth Police? 
This raises the fourth term of reference - what alternative means were available to the Attorney-General to ascertain the facts? After  2  weeks of tortuous questioning in the Parliament, some Press leaks, and a build up of public concern, the Prime Minister deigned to give an excuse for the. ASIO raids. What he fails to do, and what the judicial inquiry must determine, is assess the effect on ASIO of the events of the 16th March and since. Within the terms of reference the judicial inquiry would be required to do this. 
On the afternoon of 16th March, the day of the raid, the Prime Minister saw a note of a meeting between public servants which read in part: 
The Department of Foreign Affairs made 2 points on the proposed statement. The first was that the statement should not be at variance with the interim  reply given to Yugoslavia in response to the aidememoire presented to Australia following the Bosnian incident' in 1972. . . . The AttorneyGeneral's Department accepted the first point. 
On 3rd April, nearly 3 weeks later, the Prime Minister was saying that this was the justification of  Senator Murphy's  raids and that, on the face of it, it appeared to indicate a conspiracy of public servants to lie to the Parliament. In the first place the statement is ambiguous. It quite easily could have meant that there was not new material to warrant a statement at variance with the interim reply. In spite of the Prime Minister's posturing, one cannot help feeling that was the conclusion reached by the meeting. 
Secondly, why did it take so long to investigate, especially when this is the Government that can take a decision on our currency, vitally affecting us all, in half a hour on the telephone. We had, according to the Prime Minister, a conspiracy of public servants, and almost 3 weeks later the Prime Minister was still in the dark. It should have been determined in 10 minutes on the Friday morning, lt could have been determined on the night of the raids by the Attorney-General with a quick phone call to his Permanent Head. These obvious courses were rejected because of the conspiracy-fear syndrome which afflicted the Attorney-General. It was a nonsense. But what was the Prime Minister to do. He was presented with a fait accompli. He had to opt to save his Minister or kick the Public Service. He tried to keep it quiet - in contempt of the Parliament. Maximilian Walsh of the 'Financial Review* wrote it before the Government even admitted it. The Prime  Minister  had known it since the day of the raid. Three weeks were required to find out that it was wrong. The fact is that there must be other reasons. The Attorney-General said he was getting all the information he asked for. He had the means available to discover the truth by proper arrangements. 
The alleged conspiracy was launched by the Foreign Affairs Department - the Prime Minister's own Department. Why not start there, with the Prime Minister, with a telephone call? He contacted the Prime Minister's Principal Private Secretary about an aeroplane. The alleged conspiracy was supported by the Attorney-General's own Department. ASIO officers were mere accomplices in this conspiracy theory, as were the Commonwealth Police. Is that not ironic? Why use one part of the conspiracy, the Commonwealth Police, to raid another part of the conspiracy, ASIO? None of it was necessary if the purposes were as they would have us believe. The attitudes expressed by the Primo Minister and the Attorney-General to public servants in this issue are not altogether surprising. When members of the Australian Labor Party are in trouble they kick a public servant who has no voice to defend himself. That happened last year when the current Minister for Labour, who as a shadow Minister wanting to justify his prophecies of doom, accused the senior officer of the Department of Labour and National Service of - he said in his humour - cooking the books. The Minister boasted that he would sack the senior officer. He did. This was a senior public servant who had been a Permanent Head under me and for whom I had the greatest respect. 
The Defence Minister,  Mr Barnard,  got into trouble and implied that  Sir Arthur  Tange was not telling the truth. This was in order to relieve himself of problems. We had  Senator Murphy  implying that his actions were taken because if he did not sneak up on ASIO and catch it unawares, ASIO would deliberately destroy data he should properly have. That was an extraordinary allegation to make. Even on concluding the inquiry, we were left believing that it was all a public servant's fault, and in future the ALP would not tolerate public servants being so sloppy. The judicial inquiry must determine how much, or if at all, the Public Service can be blamed for the ASIO raid. We will not stand by and see our senior public servants picked off one by one with this sort of vilification to enable Labor Ministers to avoid facing embarrassing political situations. 
The kindest interpretation that we can place on this situation is that the AttorneyGeneral showed atrocious judgment, that he was precipitous, authoritarian, hot-headed and uncaring about the results of his actions. By the kindest interpretation, then, the AttorneyGeneral is not fit to be in charge of our security forces and certainly not the expanded and increased police power he is trying to amass for himself. But the Attorney-General is an intelligent man. He would not be so stupid for so little reason- on the basis on one report without checking, and given its obvious ambiguity - to do what he did as he did. So we still need a motive for the havoc he has wreaked. Could it be that he was stimulated to this act by an erratic adviser with an over-developed sense of drama who promised him all sorts of mysteries in the ASIO files- someone who thought he knew the mysteries? He would have been prone to listen because the ALP has a developed tendency to believe its own propaganda. 
There has been a vitriolic and totally unwarranted attack on the probity and competence of ASIO from sections of the ALP for more than a decade. It is quite likely that  Senator Murphy,  like the rest of them, had developed this acute paranoia by virtue of these very stories that the ALP had been promoting. The Prime Minister provided  Senator Murphy  with an example of behaviour. Presumably, had he not been found out, public servants would have had to take the rap individually or collectively for that episode too. I refer to the disclosures about the Singapore security to a restricted group of journalists which became known within a matter of hours. The most logical interpretation of these extraordinary and damaging actions is that they were motivated politically or that  Senator Murphy's  judgment was seriously impaired. Whichever it was, he is shown to be a man not fit to hold the high office which he occupies. 
The ASIO report of the 2nd March meeting interpreted in one way at best gave  Senator Murphy  an unsatisfactory excuse to grandstand at ASIO. It in no way gave him anything like a justification. The contempt the Labor Party has shown to the Parliament in answering questions on the ASIO raids and explaining their purpose and effects has led us to call for a judicial inquiry of 3 judges into the whole question. The judicial inquiry should call before it under oath all the persons involved in the matter, including the Director-General of Security, his officers and Commonwealth Police. The removal of consideration of this question from the political arena to an independent body should ensure an unprejudiced examination and result. It will enable us in the Parliament to return to a consideration of those very important problems of defence, inflation and economic management that are facing this nation. 
The Prime Minister has rejected this motion to open the issue to the public. Not only is he showing a total rejection of his call for open government, not only is he showing his guilt about the incidents, but also he is treating with contempt the people of Australia who want to know and need to know. Only the guilty have to fear the truth. The Prime Minister had an opportunity to declare his innocence and he baulked at it. 
This debate has occupied question time. 
We on this side of the House are fully aware that question time is passing. We reached the conclusion that this issue is so important that we were prepared to lose question time today for the second successive day to debate it. The reason for the Opposition continuing with this matter is the immense importance of it. We have been sitting for a number of weeks- 
If that jackass would stop talking we would all be able to hear better. The gaggle of goosey-ganders on the other side of the chamber - look at the whole lot of them. What a bunch of no-hopers they are. 
You are the luckiest man of the lot to be in the Ministry. 
I hope that the Minister for Transport will withdraw the language he used about his colleague, the Minister for Northern Development, in the Cabinet the other day. 
It is not language that he would be prepared to repeat in this chamber. This is the first time I have heard an honourable member swear in this chamber. The Australian Labor Party has been in government for 4 months now and so much has it pulled this establishment down that the Minister sits on the front bench and swears deliberately. 
If the Minister for Transport- 
If the honourable gentleman asks for a withdrawal I withdraw. The reason I withdraw is that he has said that he did not use those words. If he says he did not abuse the Minister for Northern Development in language which he could not use in this House, I accept that and I withdraw. 
The matter we are now debating deeply concerns the rights of this Parliament. The honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  - colleague and friend of us all - is a man who has constantly stood up for the rights of this Parliament. One wonders why he should have done this, when he hears such giggles going on over there on the other side. But he has stood up for this Parliament and he stood today on a major issue of importance. The issue was this: Is this House to be conducted in such a way that when a person elects a member to come to this Parliament, that member can in this chamber discharge his duty to his electors? The Standing Orders have been drawn up for the purpose of permitting that. 
We have question time. Everybody knows that question time is the time at which Ministers can be questioned. Ministers who can use question time properly can show themselves to be good Ministers; Ministers who fail in question time can be exposed as failures, lt is the opportunity for members on the Opposition side to ask questions, to elicit information and to put Ministers under tests. Everybody knows and accepts that, whoever is in government, the Government side will ask half the questions. This means that the Opposition is deprived of half of question time which averages just under 45 minutes. Opposition members, on the halving basis, are left with about 22 minutes. If from the Government side questions are asked of which notice has been given, or if questions are asked in such a way that the Minister can expect the question and if the Minister proceeds to spend a lengthy time answering it, the Opposition does not have 22 minutes. It is likely to be deprived of a great deal of time and finish up with something like 10 to 15 minutes. 
The Opposition could be left with 10 to 15 minutes for questions. In the past the Opposition side has had something like  -  1 do not know the figure precisely  -  25 to 26 questions. Over the period of this Government we have not had that many questions and the reason is that Ministers have been defying the Standing Orders. 
Yes, and the Chair, by the method of their answering. If an honourable member asks a question: 'Is A, B, C the fact' and the Minister gets up and says: 'D, E, F, the Minister is not answering the question. He not only does not answer the question, he also takes up time and prevents other questions being asked. 
Yes, I do. 
The question that is before the Chair is whether or not, against that background, you,  Mr Speaker,  need to enforce absolutely the standing order which says that in answering a question the Minister shall answer with relevant material and he shall not answer on matters for which he has no responsibility. They are the 2 things which take up all the time - Ministers speaking of irrelevant matters and speaking of matters for which they are not responsible. It is very important that if a question is asked the answer be relevant and not be about matters for which the Minister is not responsible. But you,  Mr Speaker,  on this occasion permitted a question which inquired about a matter for which the Minister was not responsible. The Minister alleged that he was responsible, by suggesting that because there are joint rolls this, in some magical way, makes him responsible. What happens in a State redistribution has no relevance whatever to the distribution of electoral boundaries in the Commonwealth sphere, as my colleague, the Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Anthony),  has pointed out. It is not the responsibility of the Minister and there is no relevance and you,  Mr Speaker,  permitted that question. This has been so, not just on this occasion. We do not want to lose question time. The honourable gentleman did not want to persist in this way but the issue having arisen, unless we take this opportunity now to impress upon you.  Mr Speaker,  by disagreeing with your ruling, we will be acquiescing in seeing the institution of question time being submerged by brutal numbers, as the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  used the term yesterday. We are not prepared to have that happen. We believe your ruling was wrong because you permitted irrelevancy from the Minister. We believe it was wrong because you allowed him to talk about matters for which he has no responsibility and we therefore dissent from your ruling. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. I refer to his acceptance of the call by the Premier of Victoria,  Mr Hamer,  for a Premiers Conference to consider incomes and prices policies. Does the Prime Minister now realise the impact of ever increasing wages in forcing up prices to housewives, home buyers and all the community? Does he agree that sharply rising wages and changes in conditions of employment contribute more to price rises than profits do? Does he expect that the trade unions will slow down price rises by reducing demands for increased wages and does he expect that the trade unions will call off the crippling strikes now harming the economy and the people of Australia? 
by leave - Before the question is put on the motion that the House take note of the paper, I take this opportunity to make a brief statement. The Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  last night very courteously provided me with a copy of this statement. He properly recognises the great significance in national terms of what is described in the statement. I agree with the course he has followed, but because it is of such importance I do not want to reply to the statement immediately. I should like the matter to be adjourned so that it may be debated properly and adequately. I ask the Treasurer for his assurance that the matter will be debated and not left at the bottom of the notice paper. My suggestion is that the Thursday afternoon of the next sitting week would be an appropriate time for the matter to be debated. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Snedden)  adjourned. 
The Liberal Party of Australia very readily and with warmth supports the motion which has been moved by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  Our sympathy for  Sir Arthur  Fadden's family at its loss is heightened by our awareness of the great loss to each of us and to our nation.  Sir Arthur  was a man for whom all Australians had deep respect and of whom we can justly feel proud as a representative of all that is best in Australia and its people. The nation and each of us are poorer for his passing but his contribution to the building of the nation will not be forgotten and we will always retain the memory of a dedicated and genial leader whom we had the honour to serve just as he so selflessly served the Australian people.  Sir Arthur  Fadden's remarkable qualities were demonstrated in his rise from the cane fields of his native Queensland to the office of Prime Minister of Australia. Perhaps in all this his greatest single attribute was that he always treated the task before him and his service to the Australian people with the utmost seriousness. But he never fell into the folly of taking himself more seriously than the issues required.  Sir Arthur  will always be remembered for his warm and vigorous sense of humour, his ability to communicate with other people whatever their background, and for his strong and steady leadership of his Party and the nation. 
All of us have some special memories of  Sir Arthur,  but those of us in the Liberal Party remember particularly that, with the founder of our Party,  Sir Robert  Menzies,  Sir Arthur  was the co-architect of the great coalition which governed Australia for 23 vital years.  Sir Arthur  served in that Government as Australia's most distinguished and longest serving Treasurer. My record indicates that he introduced 10 Budgets. The Prime Minister said that it was 1 1 but it seemed as though he always introduced them, whatever the number might be. He presided over a period of remarkable growth in Australia. In this role he represented Australia with great destinction and effect at innumerable international conferences. 
His greatness as a leader and politician was soon evident after his entry into this House in 1936 at a time of growing international concern as the world moved inexorably towards the greatest conflict in its history. After little more than 3 years he was appointed Minister assisting the Treasurer and Minister for Supply and Development. Only months later he was appointed Minister for Air and Civil Aviation and soon afterwards took over the Treasury portfolio to which he was to bring such special distinction over many years. Less than a year later, in August 1941, he became Prime Minister of Australia. He was Prime Minister only briefly, but he brought to the highest office in the Parliament the same strength as he did to all posts in which he served in a political career covering more than a quarter of a century. Twenty-two of those years were spent in this House, and it is here that his memory has a special and honoured place. 
It was characteristic of  Sir Arthur  Fadden that in his farewell speech to this House on 11th September 1958, deeply affected though he obviously was by the break he was making - as those who were here will remember - he should have lightened the occasion for everyone and not just for himself by telling a couple of jokes. The stories he told we all remember, like that one of his in which he said: 'A rooster today and a feather duster tomorrow'. Many stories were told about him. All of us will remember the occasions on which he used to gather people around him and regale them with stories. You would hear people say: 'Artie, tell us the one about so and so.' Artie believed that a story never lost from the retelling, especially when it was in the hands of a raconteur of Artie Fadden's capacity. Everybody will know that very often these sessions of intimacy, of influence on younger members and steeping them in the traditions of this place, went on late into the morning; but everybody knew that by 8 a.m. Artie Fadden was back in his office as bright as a daisy. He had tremendous recuperative powers and extraordinary physical, mental and moral strength. On the occasion to which I have referred he said also: 
Parliament is very important. It is the real basis of our existence, from whichever angle you like to look at it. We have different views, our different convictions, our different objectives. If we did not have them, God help democracy! 
He went on to say: 
We may be divided on policies, but we are united in the ultimate objective of Australianism . . . 
We have just had his funeral. It was a funeral to which I went with no sense of sadness. I was very delighted that the moderator in speaking of  Sir Arthur  Fadden said: 
This is an occasion for rejoicing - not sadness - rejoicing in what a man can do and what contribution he can make to a country and to the people with whom he came in contact. 
I share that view. I had no sense of sadness. I just felt that Artie would have liked to feel that there were people gathered the night before to think about him and to talk about him, and that they would do so after that very moving funeral oration. Our most fitting memorial to  Sir Arthur  Fadden will be to live up to the ideals which he expressed and to try to measure up to the standards which he set in this Parliament and for the nation as  a  whole.  Mr Speaker,  we will always value his memory. He was a truly great Australian. 
I ask the Prime Minister: When did he first learn and how did he learn that  Senator Murphy  had been informed on 9th April of the intended Yugoslav Government's statement of 12th April concerning the execution of 3 men holding Australian citizenship? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Defence, Minister for the Navy, Minister for the Army, Minister for Air and Minister for Supply. When did he, as the Acting Prime Minister, first learn, and how did he learn, that  Senator Murphy  had been informed on 9th April of the intended Yugoslav Government's statement of 12th 
April concerning the execution of 3 men holding Australian citizenship? Why did he use the term merely 'in April' in a Press statement when asked when the Australian Government first knew, rather than the actual date? 
The reason 1 am asking for the suspension is that the principle has been violated in an unconscionable manner by the Prime Minister and his Ministry. The Minister for Social Security, as I said, wrote to me asking whether I would agree to the publication of documents. I have not actually read the documents, but they turned out to be a Cabinet submission and a report of an inter-departmental committee of the previous Government. There have been other occasions when these documents have been produced. Of course, the production of them has been extremely selective. They have been combed through for the purpose of picking out a particular point. 
That is the reason for the suspension, as I point out. Today the Prime Minister came into this chamber, produced what he believed would be favourable to him out of a group of documents and did not refer to me, to the Opposition generally or to any Minister who was concerned at the time. He had another group of documents. It was not then his intention to table them. I do not know whether they served his interests because, quite contrary to all conventions, he has not consulted me about the tabling of the documents. 
He was pulling the pages out. I noticed that he scanned through them before the end of question time so that he could test whether he had the right selection, whether the documents would serve his interests. The Prime Minister has covered up in an outrageous way the derelictions from duty of his Attorney-General. 
This is a matter of immense importance for the democratic institution of the parliament and for the democratic continuation of our method of government. The Westminster system has been in operation for centuries. The honourable gentleman well knows that I have reason to know that he is fully aware of the convention, but notwithstanding the convention he flouts it, against all advice that I am sure he must have received. He has covered up the dereliction of duty of one of his Ministers. Today he disclosed that he knew of a circumstance on 16th April. He left his  deputy  as Acting Prime Minister, failing to give rum any information and allowing the Acting Prime Minister to look as big a fool as the Prime Minister looked when he sent the Australian Ambassador to make the protest in Zagreb. This is outrageous behaviour, and because it is outrageous I am moving for the suspension of Standing Orders. 
If there is anybody in this House who is not a parliamentarian he will vote against the suspension of Standing Orders, but anybody in this House who is committed to the parliamentary system, and to the sense of democracy and the way it has been built up by people over the centuries will vote for the suspension. Then we will be able to have the production to this House of a single document which the Prime Minister said contained 2 things. The Prime Minister revealed one of them. That was the alleged conspiracy of public servants not to provide information extra to that which was given in the note of the Yugoslav Government. That was one of the 2 halves of the document. The other half of the document was disclosed by  Senator Murphy.  He said there was a document which showed that there was to be an invasion of Yugoslavia. The fact is that he invasion he referred to was mentioned in the newspapers in Belgrade and Vienna. It was from there that the super sleuths sent across here and the Commonwealth Police investigated the matter. That is what is in the document. There is nothing of national security. All that remains in the document is something which will be politically embarrassing to the Prime Minister. If he is so good at selecting things to help him, why is he not honest and why does he not act with probity and produce all the documents? Why does he not agree to a judicial inquiry into the whole affair? Since he last refused a judicial inquiry matter upon matter has come up. 
The Prime Minister says that the AttorneyGeneral just forgot to tell him because he thought somebody else would. Did the Prime Minister authorise a newspaperman in his entourage to write that he was furious with 

 Senator Murphy? How does he reconcile authorising that respected newspaper man to write that he was furious when he says today: It was all a misunderstanding'? This is the way he puts people into a position which shatters their standards. Meanwhile he seeks to escape all responsibility. While he may in his own view walk  across  the water, he will soon find that he has holes in his shoes. 
I ask the Treasurer: At a time when there is excess liquidity in the economy, what is the purpose of increased interest rates? What action has the Treasurer taken to ensure that Commonwealth bond interest rates are maintained at as low a level as possible in order to serve his own avowed policy of minimum interest rates rates? Has the Reserve Bank in its operations allowed the interest rate to rise at the long end of bond rate by almost one-half per cent? Has the Treasury, and the Treasurer, supported this rise in interest rates? If the Treasurer has supported it, when did he take the decision to allow the interest rates to increase? 
 The Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  has returned from the meeting of the Committee of Twenty of the International Monetary Fund held in London last month. The IMF is based on Washington but this meeting was held in London. The Treasurer made a statement to the House and I now reply to that statement. It was largely a factual account of the discussions on reform of world monetary system. Obviously the ground covered was broad and several points need to be made. The first is that there has been a growth in acceptance of floating currency rates as against the traditional IMF stance insisting on stable par values adjustable only in cases of fundamental disequilbrium. The United States dollar was in fact in post World War II the crucial element in this stability. 
The United States dollar became the major international currency. Most nations official exchange rates were expressed in terms of United States dollars and it was the major international reserve currency. Since August 1971, however, the United States dollar has not been convertible into gold, although remaining readily convertible into other currency for payments and transfers. The problem the world faces - this forms the basis of the second point to be made - is that the world is facing a continuing surplus of dollars. 
The Committee met at a time when the United States dollar was under strong pressure. The Treasurer has judged the United States actions as significant. But as yet it cannot be known whether these actions can be judged sufficient if there is continued monetary expansion in that country and the pressures on the dollar continue. Before I refer further to the surplus of dollars, mention should be made of the need for the balance of payments process to function in a better manner. This I note the Committee of Twenty saw as a necessary development. 
One mechanism about which there was a great deal of discussion is 'objective indicators'. It is said by some that this would help the process, but there must be doubt about how much this discussion means and whether such a process is real. It is understandable that there should be a search for stability that the IMF once ensured. It is argued that 'objective indicators' will provide the stable indices to trigger off an automatic parity change. In fact a floating exchange rate would suffice in most cases. If there were to be a lag between the indicator being observed and the exchange rate being adjusted - as I believe there inevitably would be - I feel that the speculator could step into this lag period, and make a 'killing' and force bigger movements, bigger changes than would otherwise be necessary, and even bigger changes than have occurred by international monetary speculation which has been so common over the last couple of years. It is because of this factor that the proposal is pitched in terms of automatic parity change. But what country would accept that this fundamental of economic management should be determined by formula solely. Would the Australian Labor Government agree to this? 
In regard to funding the 'overhang' or the excess' holding of United States dollars in the Committee's statement, the mechanism by which this is to be done is not disclosed. The Treasurer has recognised the dangers, but I hope that the full terms of any such proposal are disclosed before further consideration is given to 'them and certainly before the Australian Government were to express a willingness to accept them. I ask the Treasurer to undertake to do so. The concept of primary reserve assets entering and leaving the United States can be regarded as a form of discipline against the United States. This is technically called the reserve assets scheme, but whatever one calls it it needs the country to discipline itself. 
Of course the use of statutory drawing rights may be the alternative. The SDR could be elevated into a pre-eminent position and if countries refuse to exchange dollars for this or other assets, then alternative assets will need to be made more attractive. For instance, SDR interest rates could be increased. As I stated in the past, you cannot make SDR work by decree and this notion is reinforced when countries complain about a dollar problem but do not take the opportunity to convert their dollars into other asset forms including the special drawing right. The implication is clear - there are no satisfactory assets at present into which it is possible to switch. Australia has a very large holding of United States dollars, which has risen strongly. In February 1973 they represented 45 per cent of Australian total official reserve assets, and this is a problem which must be borne in mind. We are very much interested in the mechanism by which these so called excess' holdings of US dollars are to be managed, and if they are to be exchanged for some other asset value. This is a problem to be resolved, not merely for us but for many countries. 
However, as I have said before, the international monetary system must not be conceived as an end in itself. The ultimate aim is to facilitate the flow of international trade and commerce. This is important when countries with chronic balance of payments deficits try to place countries like Australia with surplus balance of payments at a disadvantage in terms of trading relations with one another. This has particular relevance to Australia at a time when the United States and Japan, each with different balance of payments problems, are seeking a special relationship with the European Economic Community. I have argued the general case before the International Monetary Fund, but we want a world monetary system which is fair to all parties, not a system that would place in the hands of an international organisation a power of direction which would weaken legitimate national interests. 
Up to this stage I have dealt with Australian vis-a-vis the international monetary system and its effect on overseas trade. I want to deal with the questions of foreign exchange control, but before I do so I should like to say I believe that in relation to the reform of the international monetary system the Treasurer will have attitudes which are not very different from the views which I put as Treasurer. I would hope, and I think it likely, that in relation to this the overriding attitude of the Treasurer, like that of myself, will be that we must put forward as vigorously as possible, without any inhibitions and not permitting any obstacles, the expression of our own national interest. But of course, in putting forward our own national interest, we cannot expect that other countries will agree to formulate a system which suits Australia. It will have to be a system which suits all countries, and therefore there will need to be for us periods of give and periods of take. I think the Treasurer will recognise that I stand very strongly for Australia expressing its independent view, and it will not weaken the independent view which we express simply because there will be times when the view we are expressing is precisely that of a powerful ally. We are not to be thought in any way subservient to that powerful ally because we are saying the same thing, because there will be other occasions on which we will be saying the very opposite. 
You are not antagonistic if you say the opposite. We will be saying the opposite on occasions. On an issue such as whether trade should accompany international monetary reform, of course, we will take the same attitude, for instance, as the United States, which wants to break down trade barriers to get access to trading blocks, etc. So we ought not to be reluctant to side with countries on the basis that we may be thought to be subservient to them, and we must not be reluctant to be in total opposition to the view of a powerful country when our national interest is not the same as theirs. 
I shall now lastly deal with the question of foreign exchange control. I am afraid that the bipartisanship I have been expressing - and the Treasurer has been giving me clear indications across the table that he shares the bipartisanship - now disappears. I deal now with the question of foreign exchange control and parity of the dollar. To the man in the street these most directly affect what is happening in the domestic economy. Australian controls of foreign exchange are vested in the Reserve Bank and the official exchange rate is fixed accordingly in line with the government policy. The Labor Government's excursion into international monetary matters has seen 2 changes in the value of the Australian dollar. Let us review the background. 
Last year this country had a substantial trade surplus consequent upon stable import levels and a sharp rise in exports. The import situation reflected a shakeout which had occurred in Australia in that there had been lower importation of producers materials and capital equipment and high levels of imports pf finished goods. The export situation was largely due to the jump in world prices for some of the major rural commodities, notably meat and wool. The combination of these factors resulted in a balance of payments surplus of $ 1,669m, which added to our official reserve assets but provided no benefit in the supply of extra goods and services within Australia. This was not necessarily a situation for adjustment of the foreign currency rate even though it was a position we knew was not benefiting us. The previous LiberalCountry Party Government had recognised the problems and taken appropriate steps to resolve the position in such a manner as to avoid adding to inflationary pressures stemming largely from wage cost forces. These measures included removal of controls on banks to increase the availability of domestic finance and other measures. 
In December 1972 the new Government flexed its economic muscles and revalued the Australian dollar effectively by 7.05 per cent. More was to come on 23rd December 1972. Control on overseas borrowing was further tightened with the imposition of a variable deposit requirement which increased the interest burden by one third. The issue of restriction in overseas borrowing lies not only in its economic application but in its excuse for certain members of the Government to display their xenophobia for all foreign capital. The Treasurer himself shows a remarkable ambivalent attitude. One moment he is preaching international co-operation in the very best Sunday school master manner, and the next moment he cautiously states the fact that any monetary system of the future will need to pay due attention to the sovereignty of national government. We know that the honourable gentleman's economics stop somewhere in the 1930s, but it is the very fact that there is an international economic machinery and that there is a better understanding of the underlying forces than there was in 1930 that the currency troubles have not generated a severe crisis in world trade and employment. 
As I said to the board of governors of the IMF last year, clearly no country can have a monetary system which is of its own unilateral design. The saga of the foreign exchange control continued with the devaluation of the United States dollar on 12th February 1973. Like Horatio, the Treasurer stood firm and by default our currency bounced upwards in the sea of floating currencies. Compared with the pre-December revaluation situation, Australia's currency was now appreciated by 19.6 per cent against the United States dollar; 12.7 per cent against Sterling; and 5 per cent against Japan and Germany. It would be difficult to sustain any argument for any appreciation of any kind against the competitive economics of Japan and West Germany. As an act of self-flagellation it has few comparisons. 
However, I suppose our gallant Treasurer swaggered off to the Committee of Twenty feeling very much the economic Titan. He has come back with a policyless statement, and presumably to help the more somnolent members on his own back-bench, a glossary of terms One of these terms is 'fundamental disequilibrium' - not well denned but one which the Treasurer should re-examine if he feels that our economic ills can be all resolved by fiddling the foreign exchange button. A spending spree is about to take place in the Labour Party and there is no concern for the 'cost-push' spiral. Everyone knows that devaluation tends to reinforce inflation and set a new and higher plateau of domestic costs. The Government must have regard to the real threat of inflation that exists in Australia today, and about which it shows no realism in its approach to it. The next time the Treasurer visits the Committee of Twenty, let us hope that the Australian economy is not cracking and he is not shuffling shame facedly into the Committee bearing what remains of a once stable Australian economy. 
My question is addressed to the Treasurer. Has the Minister for Housing discussed with him a proposal to eliminate stamp duty and legal costs for home builders and home buyers? If it has been discussed, can the Treasurer inform the House whether he, the Treasurer, supports the proposal? What is the arrangement for reimbursement to the States of revenues which would be forgone, and what is the estimated Commonwealth expenditure in the first full year? 
I ask the Minister for Immigration whether he has had any discussions with the Minister for Urban and Regional Development about the shortages of building tradesmen such as painters, carpenters, tilers, builders labourers and planners. Has he had any discussion with the Minister about amending the way in which migrants are selected to come to Australia, that is, has he discussed whether the Government will recommence recruiting migrants to Australia according to their skills for work in the work force and not rely solely upon family reunions to answer the need of Australia's development and the shortage of workers in, for instance, the important building industry? 
 The problem of the greatest magnitude which Australia faces today is that of inflation. There can be no doubt about that. Inflation, as was said by a management consultant yesterday, is something which people come to learn to live with. But the fact is, of course, that while they live with it for a while they soon learn that the effects of inflation upon them as individuals are very damaging indeed. Inflation has 2 major faults. One is the harm it does while it is running, and the second is the harm which is created by action taken to cure it, if that action is not taken quickly enough. While intiation is running, it causes a vicious redistribution of income in the community. Inflation does not barm the speculator but it harms the person on a low income. Inflation does harm the person who is a member of a union without great industrial power. Inflation does hurt the person on a fixed income. Inflation does hurt people who have worked all of their lives and saved and who are relying on money which they have saved to give then the added comforts in their declining years or old age - call it what you will. Also inflation redistributes in an economy where work is done. 
During an inflationary period the public purchasing patterns are quite different from what they are at other times. But when they want to buy goods of a luxury kind before the price goes up - or 'buy quickly while money still has some value', as I heard someone explain the situation the other day - they are entitled to be fearful of the future. Therefore while inflation may seem to be something that people can live with for a while, it is not long before it becomes realistic to people that inflation does do them a great deal of harm. Even the trade unions will not support the Government if it stands by and not only allows the inflationary pressures to rise but also contributes to them by such actions as arguing in the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission that there should be an $11.50 flat rise. Indeed,  Mr Jolly,  the Australian Council of Trade Unions advocate, said that he thought the rise should be about $5. In fact, the rise was $2.50 plus 2 per cent. If the Government continues with this attitude it is as inevitable, as that night follows day that it will have to take action to protect the economy. When that action is taken to protect the economy the Government will enter into a deflationary period in which people will be thrown out of work and there emphasise that I am talking about powerful groups like the Amalgamated Metalworkers Union which is a combination of what were formerly the Boilermakers and Blacksmiths Society, the Sheetmetal Workers Union, and the. Amalgamated Engineering Union and has about  180.000  members - have immense political and economic power. If they wish, they can call a political strike and say: 'We strike because we do not like the government of another country'. What can an employer do to rectify that situation? He cannot do a thing about it. He cannot answer their complaints. But the political strike is a method of serving a political philosophy. The fact that it disadvantages the workforce in a community - fellow workers - and that it makes life intolerable for those people who rely on electricity, transport, power or bread and children who enjoy drinks and ice cream, matters not when a political strike is called for the trade unions' purposes. This Bill builds up the strength of unions. One example - I will not spend much time on it - is that under the. Bill there will be no penalties on persons for entering any premises for the purposes of inciting a strike. What an extraordinary immunity is given. will be dislocation of economic activity. What will happen is that we will lose growth. Apart from the social harm there will be economic harm, and this harm will continue into the future. 
One of the problems which the Labor Party in government faces is that while it is obliged as the Government to take responsible decisions, in fact it is not free to take decisions on its own beliefs. The Government knows that it is confronting a problem of this kind and I have no doubt that it would like to be able to do something about it. But it dare not do so because the base of the Labor Party's political support lies in the trade unions and the trade unions are totally unwilling to accept that wage increases increase costs and that costs increase prices. The unions will not permit the Labor Party to take action on this matter. Therefore we will go on for a considerable period of time with all sorts of nonsense that in some magical way the Government can stop price increases even though it permits excess wage increases, and I emphasise the word 'excess'. But the base of the Labor Party's support really explains this legislation. This Bill is a way of giving to the trade union movement - the powerful sections of the trade union movement - tangible thanks for the support that was given to the Labor Party to get it into office. In other words it is discharging a debt in paying that price. It is a pretty severe price to pay. I doubt that Government supporters really understood what they were doing. They surely could not have been prepared to have legislation introduced in the House which would put the unions in such a privileged position. The Government talks about socialist philosophy, about a classless society, but by this legislation they are creating a class society in which the dominant class comprises the officials of powerful trade unions. These officials will be given an immunity that nobody else in this community will have. I will refer to this aspect later. 
The Government will provide for union domination on national events. The unions' views will be the dominant views of this Government - and by this legislation the Government will strengthen the unions. I am not talking about small unions but about the powerful agglomerations of unions that the Government wants to see become even more powerful in amalgamation. Trade unions today - when I use the term 'trade unions' I 
I want to deal with the  3  major issues of the Bill. The first is the abolition of sanctions. This word 'sanctions' has dropped into our vocabulary. What is really meant is the absence of any penalties, but the absence of penalties, of course, is related entirely to the absence of penalties on unions. If this Bill is passed, a union may strike with impunity. No penalty will be attached to an order from the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission or the court for men to go back to work. In future the unions will be able to do exactly as they wish. It will not please the Government when it has a rash of strikes but it will be disastrous to the Australian people for undoubtedly the strike rate is building up. 
Secondly, because there is no penalty provision there is no way in which the arbitration authorities can intervene in a strike so that the public interest can be safeguarded. When a strike occurs those concerned are not just the employers and the unions. A very real public interest is involved and our arbitration system, until now, has enabled the public interest to be taken into account. No longer will there be that opportunity. The penalties are maintained for breaches of awards. By the very nature of those penalties, which have been increased to a maximum of $1,000 they are referable only to the employer. This is a totally biased piece of legislation. It is not only biased but also retrograde. 
I am sure, that the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  would regard himself - though perhaps he would not find many sharing his view - as a forward thinker in industrial relations. In fact, what he is doing is going back 70 years. In 1904  Mr Justice  Higgins, of the then just formed Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, said of that Commission - or Court as it was then called - that it would end the law of the jungle and bring back order and reason into industrial affairs. What is now happening is that by taking out these provisions there is no way in which the public interest can be heeded. The Government is returning industrial relations to the law of the jungle. Even awards or agreements which voluntarily include any strike penalty provisions can no longer be registered with the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. Yet only a matter of a year or 2 ago the Minister for Labour and the Australian Council of Trade Unions were saying that sanctions were all right provided they were agreed upon between the parties and that the agreement could then be. registered with the Commission. What has happened to that concept I do not know. Quite clearly this is a vastly biased piece of legislation which will disadvantage the Australian public. 
The next matter to which I refer concerns immunity from tort which, in simple words, means that a person who can at present be sued in the civil courts for an action which damages some other person will be free to conduct that harmful action and the person who is harmed will not be able to sue him. This is an extraordinary provision. I personally doubt its constitutional validity, but 1 am not arguing that at the moment. The doubt I have about its constitutional validity is this: How can the Commonwealth pretend, under an industrial relations provision, to deprive^ one citizen of his civil right against another citizen to be enforced in the civil courts. I put that question aside and deal with the provision simply as though it were a valid enactment if it were passed. The civil actions which at present can be brought for damages against a person, will be confined and will not be available unless that person's actions cause death, physical injury, damage to property, threat of damage to property or defamation. 
The Bill tries to confine the provision, which was first introduced by  Senator Murphy  in the Senate last year, which applied across the board and which got nowhere in that form. So the Government has attempted to confine it. But the situation still exists that if a trade union leader takes his union members and pickets a particular factory, prevents goods coming in or going out and prevents workmen going to work, the employer suffers immense damage. The employer cannot sue the people who are inciting that action. To give this sort of immunity to a trade union officer and to put him above the law as distinct from any other citizen in the Commonwealth is quite clearly a retrograde action. Because also the bans clauses are to go, as are the penalties relating to strikes, and because the possibility of public interest being involved will be ignored, we have returned to the law of the jungle where the only way of settling a dispute is by strike or lock-out. There is no penalty for strike and no penalty for lock-out. What this really amounts to is an invitation by the Government to an employer, when confronted with this sort of situation, to lock-out his employees. If that does not mean going back to the law of the jungle I cannot understand what it does mean. It would prevent also fellow-employees, intimated by a union or union officers, from suing the intimidator to obtain relief from that intimidation. 
The Bill. In conjunction with the abolition of sanctions, it will grant to the unions and union officers positions of privilege not enjoyed by other sections of the community. Therefore, quite clearly, it is biased legislation. The third point about which I wish to speak concerns the amalgamations of unions. Under the present law, before unions can amalgamate there must be a ballot. That ballot must be controlled by the court. It is mandatory that the court conduct the ballot. Under the provisions of this Bill all that is taken away. There is to be no court controlled ballot for the amalgamation. It is to be just a matter of the union itself deciding how it will conduct the ballot. 
There has been a removal of the penalties provisions. The fines for conduct which is an irregular use of the balloting system have all gone, although there are still some penalties under section 46, which is a very genera] section. It needs to be specific and relate the offences and penalties to irregularities in the conduct of the ballot before amalgamation. There is a removal of all requirements to gazette dates on which the ballot will commence, open and close. All those things have gone. There is no time limit now for the period during which the ballot can be conducted. What will happen is that the ballot will be decided in any way that the union chooses to have it decided. This is not really a fair go for the Australian people, who are very greatly affected by what happens in amalgamations of unions, the putting together of very powerful groups in the community. 
I understand that there are just over 300 unions in Australia today. There are a number of people who say that amalgamations would be a good thing because there would be fewer unions to deal with but the amalgamations of which we are speaking are not the amalgamations of the small unions to make them more efficient and to take away the need to negotiate with several unions. It is not the small unions that are affected by the amalgamation clause. There is in fact very little impetus for small unions to amalgamate. The major force for amalgamation is in the big and powerful unions. One instance of this, as I said at the outset, is the Amalgamated Metalworkers Union, which now comprises 180,000 unionists who were formerly members of the Amalgamated Engineering Union, the Boilermakers and Blacksmiths Society and the Sheetmetal Workers Union. 
There is a great deal of talk about a proposed amalgamation of unions in the transport complex. Negotiations are taking place between the Transport Workers Union of Australia and the Federated Engine Drivers and Firemens Association of Australasia. I understand that enticement is being put out to the Seamen's Union of Australia and the Waterside Workers Federation of Australia to join in this transport complex. Can the House imagine what would happen with amalgamations which would form a big transport group and a big metal workers group and the power that these groups would bring to bear upon a government? Can the House imagine the power that would be brought to bear on the public when these 2 amalgamated union groups get together or future amalgamated groups get together? 
Quite clearly the public interest must be considered in this matter. If the public interest is to be considered, is it not fair to say that before there can be an amalgamation at least 50 per cent of the members should vote and that of the 50 per cent of the members who vote there must be a majority in favour of the amalgamation? Is that 50-50 proposal not fair? But not a bit of it in this Bill. In this Bill the Government says it is just a simple majority. It could be 2 members, the  president  and secretary, voting. No rules say when the ballot is to be open to union members or state the period of time during which ballot papers have to go out or during which any argument can be put for and against amalgamation. The union management executive alone could have a vote and that could result in amalgamation proposals. I believe that to take away any statutory provision relating to amalgamation is simply to turn over to the powerful officials at the top of the trade unions a tremendous accretion to their power. They are already powerful men. After this Bill becomes law they will be excessively powerful men. I am quite sure that the Minister for Labour will live to regret this day because he will have to deal with this power, and what we have seen in the past is that when a Labor politician is confronted- 
Three years perhaps. The Government has stopped talking about an early election. It is afraid of that. The Minister for Labour will have the problem of dealing with them, and everybody knows that when he has been confronted in the past with trade union power he has buckled. That is what will happen in the future because he will be confronted with even greater unions power. I think that this Bill ought to be rejected. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Berinson)Order! The right honourable member's time has expired. 
My question, which is addressed to the Prime Minister, relates to the Westminster convention that the papers of previous governments - that is, Cabinet papers, ministerial comments and papers relating to the passage of views between Ministers - should not be available to an incoming government, or to anybody else, except with the consent of the leader of the party that constituted the previous government. 
The interjection makes it necessary for me to say that the reason for the convention, built up literally over a century or perhaps more, is that in the conduct of business governments and members of governments must be fearless in pursuing policy objectives and must not try to build monuments to themselves in the future or be fearful of putting a point of view. In answer to a question asked, by the honourable member for Moreton, the Prime Minister said on  28  th March: 
Except in quite exceptional circumstances I accept the convention and I assure the honourable gentleman that I will observe it. 
I ask: What action has the Prime Minister taken to ensure that all Ministers and departments are aware of the convention and will observe it by separating out those documents which, according to the convention, should be separated out, and will he explain his view of what constitutes 'exceptional circumstances'? Finally, I want the honourable gentleman to understand that I am putting this question not in any adversary sense but for the purpose of sustaining a convention which clearly ought to be observed. 
I wish to inform the house that I have seen the French Ambassador to Australia this afternoon. I have presented to the French Ambassador a letter from myself to President Pompidou of France expressing the adamant opposition of my Party and of the Australian people to any further nuclear weapons tests in the atmosphere. I believe that the people of Australia and the people of the Pacific region are unanimous in their opposition to the continued testing of nuclear weapons in the atmosphere. For this reason I believe that political parties in Australia should present a united front to the French Government in opposing these tests. For all Parties the main issue is to preserve a safe and secure environment for the Australian people. 
My Party opposes atmospheric nuclear tests by any country, anywhere. When in government we ratified the partial test ban treaty and supported moves for a more comprehensive treaty. Our position has not changed. We must condemn all countries carrying out atmospheric nuclear tests which are contrary to the interests of all nations, contrary to the interests of mankind. When in government the Liberal Party, with its coalition partner, took the initiative as the first government to oppose France's resumption of tests in 1972. This protest, as with similar protests in previous years, was conveyed in the strongest terms, and the French nuclear weapon tests at Mururoa Atoll were repeatedly deplored and condemned by the Liberal-Country Party Government. We joined with other nations in opposing the tests and asking the French Government to cease testing.  Mr Bowen,  the honourable member for Parramatta, the previous Foreign Minister, arranged for a meeting in New York of 16 Pacific nations during thelast General Assembly of the United Nations. He chaired this meeting jointly with the New Zealand Foreign Minister. As a result a resolution was ultimately passed by an overwhelming majority in the General Assembly. I ask for leave to table a copy of that resolution. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Luchetti)Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
We took all possible action by the appropriate diplomatic means and in accordance with proper international action. In rejecting these reasonable representations and this expression of United Nations opinion, by continuing atmospheric testing in the Pacific and by announcing that further tests are yet to be held, the Government of France has shown what I can only describe as an inexplicable disregard for the welfare, well being and the clearly expressed views of the people of Australia, the Pacific and the littoral states of the region. My Party endorses the statement by the countries of the South Pacific Forum issued on 20th April 1973 that they are - and I quote directly from the resolution - unanimous in expressing their deep concern at the apparent continuing failure of the French Government to comprehend the extent of opposition to the conduct by France of its tests in the Pacific area and to respect the wishes of the peoples of the area. They reaffirmed their strong opposition to these tests which exposed their peoples as well as their environment to radioactive fallout against their wishes and without benefit to them, and which demonstrated deplorable indifference to their future well being. They urged the Government of France to heed the call of the United Nations General Assembly and its obligations under international law by bringing about an immediate halt to all testing in the area. Members expressed their determination to use all proper and practicable means open to them to bring an end to nuclear testing particularly in the South Pacific. 
Under the present circumstances we do not dissent from the Government's action in taking this matter to the International Court of Justice. France has rejected the jurisdiction of the Court in this matter and the practical effectiveness of any decision it might make in such a case must be doubtful. However, we support any responsible action, and in terms of the South Pacific Forum resolution, proper and practical means which might serve to curtail French nuclear testing in the atmosphere in the Pacific - but it must be responsible, proper and practicable. 
There is evidence available from several sources that the nuclear tests which France has carried out in French Polynesia, and which it now proposes to continue, have added to the radioactive fallout to which people in this region are exposed. The fact that the level of additional fallout might be small cannot make the tests acceptable. No matter how effective safeguards may be, and we assume that the French Government is planning to take the most effective precautions, further nuclear weapons tests in the atmosphere remain unacceptable. The Australian Academy of Science has produced a report on the biological effects of nuclear explosives fallout' which the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  tabled on 2nd May. This report does not question earlier estimates of radioactive fallout from the French tests on the basis of which we, when in government, advised this House and the people of Australia. The Academy of Science has concluded that: 
Though the average levels of radiation due to the French explosions are unlikely to make a statistically detectable increase in the cancer or genetic effects in Australia, we emphasise that there should be no unwarranted exposure to radiation. Further, with the long-lived isotopes produced as the result of nuclear explosions in either the Southern or Northern Hemisphere, the effects on the Australian population, though small, would be cumulative. 
The last word cumulative should be stressed. The Academy has suggested that: 
Australia, as the result of the French tests which have already taken place could have one case of thyroid cancer per year due to the isotope iodine 131 and 1 to 4 other cancer cases per year due to strontium 90, caesium 137 and carbon 14. 
We are faced with a situation in which there could, according to the Academy's report, be adverse effects on future Australian generations as a result of the French tests. While it is to be recognised that these are possibilities and that the conclusions reached are subject to qualification, nevertheless, it should be selfevident that any pollution of the environment carrying with it the possibility of endangering human life and welfare, should be avoided. 
It is regrettable that one nation should regard its own interests to be so over-riding as to neglect or ignore the physical well-being of people everywhere. 
Such an attitude is unreasonable. We would therefore ask the Government of France to take a responsible attitude in this matter and to treat their fellow men with dignity and compassion. We have always valued our relationship with France. We have bonds of friendship which we wish to be strengthened. We share with them membership of the free world. My Party's policy is directed to preserving our role in the free and democratic world. But we cannot acquiesce in any compromise affecting the welfare or safety of the Australian people. We must condemn the testing of nuclear weapons in the atmosphere at the same time that we continue to seek the co-operation of the French Government. 
The French Government's action in continuing nuclear weapons tests in the atmosphere in the Pacific is contrary to the provisions of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights which states that all people 'should act towards one another in the spirit of brotherhood'. All we ask is that the French Government does not act in contravention of this declaration. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hansen)  adjourned. 
Before asking my question I take this opportunity to congratulate the Minister for Social Security, who is sitting at the table this morning. My question is addressed to the Leader of the House.  1  ask: Will he put aside the attitudes that he expressed yesterday in relation to the Medical Practice Clarification Bill which is due to come on this morning as a private member's Bill? Will he overlook and forget the outrage felt on this side of the House, and perhaps on the other side of the House also, and come to the realisation that on this issue it is a matter of fundamental importance to every honourable member, regardless of which side of the House he is on in political terms? Irrespective of the Party to which honourable members belong, all members of this House will be expressing their view on the Bill according to deeply held views, whether those views arise out of conscience, ethics or religion. 
It is necessary for every member of this House who wishes to do so to have the opportunity to explain why he is voting as he will vote because nobody in this House can avoid the vote today. Honourable members should not have to vote without the opportunity to explain their views, whether they are in favour of the Bill, whether they are against the Bill or whether they are in favour of one or other of at least 2 amendments that I know of. Does the honourable gentleman realise that, according to the Standing Orders, if 210 minutes only are allowed for this debate the mover could take 30 minutes, a person deputed by the Prime Minister could, under Standing Orders, take 30 minutes and a person deputed by me could take 30 minutes? That would leave only 120 minutes. That 120 minutes could be occupied by 6 separate honourable members with the result that there would be only 9 speakers. That would probably deprive honourable members of the opportunity to move amendments that they may want to move. In these circumstances, will the honourable gentleman, please, on behalf of all members of this Parliament who have a view to express, change the motion passed yesterday to suspend the Standing Orders to one which would say that the debate shall continue uninterrupted until a vote is taken after every member of this House has had an opportunity to express his view? 
I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent a motion being moved to vary the decision of the House to limit debate on the second reading of the Medical Practice Clarification Bill so as to give an opportunity to all members, if they so wish, to express a view on the second readingstage of the Bill.  1 have moved the motion because this is a matter of great significance not only to every member of this House but to the entire Australian public. The social mores of this country will be very greatly affected by the decision taken in this House today. Under standing order 91 the times given for debate read as follows: 
Other Bills (Private Government Member) -  and the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr McKenzie)  is a private Government member- 

<graphic href="083131197305100_12_0.jpg"></graphic>

Indeed, I will be deputing the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  to represent me. Standing order 91 continues: 
Any other Member...... 20 minutes 
The mathematics of that show that if all those speakers take up their time, and 1 am sure all of them could take up their time in order to express their views properly and adequately, it would leave only 120 minutes for20-minute speeches by other members, which wouldbe time for only 6 speeches, a total of 9 speeches in all. If this debate were extended for, say, 6 hours, the mathematics would enable extra speakers to enter the debate. 
The Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  said that we should discipline ourselves and each speak for only 10 minutes. In fact, I will be speaking only for that amount of time but that is because I have had the opportunity of deputing the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition to speak for a much longer period. But there are other members on my side of this House who would want a great deal more time than 10 minutes to make clear where they stand on this very deep issue and it would surprise me if there were any member on the Government side who could satisfactorily express his views in that time. If we were allowed the extra time I am quite sure that everybody would want to co-operate - not with the Government, but with each other - so that as many people as possible could speak. I believe that in this way honourable members would feel that Parliament was doing its job better. 
This is a fundamental issue for the Parliament to decide and it will be decided today. 
It has raised so much interest that into my office in Canberra since Easter have been coming at least 500 letters on the issue each day. These are not letters which have been printed and to which a signature has been appended; these are all personally written letters, some of them extending into 3 pages. There is no similarity between any of them. They are quite clearly letters that are not part of a campaign. 
The honourable gentleman laughs. He is permitted to laugh; he has some strange ideas and a strange sense of humour. These letters are not part of a campaign as we ordinarily know it. 
Ordinarily, as we know it, the documents are typed out, printed, or something of that kind, but there is a very real difference between the letters which are coming in now and the campaign as we have known it in the past, when printed forms have been used. The letters coming from those people who support the Bill are coming in on printed forms. 
However, the purpose of the exercise is not to decide this issue on how many letters one gets, or whether they are handwritten or typed. This issue must be decided on the basis of the views of the people of this House, who were elected into the House to express their views. They have the responsibility to express their views and cannot avoid that responsibility. They must not avoid taking a decision. The Leader of the House talked about the amount of time that had been allowed in the past for private business as though there were any relevance in that matter. 
 I hope to confine my statement to a brief compass. I oppose the Bill. Because I oppose the Bill no inference should be drawn that there is in any way a an attitude within my Party. My Party has decided, consistent with our attitudes, that every member of it should vote on this issue according to the way he feels morally bound to vote. I oppose both the amendment to the motion that the Bill be read a second time and the amendment which may be moved later. One amendment has already been moved and it had as its purpose the establishment of a royal commission. The other amendment, which may not be able to be moved, would seek a referendum in the Australian Capital Territory. I will vote to defeat both amendments. One amendment having been moved, the question which I understand you will be putting to the House,  Mr Speaker,  is: That the words proposed to be omitted stand part of the question'. To defeat that amendment I will vote yes as it is necessary to do in order to defeat it. If the majority of honourable members votes in the same way as I do, the further amendment which has been circulated in the name of the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  will not be able to be moved. The question which will then be put to the House, if I understand it correctly, is: That this Bill be now read a second time', and on that question I will vote no. It needs to be understood that I will firstly vote yes, and secondly vote no. That is necessary because of the procedures of the House. It needs to be understood that that is the way in which the defeat of the Bill will be effected. 
It is not necessary to write it out. There may be some people in the House who would like to put forward the proposition that it can be done another way. If they put that proposal forward they are attempting to mislead and I think it is most important- 
Or ignorant, yes. This needs to be made clear to honourable members and it needs to be made clear to the listening public. In as short a time as possible I shall state my reasons for opposing the Bill. But first let me say that I have received many thousands of letters in opposition  to  the Bill and I have received many hundreds in favour of the Bill. I have read most of the letters or, at any event, a very great number of them. I have read a great selection of material - of which there is a very great amount - which argues the case for or against abortion. But the attitude I hold today is not different from that which I have held for a long time. 
We all know that it is a complex society in which we live today. We know that there are ever-changing social attitudes - social values even - questioning constantly in our community such issues as, for example, the age of majority, equality of opportunity - which is an extension of the already achieved right of equality of rights - and freedom of individual expression. There is questioning about divorce and about homosexuality, and even questioning about marriage as a social institution in our community. One area of ferment is the role of women in our community and, of course, when considering the role of women in our community the question of sexual relations comes up. As soon as that question is discussed it is necessary to consider contraception. I do not believe that abortion can be seen as an extension of a contraceptive device. It cannot be seen as a fail-safe contraceptive. It must be seen in a quite different light for contraception is very much a part of our lives. It is, always has been and will be in the future. We should not be afraid about contraception or about speaking of it. Different people will have different views about contraception and they will have different preferences for the methods. But quite clearly the oral contraceptive taken by women is the most common form of contraception and there should be no social stigma about its use. 
The right to prevent conception is the right of men and women in our community and cannot be changed by edict. But what we are dealing with in this debate is the postcontraception situation, that is, of conception. It is my belief that after conception a life commences. Pregnancy is an imperative situation. We have all heard that old joke about pregnancy, that you cannot be a little bit pregnant. That is because of our belief, our understanding and the reality that after conception a life commences. So the issue before us in this Bill can simply be stated in this form: Is it acceptable in our society, with our moral and ethical values, to end that life in the way contemplated by the Bill? My answer  to that question  is no. Essentially the reason for my answering no is that I have a revulsion to the taking of human life. My revulsion can be overcome in some limited circumstances. The mother can find her life threatened or her health very seriously threatened by a number of medical causes, the 2 obvious ones being cardiac or renal disease, of her life can be threatened by her own hand in some circumstances. Essentially that amounts to balancing the health or life of the mother against that of the unborn child. It is a difficult decision, but difficult as the decision is it is not adequately answered by what may be described as abortion on demand or on request - I do not see any difference between the words; it is an element contained in this Bill before the House - at earlier stages of pregnancy, or by the provision relating to the later stages which, while containing conditions, are to my mind quite unacceptable. 
An additional reason why I would not want by my vote to pass this Bill is that I would not want to contribute to a situation in which young men and women may take a decision which could haunt them with guilt for the rest of their lives when a chance event brought back to their recollection the decision which they took many years ago and which deprived them of the opportunity of a child - stifled a life at a time when there were on them great pressures which they could not withstand at the time. The pressures could be economic, social and so on. It can be a cruel and uncompromising world in which young people live and we need to be more compassionate and understanding as a community, but this Bill does not contribute to that compassion or to that understanding. It obliterates the fact and pretends that it does not exist. 
Most abortions take place between 6 to 8 weeks when the mother realises her pregnancy and seeks medical or other intervention. The intervention of a doctor in sterile surroundings or the unqualified practitioner in the squalid surroundings are both unacceptable in my argument which is based on the preservation of human life. The first type of intervention is the social apologia for the second. I feel deeply for women who undergo abortions. I feel angry about crude abortions for profit. My attitude is consistent when carried through to capital punishment, sex education, access to professional social welfare workers, child care centres, community assistance programs and so on. This is not the time to debate those matters, but we must in the future tackle those problems and debate them. This is a time for a solemn appraisal of our responsibility as elected members of the people. My view does not arise from any adherence to an unbinding moral philosophy. 
My view has arisen because I have thought hard and long. Others have thought equally seriously and reached a different decision. But. I am morally committed to vote against this Bill and the amendments. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Has the Government any information concerning activities of Yugoslav Government intelligence organisations within Australia. 
If so, will he give full details to the House and table any relevant documents. 
If such information becomes available to the Government, will he give an undertaking that the 
House will be advised in detail immediately, and informed of what action will be taken. 
I wish to direct a question to the Prime Minister. Briefly, by way of preface, I mention that the honourable gentleman will be aware of the pairing system, as a result of which the true voting power in a chamber is not temporarily altered by the absence of a member on proper business or due to illness and that this system applies in this House and in the Senate. I ask: Is the honourable gentleman aware that on Thursday night of last week 3 Government senators, who were paired with 3 Opposition senators, during the ringing of the bells for a division walked into the Senate chamber and voted, and so changed the proportionate voting strength of the 2 Parties as a result of which a motion was defeated? Is he aware that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in the Senate has said, after I had consulted with him, that until there is an apology by the Government for the breaking of this widespread system of pairing which is adopted in ail parliaments pairs will not be granted? Will the Prime Minister arrange for an apology on behalf of the Government to the Senate as a whole? Will he state in unequivocal terms whether he agrees that the pairing system should be preserved in both chambers, including this chamber? 
I direct to the Prime Minister a question which refers to a question I asked earlier this morning. Since he gave his answer I have had an opportunity to speak to  Senator Withers.  In that answer he referred to a conversation between  Senator Willesee  who is, I understand, the Acting Leader of the Government in the Senate, and  Senator Withers,  the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate.  Senator Withers  has told me that that conversation was a confidential one, as is the way in which conversations for the conduct of each chamber must be conducted. The subject matters of the conversations usually are not disclosed. I have spoken to  Senator Withers  and I have asked him whether, as would have been implied by the Prime Minister's answer, the issue has been sorted out between himself and  Senator Willesee. 
Yes.  Senator Withers  has told me that the matter is far from sorted out. He has said that the terms for a return in the Senate to the customary practice are an apology on behalf of the Government and confirmation by the Government that it wilt honour the pairing system without taking political advantage of a very temporary kind. I ask the Prime Minister: Before  Senator Willesee's  conversation with  Senator Withers,  did he authorise  Senator Willesee  to apologise and to state that the Government would honour the pairing system? If he did not, will he now so authorise  Senator Willesee?  Furthermore, will he instruct  Senator Willesee  to apologise and to make a statement on the honouring of the pairing system in the Senate? 
 This Cities Commission Bill really is a Labor Government's administrative sleight of hand; now you see the National Urban and Regional Development Authority, now you do not. It has become the Cities Commission. The Labor Party claims a new initiative when in fact the Bill provides for only a change of ministerial responsibility and of the title, and little more. The change in ministerial control was an inevitable consequence of the establishment of a Department of Urban and Regional Development. The Bill is purely machinery to provide some substitute for activity, and that is all it is - a substitute for activity. Yet the Bill will go down in the calendar as another act by the Labor Government. Most of its actions to date have not been actions at all but promises made in government which were made in opposition, and it is not action to refer something to an inquiry, perennially and for ever. 
The second reading speech of the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  gives little indication of any activity. It is rather like a magic lantern; you would swear the figures were actually moving. There is a brief reference to the establishment of regional centres - a very brief reference - and a brief reference to the need to stabilise the price of land. The second reading speech was poorly constructed and full of half finished ideas which were left dislocated from a flimsy framework. It looked like a cut and paste job by somebody not very familiar with the subject. I hope the Minister did not write it himself. 
So much for this Cities Commission Bill as such. Much more important is what is now to come. We are awaiting the release of reports. I believe that there is a national strategy report in this area of regional development. That report is of deep significance but it is yet to be released. The plans for a national approach to regional development and urban improvement must soon reach a stage beyond the level of the Minister's desire merely to acquire the Dandenongs. I notice that the Minister has not been down to Victoria since that statement was made. 
The Minister says that he has been down there 3 times. He has not come forward with finalised plans as to how he will acquire the Dandenongs. That was an outrageous statement and one obviously made without any consideration. It has enraged the people of the area. From what I heard of his speech, the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Lamb),  who has just been speaking about this matter, made no attempt to justify what the Minister for Urban and Regional Development proposes in relation to the Dandenongs. I ask him to say immediately whether he supports the Minister. He does not answer. He continues to look at his papers because he is not game to say that he does support the Minister. Is it not extraordinary that, despite the fact that I have invited him to say by way of interjection, public statement or any way he likes, whether he supports the Minister, the honourable member for La Trobe, who has just spoken in this debate, continues to pretend that he cannot hear and continues to read some report? He has been in this place only a few minutes. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! The honourable member for La Trobe has spoken in the debate, and it is perfectly in order for a passing reference to be made to what he said. 
If the honourable gentleman who took the point of order had even an elementary idea of what the Bill was about he would understand that it is completely within the terms of the legislation to know whether the honourable member for La Trobe - and I bracket with him the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Mathews)  - supports the Minister in relation to the Dandenongs. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The discussion on this Bill has been fairly general and I will allow a bit of latitude. 
Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  1 conclude this portion of my speech by saying that if the honourable member for La Trobe wishes to continue to be a member of this House he will need to face up to stating whether he supports the Minister, who is a member of his Party. He has been unwilling to support his Minister. When the Minister is writing his next second reading speech he ought to remember that not only does he need to improve the quality of his second reading speeches but also he needs to take account of the fact that he may not be supported by the honourable member for La Trobe and the honourable member for Casey who understand just how disastrous it would be for them electorally if what the Minister said would happen to the Dandenongs were in- fact to happen. 
Some other specious claims about regional development have been made in relation to setting up big regionalised cities with large populations. On every occasion the practical figures have shown that the populations will be less than the numbers claimed. I believe that the populations projections for some of the proposed new towns that have been proposed have been revised. I invite the Minister to say what are the revised population projections for Ho'.sworthy-Menai and Albury-Wodonga as compared with the original proposals. This is only a preliminary question but I invite an answer on the change in population projections. Urban and Regional Development, which was the title of the legislation of the previous Government, suggests that there should be a 2-pronged approach to the problem of proper living room for a growing Australian population. I discuss my attitude in terms of the inter-linked though separate policy directions of these 2 points. People have been arguing about decentralisation for a long time. The fact is that the great percentage of Australians live in seaboard cities. Between 1961 and 1966 when the Australian population increased by one million, more than 80 per cent of the increase found its way into the pre-existing metropolitan areas. This trend is continuing and by the year 2000 the population, it is estimated, will be 21,500,000. With just over 13 million today, within !he next 26 years there will be an increase of 8,500,000 people. That shows the magnitude of the job we have to tackle. If we were to create 4 or 5 cities, even if they held 250,000 people each - if they held 100,000 people each, the problem would be worse - those extra one million would go into the metropolises so it is very important for us to know the magnitude of the job, just how difficult the problem is and how much money will have to be put into it. We need to reach a conclusion on a national policy basis that we will face this problem and that we will defeat it. We will not defeat it by the sort of policy speech that was made on this Bill nor will we defeat it by the attitude, which is the magiclantern attitude to which I allude whereby one simply changes the name of the Authority. There is a very big problem, and when speaking about it one must understand that there will be growing populations in the metropolises. When the Government speaks of urbanisation it is doing a disservice by using that word because it implies already an acceptance that urbanisation will proceed unabated. The proper words are 'regional development* and 'urban improvement' but I do not think that I have ever heard the Minister for Urban and Regional Development use them. A policy for decentralisation or the more modern term 'regional development' needs to be brought into focus. Capital cities have tended to become too large and most country towns have remained too small to function efficiently as modern social and economic units in the Australian experience of the last 30 years. Small towns do not grow naturally into large towns or even cities especially if they do not have the wide blue ocean lapping at their doorstep, and they will not do so unless we do something about them. To succeed in a policy of regional development means being able to encourage economic activities which are not committed to any particular area. Some are, because of particular requirements. Those that are not must be encouraged away from metropolitan centres where they would otherwise locate themselves and, where in the past, they have. Much of our industry fulfils this criteria in that it is both an economic activity and can be geographically mobile. By 'industry' I mean both secondary and tertiary industry. 
The Liberal-Country Party Government set up the National Urban and Regional Development Authority. The horizon had been broadened with the evolution of the expertise gained in the development of Canberra. One of the keynotes of this Authority was selective decentralisation. That was the concentrated development of a small number of centres which had been carefully selected having regard to factors likely to be favourable to their growth. The Authority was set up under  Sir John  Overall, who had for many years headed the National Capital Development Commission, and was directly responsible to the Prime Minister. The Authority was charged with pilot studies of a number of possible centres to be established in Australia. The names of possible centres have leaked out: Albury-Wodonga and Bathurst-Orange, to name two. These have been continuing under the present Government which is now in the throes of changing names and ministerial responsibilities. The body is now to be the Cities Commission responsible to the Department of Urban and Regional Development and to the Minister for Urban and Regional Development. A point worth making is that the whole concept will probably quickly have funds appropriated to it, and the fact that it was a Liberal-Country Party Government initiative will be buried, or at least the Labor Government will try to do so. It will hereby avoid the embarrassment it would have of saying that it is doing all this through the creation of the Liberal-Country Party Government, the National Urban and Regional Development Authority. 
There will be 2 competing views of regional development. One is that we should develop inland because Australia is now especially a seaboard metropolitan nation. This has a strong emotional appeal. The other view in which some see merit is that climatic and recreational facilities should be extended beyond the seaboard, to such areas as the snowfields which are very attractive to the tourist. The practicability of the matter is bound up in land and the attitudes of people as people looking for a place to live, the economics and price of land and the supply of public services such as water and power, ease of communication with major metropolitan centres, climate and the availability of the recreational areas such as lakes, beaches and the snowfields, as I mentioned. Regional development projects must be attractive not only economically, but socially as well. 
In planning any regional development the basic commodity is land for residential and industrial development, and its cost. In order to control speculation in regional development some form of price stabilisation must be considered. Now is a sensitive time for speaking about such control, when a national authority or a cities commission, no matter what one calls it, is investigating the feasibility of a number of areas. Knowing human nature, there are always those who want to take a punt and make a quid on land speculation. Price stability demands that the States cooperate in any scheme which the Commonwealth may develop. If the States do not co-operate the Federal Government is left with a grand design and little else. 
When we set up the National Urban and Regional Development Authority we were aware of this issue of Federal-State relationships and established a ministerial council of the Commonwealth and the States. Joint involvement of the States by setting up regional development at the border may bring 2 major States together to think the question through in a concerted manner. This is good. Let us not forget the problem of differences in existing legislation which sets the pattern for future economic and social growth. Increasingly it is being understood that in any planning we must involve local government in regional development. It is, after all, local government which has to deal with the day to day consequences of growth in the provision of services and in establishing priorities in the context of the overall plan. The question which must arise is: If the trend of population is to cluster to the coastal metropolises, what are the incentives which can be used to reverse the trend? Industry should be given direct, positive financial incentives. 
The Victorian State Government recently introduced a Bill to provide incentive payments to decentralised industries based on payroll tax rebates. This will prove itself an excellent initiative, but more policies of this kind will be necessary. An industry location survey of 118 metropolitan and country manufacturing firms was recently undertaken in New South Wales. It attempted to qualify the net balance of private industry advantages and disadvantages flowing from a decentralised location of industry. The survey estimated that the average net cost of the disadvantage was 92 cents per $100 of sale. Transport and communication costs were the major disadvantages. The second point that the survey showed was that with suitable incentives these disadvantages could be overcome. The most significant point of the study was the emphasis it placed on the problems of the unbridled growth of the giant metropolises without regard to mounting costs of suburban commuter services, the spiralling costs of urban land and the problem of industrial waste disposal. More and more people were spending more and more time travelling to and from their jobs. There is no justification for a 35-hour week simply because 2 hours of each day are spent travelling to and from work. 
Incentives must be given to stimulate regional development in a direct manner. Other incentives are the dispersion of educational facilities such as colleges and universities. Planning is all-important to establish the social medium by which small towns grow to medium-sized towns to cities. Planning must be aware of people's motivation. It must be aware that in a free country people cannot be dragooned into an area just because in an unexplained way it is desirable for the national interest. Nobody appears yet to have solved the problem of when a growing area of regional development in fact becomes self-generating. 
The proposed effect of the Commission's activity in the pre-existing cities is to be viewed with very great , interest. In the cities we take for granted amenities such as bathrooms, sewerage, running water, ventilation, gardens, parks and open space. Not long ago most of these amenities were beyond the reach of the majority of people. That situation would be totally unacceptable today. Man stilt seeks a more pleasant environment in which to live, and it must become more so. That is only natural. We must continue to improve the way of life of those people who live in the great metropolitan areas. Fresh problems that have arisen include the type of housing to be provided. At one extreme is the tow density suburban housing of Walter Burley Griffin and at the other is the vertical high density housing popularised by Le Corbusier 
My colleague, the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  is reported as saying in a speech last night that great multiple-storeyed buildings cannot continue to be erected as residential fiats and apartments to accommodate growing numbers of people in inner urban areas. I thoroughly agree with that proposition. This is not the type of accommodation in which people should be expected to live. The great multiple-storeyed buildings that exist will remain. How such housing developments will be handled to avoid, for example, social problems connected with children remains to be seen. I agree totally with what the honourable member for Hotham said. The price of land is rising in the fringe areas of the capital cities. This is a matter for great concern but to which there is no simple solution. Last week the Town  Clerk  of Knox City Council, which is situated on the eastern edge of Melbourne, reported that the price of land in that area had increased by 62.63 per cent in the 12 months to February this year. Land sales on the fringes of the city, while an important indicator of land scarcity, represent only about 5 per cent of land sales a year. A planned environment with urban corridors, the activity of land developers and, most importantly- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The right honourable member's time has expired. 
Motion (by  Mr Fox)  put: 
That the Leader of the Opposition be granted an extension of time. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister will be aware that I have made a statement in this House condemning French atmospheric nuclear tests and that in that view we were bipartisan. The honourable gentleman went to the South Pacific Forum and there he was a signatory to, as I understand it, or at least concurred in, a statement which said that all protests about the tests should be reasonable and practicable. The honourable gentleman agrees with that and so do I. He has today spoken about his concern that Australia should honour international agreements. In particular, he pointed to consular agreements and postal agreements. On that there is a bipartisan attitude. I believe it is most important that Australia should honour its obligations in any field. Therefore I ask: Will the honourable gentleman introduce legislation into the Parliament to make it an offence not only to act in such a way that Australia's international agreements cannot be honoured by the Government but also to incite that action? 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. When in Opposition the Labor Party strongly argued for an inquiry into the Commonwealth Public Service. Both Senators Murphy and Willesee put motions before the Senate seeking inquiry by Senate committees into the structure, recruitment and management of the Public Service. It is reported that the  Chairman  of the Public Service Board now requests an inquiry. I ask the honourable gentleman: Will he appoint a full ranging inquiry into the Commonwealth Public Service? If he is unwilling to do so, will he state the reasons? 
I address my question to the Treasurer. In view of the Government's stated intention to provide stated maximum housing assistance to those on low incomes, will the Government agree to a proposal by the Association of Permanent Building Societies to make their liquid reserves available for lower interest lending? The Association has estimated that it has $125m which can be made available at a lending rate of 6 per cent. Is the Government prepared to provide the guarantees sought by the Association to undertake the scheme which seems to accord closely with the Treasurer's own housing priorities? 
The Opposition views with concern the alarming rate at which prices are increasing. The Opposition is anxious to see the current rate of price increases abated, lt is appreciated that for the consumer the mo.st immediate symptom, and perhaps the most crippling symptom, of inflation is the increased price charged for products bought from week to week. The Opposition is anxious that prompt action be taken to cut back price increases. It does not believe, however, that the proposals advanced by the Government in this Bill will achieve this result. This is unfortunate. We have serious doubts about the ability of the Prices Justification Tribunal to achieve any real progress. We will see whether the Government's belief that it will succeed is true. The Opposition does not accept that view but will not hamper any proposals that may help in combating inflation. The Government has said that this proposal will work, lt is now up to the Government to prove that it will work. It is laudable to express concern for inflation. It is laudable to be concerned for the rights of the consumer. The Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  expressed his concern in these regards during his second reading speech. But where in this Bill is the Government combating inflation? The maintenance of consumer rights may be stated as an objective of the Prices Justification Tribunal but only the Bill will show whether it is a reality. 
This Bill is the most naive piece of economic legislation that I have ever seen. I doubt whether there has ever been such a piece of naivety put before any Parliament in the world, let alone this Parliament. Given time it will further confound any reader or observer. The Treasurer has a grounding in Utilitarian philosophy. He believes that the greatest happiness should be made available to the greatest number. I appreciate his idealism but I find it hard to accept the notion of a prices justification tribunal as upholding the rights of the consumer by pillorying the major supermarket when it increases the price of bargain basement items but leaving without scrutiny every shopkeeper whose turnover last year was less than $20m. It is like a scene from the theatre of the absurd. 
The honourable member for whatever electorate he temporarily holds is a star performer in the theatre of the absurd. 
Yes, the honourable member for Chifley is the absurd actor. 
The context of consumer protection is important, but in a curious context such as this Bill how is it to be viewed seriously? The legislation is all-embracing so long as the company concerned happens to have a large enough turnover in accordance with sub-clause (1) of clause 5 of this Bill. The provision applies only if the sum of th&amp; amounts received as payment for the supply of goods or services, or both, exceeds $20m a year for one company or group of companies. There is no description of particular classes or types of goods or of services to which the justification of prices procedure is to be applied. The only construction available is that if the total turnover exceeds $20m, all prices must be justified for all goods and all services. The Bill therefore has  a  matrix  of  goods and services which are not described, yet the price a company can charge is circumscribed. 
The legislation has a markedly populist flavour. It appears to get stuck into the large manufacturers and retailers whilst sparing the smaller businessman who may now be described ironically, in terms of this Bill, as being lc off a $20m a year turnover. How many have a turnover of from $5m to $20m whose prices directly affect the cost of living of the people of Australia and of all consumers? People might be excused for thinking that to be at all logical all companies should be included. I do not argue that they should be, except in the context of an incomes-prices policy which is thought out and is appropriate to circumstances. The Bill gives no guidelines about the amount of any price increase which could be allowable. There is no consideration of or direction about how frequently prices should rise. The Tribunal is left free to determine its own criteria and reach its own economic judgments in isolation from all the other interacting forces in the economy. 
The mechanics of the Tribunal, as described in the Bill, are fascinating. The possibility of rich new growth of the bureaucracy is quite daunting. As the reader passes through the great amount of rigmarole of the Bill he comes to how the 'men from the Tribunal' are to operate. All intended price increases must be notified. Then there is a lag period of 21 days while the men from the Tribunal consider. Not surprisingly, there is no limit to the number of members of the Tribunal nor to the number of clerical staff, research staff, administrative staff or any other staff which the Tribunal can have. Coming back to the men from the Tribunal, they may agree or may further refer prices to an inquiry which has 3 months to reply. 
In the meantime the backlog of proposed price increases will bank up, particularly having in mind the way that the prices are rising today under a Labor Government. Is it a correct biblical quotation to say: 'And then came the flood'? Meanwhile, the prices must be kept at the old level by the chosen companies, even though in the marketplace where the companies are bringing in their supplies costs may be escalating. In this context, the cost of labour which does not have to justify itself in terms of price before the Tribunal is likely to continue to rise also. On the other hand, while the large manufacturer or retailer is waiting for his price to be stamped justified', economic pressure is being exerted on him by the supplier of the goods. Whether manufacturers or wholesalers, if their turnover is less than $20m they are without restriction at all. The Bill is clearly discriminatory - 'but then, it was meant to be discriminatory. 
A major problem that I see with the Tribunal is that its reaction time would be slow. I cannot see it dealing with all articles in any real sense. For instance, I am told that there are 4,000 to 5,000 different lines in a typical major food retailing outlet, and in a large department store there may be 50,000 or upwards. No doubt those companies would have a turnover of more than this requisite $20m. The Bill speaks of 'goods of a particular description'. I expect that this includes perishable goods such as meat, fruit and vegetables. They are subject to daily market price fluctuation, even to the large buyers, and it is hardly practicable for stockpiles of perishable foods to wait up to 21 days for decision by the men from the Tribunal. Perhaps they would all be approved. This is hardly in the interest of the consumer as that interest is represented in the Bill. If prices are raised without consent of the Tribunal, a $10,000 fine each time can be imposed. 
It would need a large calculating machine to work out what the sum of the total fines might be, given the thousands of items handled by companies with a turnover of $20m. It adds literally to tens of millions of dollars. But the fines are payable only - I ask honourable members to listen to this brilliant piece of legislative thinking - if the price increase occurs before the Tribunal says that the company should not increase the price. The Tribunal can be ignored totally after it says, 'No, you should not increase it', without any penalty. If you make a mistake in timing the fine is $10,000 multiplied by the number of items; but if you can stand off for about 2 months there is no penalty at all. You just make the appropriate sign to the Tribunal and go ahead. All that the companies need to do is to tell the Tribunal what they are going to charge and they are immune from penalty, so long as they do not do it too soon. 
I believe that the Tribunal will have to confine itself to a schedule of key goods and services which presumably will be stated later by regulation. What a wonderful way to do it! There is not a single mention of it in the second reading speech of the Treasurer. Otherwise the Tribunal would appear to need the services of a small army - probably a bigger army than the Labor Government is prepared to have as a professional fighting force for Australia. The Prices Justification Tribunal will be under indirect pressure from the consumer to protect him and also to arbitrate. This will be reinforced by the Joint Committee on Prices under the chairmanship of the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford).  He has already indicated his determination to prevent prices rising. He does look like Canute, does he not? He is going to resort to unusual forms of sanction such as boycott. It will be recalled that the unions will be asked to co-operate in boycotting. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has just been chastising the unions for their actions in relation to French goods, but in relation to the Prices Justification Committee the trade unions will be turned loose with all the ferocity they can gather. 
The Prices Justification Tribunal may try to move with a measured tread, but I do not think it will be able to do so. The Australian Labor Party policy speech stated: 'We will establish a Prices Justification Tribunal*. This is now being done. The Government considers that it has a clear mandate and that it should be allowed to have rope, not to hang itself but in order to prove the premise of this form of control. The Australian Labor Party policy speech also states that it will 'convince all sections of the community that responsibilities, burdens and opportunities are to be shared equally by all sections of the community'.  Mr Orwell  would echo those words. Some are more equal than others and there is a residue less equal than others. That is egalitarianism in the modern socialist sense. However, I feel it necessary in talking of prices to bracket them with wages. It is not popular to do so because a great deal of propaganda has been put about that prices are what it is all about. Does anybody for a moment believe that if costs go up prices can somehow magically be subsidised by pulling money off trees or finding it floating to the ground from the air? Of course you cannot separate wages from incomes. The Labor Party in government believes that it has a unique anointed role to make Australia the only country in the world where inflation is handled by looking at prices alone. Inflation is subject to the pressures of cost-push and demand-pull. In fact, this legislation in a description of the companies which will be subject to it states that the provision of services will be considered in the $20m benchmark. This mention of services emphasises the understanding that wages are an essential part of the conundrum. They put it in the legislation but they refuse to acknowledge it in words. What sort of abandonment of logic does that represent? 
There is a growing anxiety in the community to combat inflation. For example, the growth of consumer protection groups who are worried by rising prices at all levels reflects that anxiety. The general community concern is important in considering the adoption of any policy which encompasses both prices and incomes. It is important that the community be prepared to accept direct governmental influence in the level of prices, wages and probably other income as well, if there is to be a real attack. The community must be involved. People must understand what the problem is and they must be prepared to participate in solving it. The criteria to be used must take account of the various institutions which now directly or indirectly modify, maintain and determine costs and prices. Let us not delude ourselves. The Prices Justification Tribunal at best can work in only one segment of the field. While the Labor Party in government refuses to acknowledge the other segments it cannot work effectively. 
Other countries have experienced price justification and notification systems. In Canada a Prices and Incomes Commission was set up in 1969. Business firms voluntarily agreed to give the Commission advance notice of intending price rises, but the Commission had no powers. Another essentially voluntary plan was started in the United Kingdom with a National Board for Prices and Incomes. More recently the Conservative Government has proposed a Prices and Wages Board following a 90-day wage and price freeze last December. The original Board contained representatives of management and labour and was provided with a relatively large research staff. Where is there any attempt on the part of the Australian Labor Party to understand the reality of this problem? It is prepared to allow inflation to run because the only chance the Government has of putting into effect its promises is to feed off inflation and to collect the additional take from personal, company and sales taxes and excise duties. That is what the Government has in mind. 
Constitutionally, the Commonwealth may be able to legislate with respect to company prices. I do not know; that will need to be determined. But the Commonwealth may be able to employ or threaten to employ other powers such as taxation and tariffs and other powers to stop unjustifiable price increases. However, I believe that the force of consumer opinion is such in Australia that if the wage component is dissected from the price of goods, the consumer would not allow the Government to concentrate solely on prices. In other words, if the consumer understood it, he would know that the Government's approach to this problem is a false one. This is the danger in considering the proposed Prices Justification Tribunal as the panacea for all problems relating to inflation and consumer protection. 
In Australia, our arbitration could offer a ready made framework for an incomes policy. It does not do so now. It sets minimum wages, not maximum wages. The wages it sets are always exceeded in fact. In contrast, whoever heard of a prices tribunal setting a minimum price with a penalty for charging below it? That is what the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission does. It is not the co-efficient. The arbitration tribunals are completely independent of government, whereas a fully fledged incomes policy, I believe, would require that they be integrated within the Government's general economic and social policies. With Australia's system of independent arbitral tribunals, a complete incomes policy would be possible only if the Government in the public or the consumer interest intervenes and requires tribunals to make decisions which accord with established criteria. The Arbitration Commission is not the incomes component to an incomes-prices policy. The proposed Prices Justification Tribunal will not be the prices component of an incomes-prices policy. There is no such policy of the Government. There are only stabs in the dark. 
The successful use of the wage freeze by  President  Nixon in 1971 was a circuit breaker in a vicious cycle that was going around and it was successful for the period it lasted but already the United States again is running into serious problems in relation to inflation. It is important that we continue to assert the link between wages and prices and that an attack on one must necessarily be accompanied by an attack on the other. A recent report of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development related the experiences of prices and incomes policies in Austria. The report emphasised the need in any prices and incomes policy for social cooperation and interdependence by all parties within a community. However, the machinery of any wages and prices policy which may arise during the next few years must be considered overall in terms of the interests of the consumer in combating inflation and reducing it to an acceptable level, and ensuring that the Australian economy remains on a stable footing over the next few years for its growth to proceed unabated and not be subject to disruptive 'stop-go' tactics which inflation produces. 
I have great reservations about the Prices Justification Tribunal as it is stated in the Bill. (Extension of time granted.) I am fully aware of the need for the rights of the consumer and I am most concerned with the present galloping inflation, as would any Australian be. I hope that the concept of a Prices Justification Tribunal will be of assistance, but I have stated my strong doubt that the actual detailed description as laid out in the Bill will achieve the purpose for which it is designed. The Labor Government has made the pudding; it will have to eat it. 

 Mr ARMITAGE (Chifley)-  Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
The honourable member for Chifley said that I misrepresented him. I should make it plain that what I had in mind was not his majority at the last election but his performance in this House and the likelihood of him being replaced by someone of better quality. 
My question is addressed to the  Deputy  Prime Minister. I ask the honourable gentleman: Will he give an undertaking on behalf of the Government, forthwith and unqualifiedly, that this Parliament will not be treated with contempt and that the Parliament will continue to sit until there has been adequate time for consideration by the Parties in Opposition of all the matters before the House and adequate time for debate of these important matters by the Parliament; and this week should be regarded as a normal sitting week; and that we should return next week for a normal sitting week and thereafter until the business of the House is adequately covered? 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. The honourable gentleman was in the House this morning when the Leader of the House said that the Parliament would continue to sit next week. I ask the honourable gentleman whether he will undertake unequivocally to make a statement this week on foreign affairs and agree, again unequivocally, to provide adequate time next week for the purpose of that foreign affairs statement being debated? In the course of making that statement, will he give details to the House of what he has attempted to achieve in foreign affairs and the degree of success that he assesses he has had, so that that can form a measure for debate and judgment by the House? 
 Mr Speaker,  I seek leave to make a short statement about one part of the second reading speech of the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden). 
From the speeches made by honourable members on the other side of the House in the course of this debate, it seems to me that this piece of legislation is presented by the Government as though there was a dichotomy of views and that the Government was speaking for Trans-Australia Airlines and the Opposition for Ansett Transport 
Industries Ltd. I want to make it abundantly clear that this is absolutely not the attitude of the Opposition. I do not believe it is the attitude of the Government, that is, that the Government supports TAA and the Opposition Ansett. The fact is that TAA is a fine airline and the fact is that Ansett Airlines of Australia is a fine airline. The fact is that we in Australia are extremely lucky that we have an internal airline system based on what is known as a 2-airline policy. It has given us a record of safety and a fleet of front line aeroplanes flying throughout this vast continent which we otherwise would not have had. As I understand the position, the Minister for Transport and Minister for Civil Aviation  (Mr Charles Jones)  and the Government support the 2- airline policy as strongly as does the Opposition. 
The Minister interjects kindly to say that it will be retained on an even-handed basis. This is the whole nub of the proposition. That is what we want to do - retain the 2-airline policy on an even-handed basis. That was the statement of policy which was made when we were in government by  Sir Reginald  Swartz, who was Minister for National Development representing the Minister for Civil Aviation. That is what we wanted and that is what the Minister has said is the purpose of this Bill. It is from that point we must pursue the argument and the debate. Three weeks ago the Minister for Transport introduced the Australian National Airlines Bill 1973, I believe, innocently. He said that he was anxious to implement Liberal Party promise. All that is proposed, he announced, was to implement what his predecessor,  Senator Cotton,  as explained in this House by  Sir Reginald  Swartz, promised of TAA. It was to be an innocuous little affair in which everybody could agree because the policy adopted by the Government and the Opposition was the same. I am afraid that it was not to be that innocuous little affair at all because it was not just a matter of the present Government updating legislation. It is clearly disclosed that that is not the intent of the Bill. One can only look at the Bill on the basis of the words used. That is how it would be interpreted by the courts and how it must be interpreted by the public. If that is all it was, the Bill would be agreed to. 
In government the Liberal and Country Parties gave their firm commitment to provide TAA with extended powers to engage in activities closely related to its airline operations to enable it to compete on equal terms with Ansett Airlines. We stand by that commitment. The Opposition will support any Bill that puts into effect the decisions we took in government last year. The Minister is adamant that the Bill does no more than implement our promises. At least he was adamant until the statement he has just made, but 1 will deal with that in a moment. The reality of the Bill must be examined clause by clause. What are the new functions of the Australian National Airlines Commission. Proposed section 19E(2) deals with the new functions of the Commission. It reads as follows: 
The power of the Commission . . . may be exercised (a) for the purposes of the efficient, competitive and profitable conduct of the business of the Commission in respect of its function under paragraph (a) of sub-section (1) of section 19 or otherwise as incidental to the carrying on of that business; 
Proposed section 19c (1) provides - 
The Commission may, to the extent provided by sub-section (2), transport passengers or goods for reward by air or by land, or partly by air and partly by land, between places in the one State. 
What that amounts to is this : Under the terms of the Bill the Airlines Commission will be able to transport passengers and goods by land without statutory limit The Commission will be able to transport passengers and goods and provide accommodation and other undefined services and facilities without statutory limit The Commission will be able to provide land transport to the Commonwealth and such other services as can conveniently be provided by the use of the resources of the Commission without statutory limit. The financial resources of the Commission are not defined, but when the financial powers are examined the resources are seen to be immense. 
Proposed section 19c provides that the Commission may transport passengers by land within a State. This function has been extended without any consultation with the States. The Bill will extend all the powers of the Commission to the full extent of the corporations power, as yet undefined by the courts. Proposed section 19d provides that the Commission may provide services that involve the use of aircraft without statutory limit. They will include general aviation, crop dust ing and all small plane charter operations. Proposed section 19e is a fascinating one. Under it the Commission may establish hotels without statutory limit. The Commission may operate enterprises providing recreation - whatever 'recreation' may mean in this context - without statutory limit. It may maintain entertainment establishments without statutory limit. There is no reason why it may not provide casinos, cinemas, theatres, live stage shows, night clubs, roulette wheels - anything it wishes. As the Bill is written, there is no statutory limit. The Commission will be able to make arrangements to operate establishments to provide other undefined services and facilities without statutory limit. The Commission's power to operate in each of these fields will be extended by the full backing of the corporations power. 
Under proposed section 19g the Commission will be able to operate immediately road transport in Papua New Guinea. The Bill uses the words 'if Papua New Guinea becomes an independent country'. The Minister ought to know that his own Government has decided that it will become independent. There is no 'if about it. The Government is forcing independence upon Papua New Guinea. Not only does the Bill extend TAA's functions into new areas but also, with the financial powers it has under this legislation, the Commission - not TAA - will be able to monopolise every industry in which it engages. The Commission will be all-powerful and untouchable. The Commission will have power to do all things necessary or convenient to be done for the performance of its functions. It will be able to form companies, subscribe for or otherwise acquire shares in a company, take over or buy out competitors and drive them out of business - not just in the field of airlines but through the whole range of operations from entertainment, recreation and hotels to engineering services. 
The Commission will be able to buy shares to the value of $250,000 or any higher amount which may be prescribed by regulation. In other words, after this Bill is passed, a regulation may come in substituting $250m for the $250,000. There is no statutory limit on that. It can be done just by regulation. The powers that are provided will be enhanced by strong financial backing. Under the proposed amendments to section 31 the Treasurer may approve borrowings in such amounts as he thinks necessary for the Commission to perform all its duties and functions. 'AH its duties and functions' are to provide hotels, recreation, engineering services, general aviation services, small plane services, etc. So, if it is to do that, the Treasurer may approve the borrowings. It can then borrow all the money it needs on the public credit of the Commonwealth for the purpose, if it wishes, of actually buying out Ansett Transport Industries Ltd or any of the major transport companies. There is no statutory limit. In all these borrowings it will have the full backing of  the  Commonwealth. 
The Treasurer will be able to approve borrowings by the Commission of any amount and under any terms that he thinks fit. Where is the even-handed dealing there? The Commission can be lent money from the Commonwealth at no interest, but I would think that its competitor could not borrow money for commercial use at under 8 per cent or 9 per cent interest. The Commission can use the money to establish casinos, to build cinemas and theatres, to operate hotel chains or to construct any type of edifice with the profits earned from any type of service or any facility that it wishes to provide. It can be a monopoly. It will no longer be an airlines commission which is operating an airline service; it will be a commission that can operate in any or all of this wide variety of fields and in a totally monopolistic manner. This is the type of power that would be conferred on the Commission by this legislation. It would enable the Government to transform TAA, that very efficient organisation which we know as merely an airline operator - major airline operator though it may be - and make the Commission the operator of all these things, such as hotels and theatres, and on uneven terms. There is no even-handedness here. 
Yet the Minister is adamant that this Bill does no more than implement the LiberalCountry Party Government's promise. That was never any part of our intention or promise. We must ask whether this is naivety or just a drafting catastrophe. Is the Minister being extraordinarily ignorant of the consequences of the Bill, or extraordinarily deceptive? He made a statement today to try to cure the situation. In a moment I will come to that and show that it goes nowhere near curing the situation. I think the truth is that the intention was to make this Bill do just what it says; that is, to create the opportunity for a giant monopoly vehicle to give effect to Labor Party policy to achieve the Party's socialistic aims. The functions of the Commission are limitless and the financial backing is immense. I believe that the intention is best expressed in the words taken out of the Labor Party's official platform which state clearly what the Government has in mind. This was not stated back in the 1920s or 1030s when Labor was responding to a socalled class war. This is from its very last conference at Launceston in 1971. It reads: 
With the object of achieving Labor's socialist objectives, establish or extend public enterprise where appropriate by nationalisation, particularly, in tha fields of banking, consumer finance, insurance, marketing, housing, stevedoring, transport and in areas of anti-social private monopoly. 
Of course, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has always said: 'Do not talk about nationalisation. We do not have the power to do it because section 92 of the Constitution will stop us'. 
But the Government has found a convenient way to do it here; that is, by giving some innocent, efficient body like TAA these powers and then providing it with unlimited finance so that it can buy out its competitors and become a monopoly in a commercial manner. The Minister now says in an ingenuous way that during the Committee stage he will suggest some amendments which will put the Government's intentions beyond any reasonable doubt. He says that all our fears were unfounded. If they were unfounded, he would not be wanting to amend the Bill now. The fact is that they were well founded and he knows that he has to do something about it because this Bill does not respond to the second reading speech which was put to this House and to the public of Australia. He knows that he has to try to get himself out of it the best way he can. He has made an admission that he did not understand the significance of the Bill which he himself introduced into this Parliament, and that is why he wants to amend it. The way in which the Minister chooses to amend it is expressed in these words: 
We will propose an amendment which will ensure that TAA's activities in these areas of accommodation, transport and engineering are related to the level of activity by Ansett Transport Industries in the same area. 
The Minister thinks that will cure the position. It most certainly does not cure it because what he has in mind - and he gave the figures - is that if Ansett Transport Industries total revenue was $208m in 1971-72 the amendment would allow TAA to plan its operations for the ensuing years on the basis that it would be permissible to earn non-aviation revenue in the same proportion. 
If this amendment is passed this is the consequence: If Ansett by way of a totally unrelated company goes into mineral exploration and finds a diamond mine which produces $100m worth of diamonds a year that will enable the Airlines Commission to have $100m worth of night clubs. That is the way in which the proposed amendment is made. It is a ridiculous way to try to cure the situation. One needs only to state the example which I have just given to see how ridiculous the amendment is. That is why we cannot support that amendment. I am quite sure that when the Minister looks at it again he will find that it in no way answers the problem that he has, that is, to persuade the people that what he stated were his intentions really were his intentions and that what is in the Bill is not his intention. What he should do with this legislation, if he wants to amend it, is to say that there will be an even handed dealing in competition between TAA and Ansett and that TAA will have the power to do these things, but only incidentally to the operation of its airline service. That is what should have been done. The proposed amendment is no way whatever to cure the immense damage which has already been done by the Bill in the way in which the Minister has proposed it. If this legislation were passed it would be a tragedy because not only would we on the Opposition not want it but also the Government, it says, does not want it either. 
We will introduce amendments which will have the effect of reducing the effect of the Bill from the present statutorily unlimited monopolistic capacity which it gives to the Airlines Commission and pull it back to where it ought to be, as we both agree, that is, to give statutory power to the level of the policy statement that we as a government made last year. We are agreed on that. We have the amendments to do it. We would alter the functions of the Commission as explained in this Bill to read in this way: 
The functions of the Commission are 
to transport passengers and goods for reward by air between prescribed places, and 
within the limits of its powers under this Act or any relevant State Act, to transport passengers and goods for reward by air or in association with its powers in this section and, within those limits, to provide land transport accommodation, and other services and facilities associated with the exercise of its powers under paragraph (a). 
We will move an amendment to transfer money from the TAA superannuation fund to the Commonwealth Superannuation Fund so that TAA's superannuation funds are not used as a subsidy for its commercial operations. We will also move an amendment to require the Commission to give its accounts in accordance with the uniform Companies Act and to separate the airline and non-airline operating results. The Minister has an amendment of that kind. We will examine it to see whether it is appropriate. The wording of the Minister's amendment is different from ours but we may be able to come to some arrangement to support that amendment. But we are certainly not going to support his other proposal to cure the Bill because it does not cure it at all. Another amendment the Opposition will move will provide that the Minister must accord the Commission and its competitors equal treatment. That is consistent with evenhanded dealing. We will be moving for that. 
We know that we will not be allowed sufficient time to move all our amendments. The Government will not give us time to move and to argue them. Therefore, on the motion that the Bill be now read a second time the Opposition will support the amendment which has been moved by my colleague the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn),  which reads: 
This House declines to give the Bill a second reading because it does not give effect to the statement of intention of the previous Government but would be used as a vehicle to implement the whole of the socialistic policy of the present Government.' 
We will vote for that amendment and we would need no greater confirmation of its necessity than the Minister's own statement. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Berinson)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. It relates to a Bill which is listed for debate in the House - the Grants Commission Bill. The honourable gentleman introduced this Bill last Thursday, I think - recently at any rate. In his second reading speech the Prime Minister used these words: 
The grouping of authorities into regions and the approval of regional organisations will be carried out in full consultation with the States. 
He adopted this method in the Bill because I think there are over 600- 
There are 900 local governing bodies which would need to be put into regions to make the task of the Commonwealth Grants Commission manageable; hence the idea of regions. I believe that full consultation with the States is essential. However subclause (1) of clause 17 of the Bill reads: 
The Minister for Urban and Regional Development may, by instrument in writing, approve an organisation or body that represents, or acts on behalf of, the local governing bodies established in a region as an approved regional organisation for the purpose of this Act. 
In other words, the Bill does not state what the second reading speech stated. I ask the honourable gentleman: Will he agree to an amendment to that clause in order that the Bill will give effect to the intention which he stated in his second reading speech? 
1 thank the honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Hansen)  who moved that the previous debate be adjourned to enable me to speak on this Bill now. I appreciate the courtesy. This Bill is very significant, not merely for what it does but for what it can do. It should properly be divided into 2 sections, the first relating to the good it can do and the second relating to the bad it can do. I propose to deal with both aspects. But first I want to describe the way in which I understand, from my reading of the Bill, it will operate. The Grants Commission Act has lasted for very many years. Under it States, which are often called the mendicant States, have been able to go to the Grants Commission and point out how they have suffered from the lack of services to their citizens. 
It is very important that this project had been undertaken because that is the way in which we have obtained equality for people throughout the whole of Australia. In this sense Australia is different from most other countries which have distinct regional differences - whether they are province or State differences or whatever is the political subdivision - in their standards. Australia does not have those differences. It is a remarkable factor of Australia when compared with other countries. A very great deal has been done through the Australian Loan Council and the Premiers' Conferences and especially through the operations of the Grants Commission. The Act is now to be repealed by this Bill. The new Grants Commission to be set up under the Bill will deal not only with States but also with local governing bodies. 
Clause 5 of the Bill, a short clause, reads: 
References in this Act to the grant of special assistance to a State are references to the grant of financial assistance to a State for the purpose of making possible for the State, by reasonable effort, to function at a standard not appreciably below the standards of other States. 
On a reading of the Bill it seems to me to be clear that the old concepts of the Grants Commission will be maintained, for that was the test that has been applied in the Grants Commission. Therefore, it will continue to have the effect of equalling out between the States the services which the States give and will prevent the creation of great divergencies of standards between people resident in different States. I accept that there is no essential change in that matter. Therefore I do not intend to say any more on that aspect. 
However, clause 6 of the Bill is a very significant clause, lt is the clause which enables the local government bodies to come to the Grants Commission. It has 3 . subclauses. The first is one which enables the Commission, in looking at a regional body and making recommendations about it, to give an equality between the regional bodies approved so that a regional body can provide services by reasonable efforts of its own which equate with the services provided by other regional bodies which are not declared as regional bodies and which therefore do not have access to the Grants Commission. To put it in its simple form, the idea of it is to create equality between, for example, municipality A which is unable to rate at a level which would provide the services, because of the low value of the properties, because of drought or because of the great distances that are involved in the municipality, and a small, relatively highly valued inner surburban area such as Kew, if the citizens of Kew do not mind my using them as an example, where the rate is high because the values are high and where demographically the people are at higher age levels and the municipality is an older one in which all the services have been provided over a period of time. That is the basic point about granting local government bodies access to the Grants Commission. 
The other 2 paragraphs are the necessary corollaries to that. Paragraph (b) provides that there should be a balance between each of the local government bodies in the agreed areas, so that if one regional body is approved the services it provides ought to equate with those provided by another regional body which is approved, so that we get equality. The necessary third corollary is that there be balance between the individual municipalities that make up the region so that municipality A is equivalent to muncipality B, and provided they take reasonable self-help decisions there should be equality within the region. 
That is the basis upon which we must approach this legislation. In approaching it, however, one needs to know what is an approved regional body. It is a term that we know not in Commonwealth legislation. It is, as a term, something which needs definition to tell us what it is. We may think of a region as the region of Murchison, the region of Broken Hill or of Gippsland. But what is the region for the purposes of this Bill? The way in which one finds that is to go to clause 17 of the Bill, because the definition at the commencement of the Bill says that an approved regional organisation means an organisation or body that is approved under section 17. I believe that in clause 17 we find a major fault in the legislation. 
Clause 17 of the Bill says that the Minister for Urban and Regional Development may by instrument in writing approve an organisation or body that represents or acts on behalf of the local governing bodies established in a region as an approved regional organisation. So primarily the approved regional organisation is not a local government body. It is some other creature created for the purpose of representing or acting for a group of local government bodies, ft may be called the Murray Valley Development League, it may be called the Citizens Progress for a New State, it may be called any sort of thing; but if the Minister decides to approve it it becomes a body that can receive money, how much money depending upon the will of the Grants Commission and the decision of the States. The Minister for Urban and Regional Development quite clearly is not equipped to make this decision, not because of any personal characteristics of the honourable gentleman but simply because as a Minister in the Commonwealth Government he cannot have the information necessary to make that judgment. There is only one place where any such judgment can be made, and that is in the States. The States would be obviously the correct authorities to decide what should be an approved regional authority. 
The Prime Minister in introducing this Bill used these words: 
The grouping of authorities into regions and the approval of regional organisations will be carried out in full consultation with the States. 
There is no reference in the Bill to consultation with the States. Quite clearly there must be consultation. This morning during question time 1 drew the attention of the Prime Minister to this deficiency in the Bill and he indicated that if I could provide a proposed amendment he would consider it. 
Yes. 
I thank the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  for making that indication to me. I appreciate it. I will be glad if he further considers the fourth of the proposed amendments. While he is considering that I would be grateful if he would also consider a matter which I feel is a fault in the legislation but which, because I did not raise it at question time this morning, I had not pursued. I now raise it in accordance with my intention during the course of my speech. Under the clauses of the Bill the Minister for Urban and Regional Development may by instrument in writing approve an organisation. An instrument in writing is a method by which an organisation can be approved. I readily acknowledge that that is a method by which it could be done, but for reasons which I hope to point out later this Bill must not be allowed to do more than what the Prime Minister in his second reading speech said he intended it to do. 
I do not want, and I am sure the Prime Minister in no circumstances would want, some future government to use this Bill as an instrument for patronage to individual municipal councils. It does have in it that capacity. For instance, an approved regional authority. while it is a body which represents or acts for  a  group, can under the terms of clause 17 of the Bill be a single municipal authority. It would therefore be possible to pick out municipality XYZ and the Minister whoever he may be at the time, could by instrument in writing, make it an approved regional organisation and then give it patronage for political purposes. I put it to the Prime Minister that the correct way in which this should be done is in such a way that it has the supervision of Parliament. With the supervision of Parliament the correct way is to do it by way of regulation and there would be a capacity for debate and it could be argued that it is being done for patronage if that is what some future government - and I am sure it is clear to the Prime Minister- 
I appreciate that. It will be moved by somebody on this side of the House that the words 'by regulation' be substituted for the words 'by instrument in writing'. 
That is right. I thank the Prime Minister for that interjection. I come now to applications for assistance. The application is to be direct from the approved regional organisation to the Minister. The Minister concerned is the Special Minister of State. That does not appear from the legislation but it does appear from the second reading speech and no doubt the administrative arrangements order will so provide for the Special Minister of State to be the recipient of the application. The Minister will then send a copy of it to the appropriate State Minister. The appropriate State Minister is the State Minister who is prescribed. 
If I may claim the attention of the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  and the Prime Minister for a moment, there is another matter that I wish to raise. The first definition in clause 4 defines 'appropriate Minister' as follows:  appropriate Minister', in relation to a State, means such Minister of the Crown of that State as is prescribed . . . 
I would not want to think that the Federal Government would go to the point of prescribing the State Minister. This surely must be  a  matter for the States to decide. I am. sure that the Prime Minister would agree with that. 
Something of that order. A copy of the application goes to the Minister, the Minister being the Special Minister for State. Clause 18 (3) provides that the Minister - that is whoever the Minister may be and at the present time it is  Senator Willesee  - may, in his discretion, refer to the Commission for inquiry and report the application that has been received. Normally I am very reluctant to give unlimited discretions especially discretions of this kind to a Minister but on this occasion I will not say to the Prime Minister: 'I would like you to take away that discretion', because if the Government feels that the discretion ought to lay there all I can say is jolly good luck to the man with the discretion because he will be under enormous pressures. It will be a terrible job. The Minister will have great pressures on him. He will be asked: 'Why did you not refer this?' It will be said: 'You must refer it'. The pressures on him will be such that if I were  Senator Willesee  I would be saying: Please do not give me this discretion'. But I leave it no higher than that at this time. 
There will be a lot of suffering done. The point I ought to draw attention to is that there will now be direct access from local governing bodies to the Grants Commission so that there will be direct access upwards from the local governing authorities to the Federal authority, the Federal authority being the Grants Commission. On the downward thrust, that is the money coming down, it still will have to go through the States because there is no other way to get the money to the local governing bodies except by a section 96 grant. It is important to remember that a section 96 grant will have to be approved by the Commonwealth Parliament and it is very important in assessing this Bill to make that clear in our minds. This Parliament will retain ultimate authority as it ought to have over the distribution of monies under this Bill. 
The Commission is to consist of a  chairman  and 4 to 6 members. The  chairman  will have administrative functions including assigning members. There is a lir.it of 6 members plus the  chairman  and  a  minimum of 4 members. If this Commission composed of 5 to 7 members can do the job and do it quickly and actually get the money to the local governing bodies then I will pay full tribute to them. But I feel that there will be a very long slow process before any product comes out of this Commission. I say in passing that I am very glad that  Sir Leslie  Melville has agreed to stay on as  Chairman  of this body.  Sir Leslie  Melville is an outstanding Australian. He has made a very great contribution to Australia and will continue to do so at least until September of next year. The Commission will have a very consuming task. The examinations will be slow. It will have to evolve standards and those standards will be very difficult to achieve because in order to make a recommendation as to special grants the Commission will have to consider what is an appropriate rating level, not just a rating level across the whole of the Commonwealth for all municipal bodies. 
It will have to make decisions as to what is an appropriate rating to ensure that a municipality by its own reasonable efforts is contributing to the amount of services it can give. It will have very many sub-divisions of the level- of rating. It will also have very many sub-divisions of the level of service which municipalities should provide. For example, there will be the level of service in a scattered municipality as compared with the level of service for a confined metropolitan municipality. The Commission will have to particularise and it will take a very long time before it can establish criteria. I cannot express any confidence that there will be a quick flow of money to the municipalities. But we must assume that the Commission will do the job. In doing the job no doubt the members of the Commission will have regard to the differences between local government bodies. They will not be able just to strike a common rate for the purposes of this exercise by making a judgment on comparisons. If they did that it would be a capricious use of land values. For we all know the differences in land values whether the land be in the cities, country towns or scattered areas. 
There are also very definite demographic structures. I have quite clearly in my mind the difference between the demographic structure of the City of Kew and the demographic structure of the City of Waverley within my own electorate. The City of Kew has older people than the City of Waverley. In Waver ley there are very many children. They are the children of parents who have bought their own houses and they have mortgages and repayments to meet. They are at the early stages of repayment and therefore will find the burden of meeting repayments much heavier than will those people who borrowed perhaps half the amount of money on mortgage 20 years ago and whose outgoings today are significantly less and whose capital appreciation on the house has been very great over the 20 years. So the demographic structure and the value of property makes a very big difference. In the inner city there are vast differences, for instance, between the City of Melbourne and the City of Fitzroy in the provision of services and what should be a proper level of service. In the outer metropolitan area there is a difference, for instance, between Kew and Knox. There are rural cities with surrounding shires. There cannot be common rating values in those instances. There cannot be the same standard of services required of both yet presumably if there is to be a regional body within the one region it will be the City of Benalla and the area outside it, or the City of Bendigo and the shires outside it, or the City of Wagga and so on. 
One of the good things that this can do is to provide an opportunity to correct differences that come about for reasons beyond the control of people, because of the demographic difference in structure, the age structure, the value structure. Another very important thing, especially for rural areas, is that in case of drought or when an industry leaves an area - perhaps it is a manufacturing industry in a country town - or when an industry such as the canned fruit industry strikes trouble, the ratepayers have great difficulty meeting their commitments. One point which needs to be made abundantly clear is that the money will be coming out of the same pocket. This Bill is merely redistributing it. That is essentially what it is doing. However, the redistribution can contribute to social and welfare progress in municipal areas in terms of halls, libraries, swimming pools, community welfare centres, the community nurse nursing service, the family planning centre and so on. The bad features of the Bill, not that they will be realised immediately, but the way in which they can become bad, is by an erosion of the States, and if that happens the federal compact which we have and which is the basis of Australia's constitutional structure will be destroyed. It must not erode the States merely to erect in their place administrative units which lead to the atrophy of the States and their ultimate abolition. I spoke earlier of another possible bad effect and that is of patronage if they are selected out, but I hope that will now be cured. The amendment will certainly do what it can to prevent it happening. 
In terms of the public administration we must think of the policy distribution of government function. Policy distribution lies between the Commonwealth, State and local governments. It is a fundamental principle of public administration that administration should take place as close to the people as is possible consistent with good administration. It is also clear that policy areas must differ. Some of the policy decisions need to be taken close to people, other policy decisions need to be taken more in the centre of the federal system in Canberra. If this Bill is wrongly used, it will result not only in bad constitutional practice but also in bad public administration principles for it will move to the centre all policy decisions and the States will cease to be involved with policy. All policy decisions could be made in Canberra, and Canberra quite clearly is not a place in which proper policy decisions which affect local government areas can be taken. Clearly it cannot be. If policy becomes remote and moves away from the area where people are receiving the administration of the policies decided upon, it can be guaranteed that there will be a breakdown in administration. It can be guaranteed that the policy decisions will prove to be wrong, at least in some instances, and that as time goes on will become progressively more wrong. 
Australia has 13 million people today but by the turn of the century it will have a minimum of 22 million. Whatever may seem attractive as a means of public administration or constitutional structure today will no longer be so in the year 2000 with a population of over 20 million. By half a century from now it is likely that the population of Australia will not be 22 million but will be approaching 35 million. In a major continent like ours, the concept of all policy decisions being taken in Canberra is frightening for the plain fact of the matter is that because a public servant works in Canberra he has no monopoly on knowledge, wisdom and policy initiatives. 
What we need to do is ensure that the first units, the States, remain a fundamental political entity in our Australian Constitution. I have a totally opposite view to that of the Prime Minister in this respect. In answer to a question yesterday the Prime Minister said that he is a unionist and is looking for a unitary constitution. I say clearly that I and my Party favour a federal constitution. There can be no doubt about where we stand on that. As we develop our population, decentralisation and regional development must be real. We on this side have a commitment to that. The Country Party and the Liberal Party as a government set about regional development and urban improvement. It will take an immense amount of money and we must succeed in it. If we are to succeed in regional development, it is certainly true that we need the co-operation and assistance of State governments and we need them as units in political administration. (Extension of time granted). I thank the House. Decentralisation and regional development must be real. Local government needs adequate finance and adequate staff for the demands of people living in local government areas are very often directed principally to the local government body. We all know the honorary services of local government councillors and the number of hours they put into their work trying to solve problems in the provision of services. As time goes on local government bodies will need to provide more and more services. This is true across the whole spectrum of government and is no less true of local government. For them to respond adequately to the need for improvement in our living standards and social structure they must have finance and staff. There must also be strong citizen participation in local government and in that strong citizen participation we want those councillors and citizens to engage themselves in policy, not to be simply the administrative fingernail of the long finger and arm stretching out from the policy decisions taken beside Lake Burley Griffin. That will not work to the interests of the Australian people. 
What we want the Federal Government to do is to produce a comprehensive policy rather than piecemeal elaboration through a series of Bills. We want consultation with the States for the local government bodies are created by the States. The States have the power to group them into more economically efficient areas. They have the responsibility to limit the rating powers of local government. They have the responsibility to empower local government to carry out services. The local government bodies need rating relief. Rating is becoming an increasing burden especially in rural areas and in the outer metropolitan suburban areas. The States are an essential part of this. The fact is that in this Bill there is a bypassing of the States, and in passing the money down this Parliament becomes watchdog for it. The direct approach from the local government bodies or the approved regional council - I note that the Minister for Urban and Regional Development shook his head when I said that- 
I am glad to have the assurance that it is not bypassing the States. This is a most important assurance to have. I ask the Minister when he responds in this debate to set out in detail the way in which the States will be brought into this so that there will not be open the accusation that the Federal Government is bypassing the States. I ask the Minister to do that when he responds and to spell it out in detail. What we need to have is a full comprehensive policy. It will be a major purpose of my Party to develop this full comprehensive policy which will fit local governments into their correct perspective consistent with the correct constitutional and political responsibility of the States in relation to the Commonwealth. The 3 tiers of government must be real because the people of Australia look to any one of the 3 tiers for their services; they do not differentiate between them. We must have the clear responsibility stated and those who have the responsibility must have the power to carry it out. There would be great value in a Green Paper so that the Australian people can assess what is the overall intent of the Labor Government's policy in this area. 
I direct my question to the Prime Minister. Did he privately tell the telephone switch girls' union one thing in relation to bans on communications with French enterprises in Australia and did he say the opposite publicly? What is his Government's attitude to the present union bans? 
 Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
The second misrepresentation to which I referred was the misrepresentation by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in relation to the Pipeline Authority Bill. The rest of his diatribe I will ignore but on the Pipeline Authority Bill our position was made quite clear in this House by my colleague, the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  who moved an amendment to the second reading of this Bill, that the Opposition, through its policy committee, had not had ample time - indeed, it had had very little time - to consider its attitude to the Bill and any amemdments of detail which should be moved. Therefore, a general amendment was moved to the second reading of the Bill. We made it clear at the time that, because of a lack of time to consider the Bill in the Party and because of a guillotine on the Bill which would prevent us from moving all our amendments at the committee stages of the Bill, we would have to take a different attitude. It will be seen by a reference to the journals that we voted for our amendment and against- 
We voted against the second reading. 
Oh, be quiet, you foolish fellow. We voted against the second reading of the Bill in this chamber and made it clear that when the matter came to the Senate we would give it a passage through the second  reading stage because we were not objecting to the principle of the Bill but we wanted the Bill to appear in a better form than that in which it appeared in this House. There have been a number of amendments moved and about to be moved in the Senate and to suggest a change of attitude is to state what is wrong. What did happen was what was intended to happen and was the view of the Party. As to the interjection by the Prime Minister asking whether we voted in the Party room on this matter, the answer is no, we did not, because we do not believe in our Party that members who may form a very considerable minority should be totally ignored and overridden in their attitudes to policy, even if the honourable gentleman wants to use his numbers in this House in that way. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. I remind the honourable gentleman that last night he said that the Government had decided to proceed with the establishment of diplomatic relations with Poland and the German Democratic Republic or, in other words, East Germany. What instructions has the Prime Minister given for Australian action to end all foreign military presence in Poland and the German Democratic Republic in accordance with his Party's policy? 
Yes. 
This amendment is one of the 'three' to which the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  referred. The fourth amendment is one which will come later. I will not go on with it now. The Government now is not proposing to accept what was then the fourth amendment but will accept this amendment which I have moved. 
Amendment agreed to. 
 It is unfortunate that I must say that I believe that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has gone back on a clear undertaking given across the table of this House during the second reading stage of this Bill. It is a great shame that the Prime Minister should find himself in that position. It is not usual for a Prime Minister to be sitting in the chamber taking the Committee stages of a Bill. 
That is certainly true. It is more unusual for a Prime Minister to find himself not only taking the Bill but also proceeding with a set of amendments which he must well know - this is clear on the face of it - will completely undo an arrangement which he made publicly across the table. It is not a way in which the public would wish a Prime Minister to behave. It certainly is not the way in which the Opposition would expect a Prime Minister to behave. This situation arose out of the inclusion in clause 17 of the words: The Minister for Urban and Regional Development may, by instrument in writing'. We were discussing the principle of approving by an instrument in writing. 
The Prime Minister would know that in the Senate, when we were in office and the Labor Party was in Opposition, they continually insisted that the way in which these matters should be handled is by regulation not by instrument in writing because by regulation it is under the control of the Parliament. By instrument in writing it is under the control of nobody. We were discussing that principle and it was in relation to that that the Prime Minister clearly said: 'I accept that'. I said: 'I appreciate that. It will be moved by somebody on this side of the House that the words "by regulation" be substituted for the words "by instrument in writing".' They were the words I used.  Mr Whitlam  then said: 'The consequence being that if either House objected to the regulation it could be disallowed'. In pursuance of that conversation I had drawn up some amendments which were circulated and shown to the Government. My second amendment was to clause 17 to omit the words 'instrument in writing' and substitute the word 'regulation'. I am unable to know whether the Prime Minister ever saw that amendment, but it is consistent with what was said. There can be no doubt about that. 
When these amendments were put to the Government we were told from the Government side that it did not like the idea of putting 'regulation' in the wording of clause 17 because by putting it there it would mean that the Minister for Urban and Regional Development would make a regulation about that matter whereas the Minister responsible for the administration of the Bill, the Special Minister of State,  Senator Willesee,  would be making all the other regulations. There were consultations on the Government side. The Parliamentary Draftsman looked at the matter and he - I am informed that it was the Parliamentary Draftsman and from examining it I am sure it must have been - suggested that the proper method was to eliminate the whole of clause 17 and to include in clause 27 the regulation making power which would pick up what was contained in clause 17. My colleague and friend, the honourable and learned member for Parramatta  (Mr N. H. Bowen),  accepted that suggestion, saw me and asked whether I would accept it. I said yes. That, so far as we knew, was to be the end of it. 
Last night the Prime Minister came to me with a new form of words in which the breach of the public undertaking was contained. He wanted to leave in clause 17 although certainly it was proposed to change the wording concerned with approved by instrument in writing. It left the clause providing that the Minister for Urban and Regional Development can approve- just simply 'approve'. There would be no control by the Parliament as the Prime Minister said in his interjection and to which he agreed. 
What is clear is that the Prime Minister has breached his agreement. I believe he has breached his agreement because of the pressure put upon him by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren).  Everybody in this place knows that there was a struggle between  Senator Willesee  and  Mr Uren.  The way it has come out is that the Prime Minister is breaching a clear arrangement because he does not have either the will or the courage to stand up and say: 'I gave this undertaking. This is the way it is going to be'. If the Prime Minister persists with the breaking of his agreement he will not only be breaching all the concern for the parliamentary institution that he has shown over the years but also he will be demonstrating that he does not have the strength to stand up to his own Minister. 
 I was gagged on the last amendment because the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  apparently did not want to have me answer the continual misrepresentation that he makes. The 4 amendments which I put to him arising out of my question in the morning had no relationship in any shape or form to this issue of clause 17 dealing with 'instrument in writing or regulation'. It had relation to 3 of the amendments related to consultation with the States. It was the issue of consultation with the States. That had to be rendered in 4 separate amendments. They are: 
Clause 17, page 6, after the word 'may' insert the words 'after consultation with the appropriate Minister of the State concerned'. 
Clause 17, page 6, line 24, after the word 'may' insert the words 'after consultation with the appropriate Minister of the State concerned'. 
Clause 18, page 6, line 40, after the word 'may' insert the words 'after consultation with the appropriate Minister of the State concerned'. 
Those 3 amendments dealt with that question. The fourth amendment was: 
Clause 18, page 7, line 10, after the word 'Minister' insert the words 'and to the appropriate Minister of the State concerned'. 
That is to whom the report goes. That was the substance of a separate amendment. There was absolutely no consultation between the Prime Minister and me or communication on the issue untilI spoke in the House on this simple principle of whether the Minster is to act by instrument in writing or by regulation. I will read the words and I will read the whole part that is relevant. I said: 
I thank the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  for making that indication- 
 World wide economic management over the last 2 years has had its difficulties. In Australia, stimulus applied throughout 1972 and especially in the Budget last year provided the momentum for the economy to recover from its slack period. It currently is performing very well. This is an achievement of the last Government, not of this Government. Production, employment, incomes and spending are rising strongly in aggregate, and most sectors are participating in the rise. Gross domestic product is expected to be about 12 per cent higher in current prices in this financial year and about 4.9 per cent higher in terms of constant prices. This is a faster rate of growth than the 3.2 per cent (constant prices) that was achieved in 1971-72 and about in line with the average of 5.1 per cent (constant prices) rate of growth over the previous decade. Manufacturing output is rising strongly across the board. The building industry is extremely busy, the retailers are enjoying better sales than ever and farm income is likely to rise again in the next financial year after experiencing quite a dramatic lift of around 80 per cent in the current financial year. 
These are the normal symptoms of an economy in the upswing of the business cycle - an upswing set in train by the expansionary fiscal and monetary policies of the previous Government and aided by the soaring export prices which world wide economic revival has generated. Even so, the economy is not free of some major trouble spots. Large sectors of the mining industry have been hard hit by currency revaluations, by Government hostility to overseas investment, by the removal of exploration incentives and the burden of the 25 per cent deposit requirement on borrowed funds. As a result, what was once the leading growth point in the economy is now languishing, profitless, in a sea of uncertainty. 
Capital investment still shows no sign of revival. There is a danger that the uncertainties which Government policies and attitudes have created about the future profitability of Australian industry will seriously delay decisions to expand, limiting growth and future employment opportunities. That is something to be measured in the future. The steel industry, which has been subjected to a massive fiscal squeeze, has already deferred the expansion plans needed to keep Australian capacity growing in line with local industrial needs. As the spending boom develops, great pressure will be put on production capacity, of which danger signs have already been flashed. 
Inflation is the implacable enemy within the economy. That is the enemy we need to fight and whatever we may think about current improvements, we can only be unhappy about the prospect of growing inflation. Most developed economies at present face the same problem. Most countries have responded with varying measures and with varying success. It is no comfort to the social victim of inflation to be told that his problem is shared by many other people in many other countries of the world. His discomfort is worsened by signs that inflation is accelerating to double figures in Australia. His hope is dashed because the Government has some extraordinarily naive and one-sided ideas about what needs to be done to contain inflation. 
At a time when the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  is speaking about giving leads to the world, there is one lead that I am sure the world will not follow and that is his idea that inflation is contained by controlling prices alone. It is a unique approach that no other country has. All other countries realise that it is a two-pronged income-prices policy which must be pursued. 
The Government has stated one of its objectives to be a better deal for the economically disadvantaged. Who suffers most from inflation? The answer is the economically disadvantaged. Labor promises a greater sense of national entity and purpose - how can you have national entity and purpose if all that you are doing is eroded by the effects of inflation? Labor promises a social and economic environment that is fair and progressive. How can it be fair when there is uncertainty? How can ii be progressive when nobody knows what the future holds? Labor promised all these things. It declared that it would have a coherent economic strategy to be worked out with the full participation of business.  1  will very briefly list some of Labor's more notorious performances. Since December  1972  the Labor Government has revalued our currency  19  per cent against the United States dollar. The Labor Government argued for a national wage increase of  $11.50.  Fortunately the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission rebuffed the Government's arguments and rejected them. The 
Labor Government has set up machinery for prices justification without any attempt to deal with incomes. It is a ridiculously bad plan even for its intended purpose. Indeed, the legislation was so bad that there was no possibility of producing amendments which would make it workable in any real sense. 
The Labor Government proposes to abolish sanctions against unions in the industrial system and to erode the authority of the Arbitration Commission to settle strikes and to protect the public interest. Cost-push inflation would be encouraged by the adoption of collective bargaining based -on union strength rather than on the merits of a case. The Labor Government is committed to major government spending by the creation of a number of new departments such as the Department of Urban and Regional Development. There will be excessive government spending as the impact emerges in the next Budget which the Federal Treasurer, licking his lips, has said would be a good Budget. Good for whom? Good for Labor's political cause but not good for the national interest It is just a political Budget we have been promised, not an economic management Budget. 
The Labor Government has stated that it will act as the pacesetter through Public Service wages and conditions and will use its activity in this area as a lever to force the private sector of the economy to gear up wages and conditions. Realists will see it as a direct appeal for the votes of public servants. The Labor Government has recklessly attacked the permanent building societies for the interest rates they pay to people who invest their savings in those societies, and then the Commonwealth itself, at the same time as it is denouncing the societies' rates, has raised its own long term bond rate from  6  per cent to  6i  per cent with a consequential increase at the shorter end. Anybody who looks at the money market now must be wondering bow on earth the Treasurer will fill the next Commonwealth loan without further raising interest rates. The Treasurer is a member of a party which constantly argues for cheap interest rates, but while so arguing it increases the interest rates. 
The Government has frightened off foreign investment in all sectors and specifically has withdrawn taxation concessions on mining and oil exploration. It fails to understand the difference between the specu- lative and the genuine investment in the mining sector. The Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  certainly has plenty of energy in his condemnation, even though we might be left with all the minerals in the ground. What a magnificent monument to him it will be as Minister for Minerals and Energy, with all the energy in condemnation and all the minerals in the ground! 
The Labor Government has foreshadowed all kinds of taxation reforms with an obsession to get at the rich. The only problem is that according to the Labor Party you are rich if you have a taxable income of $100 a week. I have never understood that $100 a week would make a person qualify to be described as rich. That is what the Labor Party believes. Unfortunately, it is in government and can make its attitudes real by legislation. Family and other tax deductions are to be removed. They have some explanation for it, illogical though it is. Their proposal is that people with families - people paying out for hospital and medical expenses and insurance for the future - are to lose those deductions. 
There are a great many middle income earners, single people and wage earners, whose children are self supporting and who will be sacrificed in the name of 'the welfare state'. We all want to provide proper, progressive and adventurous social welfare policies, but we do not want to make Australia a social welfare state in its worst form - as England faced. It brought England to its knees under a Labor government. As an example of future taxation measures I mention the proposed national health insurance scheme which provides for direct taxation at the rate of 1.35 per cent of a person's total income, not taxable income. 
I am reminded that it is just a start. It started off way below 1.35 per cent. It has now been lifted to 1.35 per cent. The Government has said that there will be a ceiling of $150 on each person, but it is each person in a family. 
I am reminded by my colleague the honourable member for Sturt that it is only for the first period. 
Again I am reminded, this time by the honourable member for 
Henty, that there is no tax deduction. In other words, we are to understand that this great Utopia is not really a Utopia. It is a Pandora's box. Once you lift the lid you have no idea of what will jump out. It is certainly clear that the percentage of 1.35 and the limit of $150 are only the opening bid. This method easily lends itself to being jacked up again for the welfare state. 
The Treasury states in its latest bulletin that production and employment are continuing to grow strongly. There is now full employment but inflationary pressures are evident, as are both demand-pull and cost-push pressures. It is hardly a legitimate means of dampening down demand-pull inflation to make irresponsible statements on private lending in housing, as the Treasurer is constantly making. We will feel the effects of his statements in 3 or 4 months time when I believe there will be a downturn in the rate of increase in housing approvals. At what cost is the price to be paid for a Treasurer who says he is on top, not on tap? He might finish up in the tip, along with his policies. At present the economy is running in a truly mixed fashion. It is mixed in the sense that it contains major elements of Liberal Party initiative and certain elements of Labor Party interference. 
The Government has a spate of ad hoc unco-ordinated legislation. The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, who has just interjected, is a great ad hoc-er. He is the most unco-ordinated Minister of the bunch. The Government has foreshadowed legislation through such ministerial verbosity that much of the Australian business community is suffering from future shock. Like Alvin Toffer's victims of future shock the people in the business community are unable in an environment that is unfamiliar, rapidly changing and unpredictable, to make a reasonably correct assessment on which rational behaviour and sound judgment depend. 
What could have been a sensible attempt to balance, economic growth against other objectives has become a narrow prejudice against immigration which threatens to slow our rate of development, limit our room for economic manoeuvre and dry up opportunities for all Australians. Restriction of immigration, in spite of the rationalisations of the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby),  is occurring. It is important that Australia be allowed to grow and not be subject to zero growth-zero population pessimism. Labor supporters are so pessimistic that they do not even believe in Australia. 
The lack of understanding of economic matters of the Prime Minister, his obvious difficulties in keeping individual Ministers to a coherent plan, and a Treasurer who is increasingly fumbling compound the Government's difficulties. Instead of facing them and solving them, the Government turns to the old recipe of increasing centralisation and bureaucratic control of economic decision making. 
As the share market has already signalled by carving  16  per cent off the value of all listed shares since January  1973,  the Government has produced a recipe for stagnation rather than for the prosperity and growth to which we have become accustomed. This condition is the result of the shocks of the Government's decision to revalue and interest rates which are beginning to rise; but most important is the psychological factor of having a Government which in no way can be conceived of as an ally of anybody who invests his savings in anything. There are alternative economic concepts which need to be considered and from which the blueprint for Australia's growth and prosperity may be derived) The need for a prices and incomes policy has gained increased currency throughout the world as countries wrestle with the problem of creeping inflation. The Australian Government wishes it would go away but I am afraid that the wish will not be the author of the fact. 
We are faced with a situation where wage claims are more than is available from the national income without debasing the currency. This is a problem that traditional fiscal and monetary measures, such as higher taxes and higher interest rates, have great difficulty coping with. They may be sufficient to control demand-push inflation but these traditional weapons have looked like a suicide sword in the face of a combination of wage-cost push with demand-pull that seems to be threatening Australia today. In both the United Kingdom and the United States of America attempts at voluntary incomes policies have not met with much success. The wages-price compulsory freeze, instituted by  President  Nixon in August  1971  and followed by the second stage in which wages and prices were pegged to  5  per cent and  2i  percent respectively, did meet with success, though that success has now waned. This suggests that coercion sanctions are a necessary ingredient in designing incomesprices policies as a circuit breaker and regulator if neglect of policy over a period allows inflation to reach an advanced stage. That is the prospect for Australia at present. 
A recent report of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development stresses that an incomes-prices policy must be integrated into the social structure of the country so that government, employer and employee work in a co-operative manner. The traditional socialist class-difference talk does not achieve co-operation. It puts the parties into separate camps and just worsens the situation. Certainly the Government should not be egging on one side against the other. This kind of policy only undermines the peace and social structure of the country. A sense of certainty is vital to a country's economy. If economic encouragement is to be given in the form of investment allowances, export incentives and tax concessions or bounties, business leaders need to know whether they will continue. How else can rational decisions be made on investment, market developments and competitive prices decisions that run into the future? There must be a degree of economic planning to determine which sectors of the economy need assistance to provide overseas trade earnings. Within the country there must be a rational use of incentives to stimulate projects serving the national interest. The case of selective decentralisation is a ready example. In any economy it is important that the taxation system be equitable as well as providing revenue for government spending. 
We do not need, nor should we face, the uncertainty to which I have referred. We do need positive, comprehensive plans to deal with inflation. We should have a determined policy. The Government should establish the order of priority for its proposals, say what is the cost of each proposal and when it will be implemented so that the public can be informed and give co-operation. The Government should establish a program to halt price rises and excess wage increases and state the guidelines which it adopts as the acceptable level of increases in wages and prices. The Government should give leadership to the people of Australia to be an achieving country. It should acknowledge that progress does not fall by chance from heaven. National rewards are earned by work and effort and meeting competition from other countries. The Government must recognise that a shorter working week coupled with increasing costs of materials and labour and recurrent strikes will cripple us and remove our capacity to improve health, education and social welfare standards in Australia. 
The Government must face up to and establish responsible attitudes to public finance, public expenditure and government wage rates and conditions. It must not be the pace setter. The example it gives will run right through State and local governments and the business community. The Government has a clear duty to control inflation. In 1971 inflation was running at 7 per cent. We brought it down to 4.6 per cent in 1972. Now it is at an annual rate of 8 per cent and we are faced with a double figure rate by the end of the year. It is really important that Australia prospers, not that an idelogy triumphs without regard to economic realities. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
<para pgwide="yes">Will he list all international agreements, conventions or other arrangement signed, ratified or in any other way entered into by the Government since 2 December 1972 and indicate the position which has been reached in respect of each of them. 
asked the Minister for Foreign 
Affairs, upon notice: 
Will  he provide details of (a) the decisions so far made and (b) the dates on which each decision was announced, to put into effect the  $15m  aid  program for the countries of the South Pacific to the end of 1975, which was announced by the Government in 1972. 
What is the estimated cost of each of the projects on which a decision has been made. 
What sum has been provided to each of the countries to be covered by the program to date. 
Is there any country, coming within the scope of the program which has not yet received aid under the program. 
asked the Minister for Envir  onment and Conservation, upon notice: 
What is the (a) number and (b) nature of environment impact statements which (i) have been issued or (ii) are in preparation, and what are the expected dates of completion of the latter group. 
Which agencies or consultants have been employed in the work leading to the preparation of each of the statements. 
asked the Minister for Foreign 
Affairs, upon notice: 
Can he provide details of (a) the nuclear weapons tests carried out by the People's Republic of China during the last 5 years, (b) the dates on which these tests took place, (c) the location of these tests and (d) the explosive power of each device tested. 
asked the Minister for Foreign 
Affairs, upon notice: 
Will he provide details of the decisions made by the Government since 2 December 1972 to provide aid to developing countries and international organisations. 
Which of these decisions were made on the initiative of the present Government, and which arose out of decisions made by the previous Government. 
I ask the Treasurer the following question: Given the state of the economy and the already large deficit expected, will the Treasurer exercise constraint on government spending? Is the Government working to a fully formulated order of spending priorities? In the preparation of the Budget will he consider the serious inflationary effects of excessive government spending? 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. The honourable gentleman has announced that the May loan raised $80.5m, of which 46 per cent has been placed in short term August 1975 securities. Does the Treasurer regard that as being a satisfactory result? If not, what action will he take to increase suport for the next loan, which I believe is to be in July? Does he intend taking any action relating to government bond interest rates against competing money market interest rates? 
We have just had a statement from the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  which was grandly entitled in Latin - I do not guarantee the pronunciation - 'Apologia Pro Vita Sua'. Apparently one should not take the word 'sua' as being spelt as it is normally spelt in English but as it is spelt in Latin. Apparently it is an apology for the life of the Prime Minister. From the title, the whole tone is set - as sarcasm, a swollen head and confusion. The basic assumption is that multiplying members of boards, task forces, Bills and treaty ratifications is a measure of actual achievement. It rests on the Fabian view that a pamphlet changes and achieves, and pamphlets do not do that. It has the ring of rusting carriage wheels, it is so old. It attempts to measure performance by quantity instead of quality. It goes through this extraordinary process of thanking both sides of the House. The way in which the Government has ruthlessly used numbers in this House- (Honourable members interjecting) 
 Foreign policy is an integral part of the total national policy of all countries and will be seen as serving that country's own national interest. We can and do exercise influence directly and through multi-national organisations on the actions of other countries, but our own national interest is the real basis on which all foreign policy decisions must ultimately be made. Foreign policy must serve the interests and promote the welfare and security of the Australian people. We live in closer contact today with our fellow men than ever before. We must, therefore, be more tolerant, more generous and franker in our international relationships than ever before. But Australia must always assert its independence of decision and freedom of choice in foreign policy. We must recognise that we live in a world where interdependence, mutual trust and effective cooperation is essential. This makes foreign policy one of the most dynamic and at the same time complex aspects of national policy. 
The last 2 decades of growth in Australian diplomatic capacity were also ones of vast change in the international scene - changes to which the Liberal Party was able to adjust in a mature and statesmanlike fashion because a major element of its foreign policy was flexibility. We acted after proper consideration of the national interest and with circumspection, never with impetuosity. We faced the critical years of reconstruction after the war and the bitter years of the cold war. We dealt with the upheaval in international affairs over recent years when the Vietnam conflict and the emergence of new great powers transformed the international environment. We recognise that military strength is not the sole criterion of the 'great power*. There are many factors which made the United States of America, the Soviet Union, China, Japan, Europe and India the major actors on the world stage. We were in the process of fitting 
Australia's foreign policy to the new multipolar realities of the world and to the emerging spirit of detente which we have always sought to encourage. 
In the spirit of the emerging detente we, in government, established diplomatic relations with several eastern European countries including Yugoslavia, where we established a diplomatic mission as early as 1966. The Labor Government has damaged relations with Yugoslavia through naive and impetuous bungling. We must also ask how the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  now reconciles his Government's close ties with countries such as Poland and East Germany and his Party's stated policy to work for an end to all foreign military presences in those countries. Last week he conceded that nothing has been done to implement his Party's policy, though he would presumably claim a mandate to do so, and it has not been taken up with the governments concerned. 
The Prime Minister's sincerity must be questioned in saying as he did in his foreign policy statement that 'the Government has decided to establish diplomatic relations with Poland'. The Liberal-Country Party Government did that in February 1972. Did his memory fail him or was he unaware that on 20 February 1972 in a joint communique the Australian and Polish Governments announced that they had 'decided to enter into diplomatic relations at ambassadorial level'? 
The basic elements of the policy developed during those dynamic years appears to have the approval of the present Government from what the Prime Minister has declared. He has said that 4 commitments are the bases of the Labor Party's foreign policy. These were first, our own national security; secondly, a secure, united and friendly Papua New Guinea; thirdly, achieve closer relations with our nearest and largest neighbour, Indonesia; fourthly, promote the peace and prosperity of our neighbourhood. None of these is new. The Liberal Party has actively pursued each of them. Not one of these purposes has been advanced by the Labor Government's actions since 2 December. Instead, our national security is jeopardised. Papua New Guinea has been alienated in the most arrogant fashion. Indonesia has rebuffed the Prime Minister and his plans for a grand new regional design. The neighbourhood to which he refers is confused and bewildered as to just what the Australian Labor Government is doing. 
The Australian people are greatly concerned. At one moment the Prime Minister claims bold new initiatives - at the next a continuation of former Government policy. It is essential in these circumstances to make clear the major purposes of the Liberal Party in foreign policy. It is important thai the Australian people should know what we stand for. We are for an independent, coherent and responsible foreign policy as we always have been. Vague talk of neutralism and nonalignment serves no useful purpose and can only cause friendly nations to question our integrity and purpose. It is therefore heartening to note that the Prime Minister has at last rejected non-alignment for Australia and has specifically committed his Government to a policy of alignment. He has, of course, characteristically neglected to say alignment with what or whom. We do not yet know that. But what did the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Barnard)  mean when he argued on 3 April - I ask the  Deputy  Prime Minister who is at the table to listen to my quotation of his own remarks for if he is to follow me he may be able to give an answer to it - for the development of 'bonds of inter-dependence between countries'. He then pointed out that 'neutrality will follow from inter-dependence'. 
The Deputy Prime Minister. Has the myth of neutralism for Australia been rejected by the Government? 
I do not know. The question that I put to the Deputy Prime Minister was: Has the myth of neutralism for Australia also been rejected by the Government? I was quoting him. The Deputy Prime Minister said to me: 'You would not know'. That is the truth; I do not know. I am asking what the Government's view is. The Deputy Prime Minister will not answer because he has not had instructions. For the Liberal Party, independence of action and decision is, and always has been, the essential factor. It must be regarded as basic to all foreign policy action. We will consult our allies and friends within the context of the alignment the Government now apparently acknowledges. 
We are for close and continuing relations with the United States of America and New Zealand. We support ANZUS as an essential element of our total international relationships. We will not stand by and see ANZUS eroded either deliberately or by default. The insensitive and brash actions of the Labor Government, and particularly some Ministers over whom the Prime Minister seems unable to assert his authority, have caused a serious decline in the close ties that Australia established between 1949 and 1972 with the United States. Our relations will undergo change as they must, but this does not mean that our links should be weakened. It is regrettably very late for the conciliatory tone that the Prime Minister injected into his 24 May statement. The harm done by the words of three of his Ministers was made indelible by the Prime Minister's failure to rebuke them or even to dissociate himself from the sentiments. The 24 May statement restored the United States as 'our great ally'. Yet a week later the Prime Minister presumes to tell the  President  of the United States that he ought to hold regular Press conferences and revamp the Government of the United States so he and the Presidency itself 'would not be in their present parlous position*. 
The arrogance and insult of such a statement condemn the man who made it. The Prime Minister has said: 
ANZUS is a legal embodiment of the common interests of the people of Australia, New Zealand and the United States. Those interests remain constant beyond changes of administration in Washington, Wellington or Canberra. 
I endorse those sentiments. I am sure most Australians would do so. I wish the Prime Minister and his colleagues would live up to them. 
We are for a co-operative relationship with New Guinea based on mutual respect in accordance with policies introduced when we were in government. We endorse the attainment of self-government later this year. Independence must be a matter for the people of Papua New Guinea or their representatives to decide. We are a colonial power only because we have an obligation to the people of Papua New Guinea. It is not for us to say when Papua New Guinea will be independent. We have a responsibility to Papua New Guinea and we have an obligation on which we cannot and must not walk out. Under no circumstances and at no time now or in the future should we attempt to impose our will on the people of Papua New Guinea or their elected representatives. Again the Prime Minister has failed to assert control over his Ministers, one of whom arrogantly presumed to tell the people of Papua New Guinea how to run their airline system. It was a dramatic example of narrow personal prejudice being permitted to damage relations with our neighbour. The Prime Minister did nothing about it. In the future we shall have a clear obligation to provide aid at a continuing high level. As with all aid, this should be provided without strings and at the request of the Papua New Guinea Government - not on a whim from Canberra. 
We support, as we always have, the strengthening of our ties at all levels and in all fields with Indonesia, Japan and the countries of the South Pacific. Our relationship with each of these will continue to be of great mutual significance. I have referred to the problems which have already arisen with Indonesia over the Prime Minister's undiplomatic efforts to press his vague ideas on regional organisation. Problems are now emerging with Japan. The Australia-Japan Business Co-operation Committee has been critical of the Government's failure to clearly define its policies in relation to trade and investment. A leading Japanese trade negotiator has referred to the Government's 'all too hasty' policy actions in relation to export prices, shipping and natural resources. 
With respect to the South Pacific, the uncalled-for presumption of the Prime Minister and the Labor Party was well illustrated in their policy speech before the last election. The Prime Minister said: 
We should be the natural leaders of the South Pacific. A Labor government will give that leadership. . . 
He referred to 2 immediate issues as examples. Who are we to assert that we are anybody's natural leader? We may aspire to be a friendly partner, but to claim for Australia the role of leadership is not only insensitive but also absurd. That statement, together with the Prime Minister's posturing with the use of HMAS 'Vampire' at the recent South Pacific Forum, has served to alienate many of our friends in the South Pacific. Perhaps it is not surprising; but it is tragic because it is unnecessary. It has undone much of the effort in developing our role - a modest but helpful role) - in the South Pacific Forum by the previous Government. It is noteworthy that on his return from the South Pacific Forum the Prime Minister felt sufficiently chastened by the coolness of his reception to drop his claim to leadership and say that his Government 'in no way wishes to dominate in the region'. The point is that 'it should never have presumed to do so. 
We continue to .place special emphasis on Australia's relationship with the countries of South-East Asia and the Indian sub-continent. The total Asian-Pacific partnership is crucial to any efforts we might make to ensure Australia's full and effective contribution to international stability, progress and welfare. In this respect the Deputy Prime Minister has claimed that the 'treatment of India by the previous Government is a prime example of neglect due to India's perceived irrelevance to Australia's defence'. The absurdity of that statement is obvious. The very close and understanding relationship which we in government had with India is well known. It should be nurtured by continued high level representation and regular consultations to explain our policies and attitudes. 
We sought, when in government, to normalise Australia's relationship with the People's Republic of China. There were differences on both sides, determined in large part by the events of the tumultuous post-war years when the Government of the People's Republic of China was established. We sought, in a spirit of co-operation, to overcome these difficulties. Talks were begun in an effort to further this development. (Extension of time granted.) I thank the House. We had close links in several fields and it was our intention to continue that progress towards an amicable and mutually acceptable arrangement. In Opposition the Labor Party made an open-ended commitment to recognise and establish diplomatic relations with Peking. It was left without any negotiating ground. The basis on which relations were established is evidence of that. But, while we have reservations about the precise terms on which recognition was negotiated, relations have been established. We accept the reality of the situation. We would not wish to damage Australia's existing relationship with the People's Republic of China. 
We will work for the further development of our long and traditional relationship with Britain and the countries of the 'New Europe'. Our fundamental cultural ties continue to be with Europe and much of our social and political sustenance is drawn from there. The enlarged European Economic Community offers us the unique opportunity to expand this relationship. But it will be a 2- way .process of mutual benefit. The Govern- ment must ensure that this opportunity is not lost, for we stand to gain much from it. We must also fit into this context the new Atlantic Charter which indicates the dynamic role the United States and others might play in the new Europe. 
A matter of immediate significance to al) Australians in our relations with Europe is the question of the continuation of French nuclear testing in the atmosphere in the Pacific. We value our long-standing friendly relationship with France and we would nol wish to see this damaged. I stated recently that we strongly oppose atmospheric nuclear testing by any country and our feelings must be aroused when such testing is conducted in our own region and against the wishes of most Australians. The Liberal Party sees danger in the proliferation of devices of nuclear war which threaten the future cf mankind, and all Australians deplore any action which in any way threatens the earth's environment and possibly the lives of people now or in the future. We are unequivocal in our opposition to all atmospheric testing of nuclear weapons by any country. 
We support the maximum possible aid to developing countries within the means of cur country. The Liberal Party Government made Australia one of the world's leading aid donors with virtually all aid given as grants. Aid should not be used to further our own interests. It should be provided in response to the needs of our fellow men in a humanitarian spirit. There is need for continuing increases in our aid programs to assist, in particular, our neighbours in Asia and the Pacific. We support the United Nations and endorse its charter, just as we endorse the principles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We will continue to work, as we did in government, to strengthen the United Nations as a body to alleviate the suffering of all peoples and to maintain the peace and stability of our international community. 
In his Statement last Wednesday, the Prime Minister discovered the importance of resources. Though there is no evidence of it from his statement, the Prime Minister should have known that the previous Government had taken action through the Department of Trade and Industry and the Department of Foreign Affairs to develop a resources diplomacy for Australia, particularly in view of the rapid consumption of the world's resources and the real prospect of an energy crisis. We did not, of course, seek to use it to bolster our personal or national prestige. 
We regarded it as a matter of diplomacy - not public relations or gunboat diplomacy. The previous Government had for many years been concerned and had acted to develop not only a resources diplomacy but also a trade diplomacy, an immigration diplomacy, an international transport diplomacy and many other diplomacies. From his statement the Prime Minister seems unaware of the complexities of the field of foreign policy - a field which he has said he finds 'exhilarating'. The previous Government considered it sufficiently complex and important to be regarded as a full-time job. 
During the years of Liberal-Country Party Government, Australia became a respected member of the international community, especially in Asia and the Pacific. When the Labor Government came to power in 1972 it inherited a widely respected foreign policy. We had developed a distinctive role in keeping with our character as a European people located on the periphery of Asia between the great Pacific and Indian Oceans. We had the confidence of other nations. Now we can only be dismayed at the uncertainty and doubt in the minds of our friends and neighbours. For example, the Governor-General's Speech said that the Government 'will honour the terms of the Five-Power Arrangements, but looks forward to the achievement of a neutral zone in South East Asia ultimately involving the phasing out of present military arrangements such as the Five-Power Arrangements'. The uncertainty and confusion that that view and subsequent qualifications and contradictions have aroused in our neighbourhood does not need to be elaborated. Another example is in the Prime Minister's statement last week that SEATO 'must be modified if it is not to become completely moribund'. If it is to be modified he should say how this might be done - or does he intend to let it become completely moribund? The Australian people and our allies deserve an answer to that question. 
The Government has spoken on several occasions of its support for proposals for neutralisation in South East Asia and the Indian Ocean. But this does not represent a new definition of the role, of foreign policy. It does not explain where the Government is going or what its intentions are. It is deliberately vague. There is now an urgent need for the Government to make clear what its foreign policy and its defence policy - if one can be decided upon - amount to. The regional cooperation for which we actively worked and which we will continue to support is being undermined. The Government must define how it sees Australia's total role in our ocean and archipelago environment. 
The Government's attitude to Australia's role in relation to the Indian Ocean and its littoral states should be defined. The Prime Minister did not do so in his statement. Similarly, as I have already mentioned, the Prime Minister took it upon himself to suggest to the nations of our region that they should form some sort of amorphous regional organisation.  His  reception, particularly in countries such as Indonesia, is well known and can only have damaged our standing. Having been rebuffed he is now prepared to concede that the development of any such organisation or arrangements would be a 'slow and delicate growth'. It should also, of course, be the subject of diplomatic and proper consultation with the countries that might be involved. 
One can hardly criticise a government for keeping its options reasonably open. However, no option in the history of international relations can ever have been so open as the one the Prime Minister has now declared to be his bold new initiative. What does he mean when he says: 'We remain completely flexible on the timing, structure and membership of any future arrangements'. It could mean anything and we must assume that it is intended to do so. If that reflects the sort of proposal he put to others it is little wonder that they have shown bemusement. The Government's impetuosity in international affairs has not been tempered by the salutory experience of actually having to do the job instead of theorising. Until it learns it will continue to damage Australia's interests. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
What was the numerical strength of each of the three branches of the Armed Forces including the Citizens' Military Forces, on 2 December 1972. 
What are the equivalent numbers now. 
What is the current rate of recruitment to each of the three branches of the Armed Forces, including the Citizens' Military Forces. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
In view of the Government's support for the United Nations resolution 2992 (XXVII), adopted on 15 December 1972, which calls on littoral states such as Australia to support the Zone of Peace concept for the Indian Ocean, and as a result of which Australiais a member of the United Nations ad hoc 
Committee appointed to study the implications of the proposal, with special reference to the practical measures that may be taken to implement United Nations resolution 2832 (XXVI) of 16 December 1971, entitled Declaration of the Indian Ocean as a Zone of Peace, will he indicate (a) the Government's attitude towards the concept of the Indian Ocean as a Zone of Peace in the terms set down in resolution 2832, (b) the implications for Australia of this proposal with particular reference to foreign and defence policy, (c) how many meetings the ad hoc Committee has held and how many of these Australia has attended and in what capacity and (d) what action Australia has taken as a member of the ad hoc Committee to date. 
asked the Minister for Immi gration, upon notice: 
How many approvals were given for (a) people to migrate to Australia to settle permanently, (b) people who visit Australia and (c) overseas students to attend Australian (i) schools and (ii) tertiary institutions, during the period 1 January 1973 to 31 March 1973. 
From which countries did the people in each category in part (1) come, and what were the numbers involved in each case. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Will he list all take-over proposals which have been (a) cleared and (b) rejected as a result of consideration under the terms of the Companies (Foreign Take-overs) Act since 2 December 1972. 
How many proposals are currently under consideration. 
I have much pleasure in seconding the motion moved by- the Prime Minister for it is a motion dealing with a man for whom those who served with him have a very special regard. Eight months ago many of us farewelled Arthur Calwell from this House. We thanked him for his contribution- one that ranged over 32 unbroken years. We wished him well in retirement, but he was not to enjoy a long retirement. Arthur Calwell last spoke from the floor of this House on 26 October 1972. He spoke twice on that day. Both times he typified the man and his philosophy. In the morning he asked his last question without notice of the former Prime Minister. He sought an expression of the chance for lasting peace in Indo-China. Peace, particularly peace in IndoChina, was a goal he pursued with unfailing determination. Arthur Calwell gave his valedictory late that night. He spoke briefly- perhaps for 10 minutes- but the speech revealed as much about the man as anything else. He saw his life in this way: 
In all the time that I have been privileged to serve I have done my best. No man can say more. I have had my failures; I have had my successes; I have had a lot of disappointments. 
Many words have been spoken about Arthur Calwell since his death. Everyone has recognised the significant contribution of his service to the nation. Arthur Calwell was, above all, a man of the people. He identified with and was concerned with the underprivileged. Concern for the little man was a strong motivating force for him. It was the basis of his personal philosophy and it was his humanity which characterised his policy ambitions and personal relationships. 
On 20 November 1940 his speech in this chamber was an obituary. He spoke of his affection for  Dr Maloney  who had held the seat of Melbourne for many years before him. Arthur Calwell spoke in these terms of the funeral service with which  Dr Maloney  was honoured: 
The people were drawn from the ranks of the very humble, the sustenance workers, the invalid and old age pensioners and many others who had cause to remember urn during his lifetimenot merely because he was a good friend but also because he was a devoted servant of all of them. 
Several thousand people attended the service given to Arthur Calwell- one of the most impressive services ever held in Australia's history. They, too, came from every sector of the community. Many of them had the same feeling for Arthur Calwell as he had described about  Dr Maloney.  I am grateful to the Prime Minister for making a point of mentioning the presence there of  Sir Robert  Menzies, Arthur Calwell 's old political foe. 
Arthur Calwell 's concern for the interest of people made him an extremely popular man in his electorate. To be offensive to 'Cocky' in a North Melbourne pub was really to ask for trouble. His warm humanity is remembered today not only by those in this chamber but by everyone at Parliament House- the staff of both the House and Senate departments, officers of the Parliamentary Library and house attendants who have lasting memories of a man who was kind and generous to them. Arthur Calwell was also a man of crusades. He was passionate when he believed something strongly. I have referred to his dedication to peace in Indo-China. Associated with that, in his mind, was the issue of conscription. He had a deep concern for welfare, equality and the rights of individuals and he had a great vision of Australia. 
Unquestionably, his greatest mark on today's Australia is the immigration program he pioneered. In his very first speech he spoke of the need to populate Australia. He fostered his idea of a big and growing Australia at a time when it met with much opposition. We hear echoes of that opposition today. But he was undaunted. He fought hard for his belief, and he won. Much of Australia's growth and development, its cultural diversity and its uniqueness that this generation enjoys and succeeding ones will enjoy is due to the insight and intelligence Arthur Calwell displayed. He spent 4 years as Australia's first Immigration Minister and established a program which succeeding Ministers have been proud to continue. That single contribution alone has placed him as a great Australian. 
Arthur Calwell 's regard for Parliament, the institution and its functions, never faltered. He left the Parliament still wishing to see the institution have great eminence. In his final words in the House he again expressed his respect for Parliament in these terms: ... the supreme elective body in the whole nation. Arthur Calwell was always a tough man, a rugged man and a strong man. He spoke with frankness and expected the same in return. He was a man for a fierce fight, who rarely backed down or sought the easy compromise. In 1966 he survived the only assassination attempt on an Australian politician. That was in mid-campaign, and with typical Calwell courage he refused to accept it as a set-back and went on, as he himself put it, determined to have his turn at being Prime Minister. He had a sharply honed sense of humor which he often employed as a savage political weapon. I need not remind those sitting here of his wit, but I give just one example. Just recently, after 30 years in the Parliament, he said this of a senior politician: 
Whenever I look at him - 
I interpolate to protect the innocent- on television I look at an animated toad that croaks like a frog. 
On the Speaker's calling him to order he replied with typical Calwell panache: 
I am sorry,  Sir. Have  I offended? 
He was a man who gave criticism readily and often throughout his political career. Perhaps he was always aware that he would do so, because he made the following remarks in his early parliamentary days as though to apologise for all that would follow: 
I bear no malice towards honourable members oppositeany criticism offered is purely impersonal. I hope they will bear with me as I bear with them. In the spirit of scriptural injunction I suffer them gladly. 
Arthur Calwell was eminently Australian, a basic down-to-earth Australian. He was fond of referring to his horny hands and his sweat. Although he was brought into the palaces of the rich and famous he was never affected or over-impressed. He would have brought a humble and common touch to the great office of Prime Minister. He achieved elitism and yet he had a great dignity. Although he was being jocular when he made it there was a lot of truth in his claim that his face had its own rugged grandeur. Perhaps the best summary of his life was given by himself. He was a man who knew his failures and was ready to admit them even if with tongue in cheek. He told the House last year. 
I have not always been as kind and as generous as I should have been. I consider that half of the problems and difficulties I have met in life I created for myself. I do not think I should make any further concession to my political opponents and my critics than that. I will settle for half. 
He was not to enjoy the rest he had earned. To his wife and daughter I offer the deepest sympathy of my Party. Only they know the sacrifices he made to fulfil his commitment to Parliament, to his Party and to his electorate. They have now been robbed of the opportunity of enjoying some quieter hours with him. We deeply regret their loss. The nation owes much to the sacrifices they have made so that it could gain. Last year Arthur Calwell said: 
I have a record of which I am very proud. 
This House will agree that it is a record of which Australia is proud and for which it must be thankful. History will now honour that record. 
I would like to second the motion moved by the Prime Minister relating to Dugald Ranald Ross Munro. We were speaking earlier of Arthur Calwell and his Celt blood. Dugald Ranald Ross Munro is a fine name indeed. All of us were deeply saddened to hear of the tragic death of Dugald Munro and the almost freakish circumstances that caused that death on 20 June last. All of us feel deeply for his wife and 4 children. In these tragic and unforeseen circumstances they lost a husband and a father who was so young in years, spirit, attitudes and action, a man of such high integrity and principle. Their loss will be hard for them to bear and comfort will be difficult for them to achieve. On behalf of my colleagues in the Liberal Party, 1 offer  Mrs Munro  and her children our deepest condolences and the comfort of her knowing that we know and understand their sorrow. 
Dugald Munro 's service to the Parliament was brief-only one term of Parliament-but nonetheless it was of consequence. He was an able debater. He made a mark in those 3 years. He was always around the House. He was very active, especially in the committees of the government parties of the time, and after he left the Parliament he retained his interest in the Liberal Party and continued to serve the Liberal Party. He took the seat of Eden Monaro in 1966. In those elections he succeeded the late Allan Fraser, who was well known and respected in this House. Dugald Munro admired the contribution that had been made by Allan Fraser and sought earnestly to continue that contribution. He had a commitment to the future of Australia. As he put it himself in his maiden speech on 21 February 1967: 
I hope we can continue to build a great country here. May we always believe that with some wisdom, firm resolve, hard work and a little bit of luck - 
I interpolate to say that that is one commodity which in the end he did not have- we may continue to build a country in which we all can be happy and proud to live. 
That was Dugald Munro 's hope. It is one which we all shared with him and which we will try to achieve for those he has left behind. 

 Mr Speaker, I support the motion moved by the Prime Minister. On behalf of the Liberal Party I would like to extend my sympathy to the widow of  Sir Walter  Jackson Cooper.  Sir Walter  was one of the most distinguished of all who have served in the Senate. He was, as the Prime Minister said, Leader of the Australian Country Party in the Senate and at one time was in an Opposition of three.  His  period of service was long and valuable. It extended for 37 years. When he retired from the Senate in 1968 he had been a senator for a significantly longer period than half the life of the Senate. During that time he had seen Australia grow as a nation. He had witnessed enormous development of Australia and its people. He had played a major part in that development.  His  life inside and outside the Parliament marked him as one who made a great contribution to Australia. 
He arrived in Australia from England at the age of 19. Within three or four years, as a young man in his early twenties, he joined the Australian Imperial Forces. He saw action at Gallipoli, in Egypt and in France. At the age of 25 he lost his right leg. The determination he displayed in overcoming that disability is a fine example of his courage.  Sir Walter  entered the Parliament in 1928 and maintained throughout a deep commitment and dedication to the needs of ex-servicemen. He was Minister for Repatriation for a record term of 1 1 years, as has been said, and in that post he made a singular contribution. I have recalled  Senator Sir Walter  Cooper's outstanding achievements. He was often referred to as the father of the Senate. We are grateful for the service he so tirelessly and assiduously gave. We extend to his wife our deepest sympathy on the loss she has suffered. 

 Mr Speaker, I seek leave to make a statement. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister has said that the record of conversation made by  Sir John  Bunting and by his own principal private secretary  Dr Wilenski  bears out the Prime Minister's statement that no complaint was made to the Prime Minister by the Director-General of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation on 17 March last concerning the events of the day before, 16 March. Will he table these records of conversation? Will he also table such records of conversation as the Director-General,  Mr Barbour,  made. 
I ask leave to incorporate in Hansard the document which was tabled by the Prime Minister a short while ago. It is a declassified letter and bears the typewritten signature P. Barbour'. One assumes it is from him. It is a copy and bears the reference 50,008. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. If there is speculation as to which was the correct version in the newspapers of the telex message from the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation, will the Prime Minister table the telex message? If he will not table the telex message, will he give the reasons for not doing so? Will he agree that, as he has given his version of the conversation with the DirectorGeneral on 17 March, when the DirectorGeneral goes before the Senate Select Committee on Civil Rights of Migrant Australians he ought to be free to give his version of the conversation he had with the Prime Minister on 17 March? 
-Does the Prime Minister deny that the only reasonable construction that could be put on the words 'unprecedented', 'extraordinary ' and 'gravely damaging to ASIO and to the national security interest' is that a complaint was being made? 
I ask the Prime Minister: Did the Director-General of Security in the telex which he says he drafted and issued to the ASIO staff use the words 'unprecedented', 'extraordinary' and 'gravely damaging to ASIO and to the national security interests'? 
Has the Prime Minister had any conversation or conversations with the Director-General of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation,  Mr Barbour,  in which he, the Prime Minister, raised the possibility that a judge could be appointed as the DirectorGeneral of ASIO in place of  Mr Barbour?  If there have been any such conversations when did each occur? 
To bring this to a merciful end, I move: 
That the debate be now adjourned. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 48 REPRESENTATIVES 21 August 1973  Appropriation Bill (No.1) 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
How many non-Australian military personnel are currently stationed or training in Australia, what are their ranks and where are they stationed. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) What was the criteria used to determine the composition of the Australian Pre-Schools Committee and the Child Care Standards Committee with regard to the qualifications of each member, both in terms of practical experience and academic training. 
How many members of each committee have qualifications in pre-school education. 
How many members of each committee have been involved in management of pre-school centres. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
With reference to his answer to question No. 382 (Hansard, 10 May 1973, page 2049) in respect of activities of the Yugoslav Government within Australia, (a) who has the belief that the Yugoslav Government has sources of information within the Yugoslav community within Australia, (b) what is the nature of the belief and (c) on what basis was the belief formed. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. The Government has stated that it will increase basic pensions by $1.50 twice a year, making a $3 a year increase, until the pension reaches onequarter of the amount of average male weekly earnings. Does the Minister agree that with the current increase in average weekly earnings and the projected 13 per cent increase this year it is an  impossiblity  for pensions to catch up? Does he agree that  average weekly earnings are growing at such a rate that pensions are actually falling behind? Is this relative position worsened toy the effects of increased prices caused by inflation? If he agrees, why does he not correct this misapprehension in the minds of the Australian public, particularly the elderly? 
asked the Minister for Defence,  upon notice: 
What was the numerical strength of each of the three branches of the armed forces including the Citizen Military Forces, on 2 December 1973. 
What are the equivalent numbers now. 
What is the current rate of recruitment to  each  of the three branches of the armed forces, including the Citizen Military Forces. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Are figures available or can figures bc made available which indicate the percentage of the working population of the capital cities of Australia who go to work by (a) each type of public transport, (b) private car or (c) other means, for each of the last 10 years, if o, what are the figures. 
Does he intend to instigate any studies, or have any studies been completed in Australia, into the (a) desirability of introducing the the free-fare concept of public transport as a means of encouraging mass transit by public transport in order to relieve inner-city traffic congestion and pollution levels and (b) impact that introduction of a free-fare system nf public transport would have on commuter travel patterns in Australian capital cities, if so, what type of studies are involved. 
Does he intend to instigate, or have studies been instigated, to examine the relative cost/benefit practicality of the introduction of a road-use pricing system in preference to a free-fare public transport scheme, if so, what type of studies are involved. 
Have any other studies been completed in Australia or are there any other studies in progress or to be instigated which examine any other possible measures of alleviating inner-city traffic congestion and pollution levels, if so, what type of studies are involved. 
asked the Minister for Science, upon notice: 
Can he say what Acts have been enacted by (a) each State and (b) the Commonwealth to protect the rights of the consumer; if so, what are the major provisions of these Acts. 
Can he list the (a) Commonwealth, (b) State and (c) local government agencies concerned with consumer protection and (d) the private agencies concerned primarily with consumer protection. 
Does the Treasurer accept as a policy objective that the unemployment benefit should be equal to a person's former average weekly earnings? 
 I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: this House expresses disapproval of the Budget because it is economically irresponsible in that: 
with inflationary pressures intense it fails to adopt any policy to bring inflation under control; 
with resources already under strain it applies wrong economic principles by overloading resources further by expansionary public sector spending; 
it permits the tax burden to accelerate to an unprecedented level; 
it is a further step in the attack on the federal system of government by Labor which aims to centralise all decisions in Canberra; 
it jeopardises the future growth of living standard and economic development of the nation; 
it unfairly discriminates against the rural community and discourages decentralisation; 
it does not provide a framework of social equity; and 
it fails to honour election promises.' 
This Budget is devoid of any policy to deal with the fundamental problem we face today - runaway prices and crippling inflation. I intend to expose the faulty and misleading economic analysis of the Budget which is expansionary and inflationary even though the Government thinks it is neutral. Also I will outline our approach to the problem of inflation. This will be the only public policy because the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  has admitted the Budget does not have a policy against inflation. It is an expansionary Budget at a time when we are in boom conditions. Expansion is not the right treatment for an economy which is under resource pressure. The Treasurer admits on page 3 of his distributed Budget Speech: 
With resources under strain, however,we would be foolish to overload them further. 
He will overload them. On his own admission he is being foolish. The Treasury admits in Statement No. 2, page 7:  . . the overriding consideration in framing the Budget was that the economy at the outset of 1973- 74 was already under stress, with inflation the dominant worry. The major problem, therefore, was one of ensuring that the diversion of resources to the public sector needed to get major programs under way did not add to total demand pressures. 
It will add to total demand pressures. Inflation is harmful socially and economically while it runs. It capriciously redistributes incomes and savings. It forces the poor to enrich the strong. It breeds conditions which make counter action inevitable. The longer inflation runs the more drastic must be the cure. History shows this. Inflation poisons the growth of an economy and robs people of the advances in social welfare and standards of living that would otherwise be achievable. After the economic surgery to stop inflation we can resume growth - but that which is lost during the cure remains lost forever. The Budget emphasises public sector growth and makes threatening references to a need to clamp down on the private sector. The quote from the Treasury I have just used forecasts constraints on the private sector. 
The truth is that we cannot have real advances in the public sector - education, cities, pensions or health - without real advances in the private sector where the wealth is built. It is possible to get an appearance of growth by spending more money but when adjustments are made to allow for the price increases of inflation, it is not an improved real performance. Paying for public services means building resources, not just putting an inflated price tag on the service. The control of inflation starts with good economic management. This involves striking a proper balance between the demands of the public sector, which distributes social welfare, against the health of the private sector, which creates the means of financing public spending. Good economic management requires the right assessment of the level of total demand so that the economy can satisfy both the public and the private sector without overstraining resources. If total demand breaks through the resource barrier there will be competition for scarce resources. A government can outbid the private sector by inflationary pressure which is clearly intended by this Budget. The alternative is to squeeze the private sector by financial or fiscal measures, of which there are plenty of threats and hints in this Budget and in speeches by Ministers. Either is most harmful to the economic health of the nation. 
The inflationary impact of the Budget can be gauged by two points made by the Treasury in Statement No. 2 appended to the Treasurer's speech, namely: Firstly, The percentage increase in government spending on domestic outlays - that is $ 1,938m; and secondly any offsetting rise in government revenue collections due to changes in tax rates - that is $339m. It is accepted by the Treasury that the major influence on the economy is the changes made in the Budget expenditures and receipts. I refer to Treasury Statement No. 2, page 7. The crucial point made by the Treasury - unknown to the Treasurer - is that the impact of the Budget on the revenue side cannot be assessed by looking only at the growth of tax receipts when that growth is due to the effects of inflation and a progressive tax scale. This is made clear in Statement No. 2, page 10, which reads: 
However, only changes in revenue arising from changes in rates and charges can be considered as capable of varying or offsetting economic trends which, prior to the Budget, are foreseen. 
In contrast, the existing tax structure is part of the complex of factors producing presently foreseen trends and therefore cannot be seen as capable of offsetting them - the effect of the existing tax structure is already 'built in', as it were, to those foreseen trends. 
This analysis has been presented in each of the recent Budget statements. It rips away the Treasurer's pretence that by accumulating extra taxes through inflation and thus reducing the size of his deficit he is in some *ay presenting a neutral Budget. The absurdity of his proposition is easily demonstrated. If the inflation rate of 1973-74 reaches 13 per cent instead of the 10 per cent or 10 per cent on which his estimates have been drawn up, he will accumulate a Budget surplus because of the progressive tax scale. To be consistent he will point to the surplus and say that he is winning the fight against inflation, having led it from 10 per cent to 13 per cent. This is simply Alice in Wonderland economics. On the Treasury's own approach the Budget is therefore inflationary and expansionary - not neutral. It is necessary to decide how expansionary. 
We should look at the impact of the present Budget in perspective. On the expenditure side the increase in domestic outlay has gone up by Sl,938m - a rise of 20 per cent against 16 per cent last year. On the revenue side there is an increase of revenue of only $339m as a result of new tax proposals. That can be seen in Statement No. 5, page 85. The net stimulation - that is the Budget impact - offered to the economy in the present Budget is therefore SI, 599m. In his book 'Fiscal Policy In Australia' Professor J. Nevile measures the net stimulation of Budgets by calculating Budget impact in this way and relating the result in percentage terms to the gross nonfarm product. He states:; 'we can define any increase greater than 2.9 per cent as unusually expansionary . . .'. On this measure the present Budget represents an increase of 4.2 per cent, one of the largest stimulants ever. It is certainly the greatest expansion ever to an overheated economy. It can be compared with 1961-62 when the figure was 4.5 per cent while unemployment was at 3.2 per cent, or the 4.2 per cent can be compared with 4.6 per cent in 1972-73 when unemployment was at 2.2 per cent. I seek the leave of the House to incorporate in Hansard documents which set this out. 
We can expect a report from him in the year 2000. Demand management is an essential feature of overall economic management. The Organisation for 
Economic Co-operation and Development reports expert opinion that correct demand management represents 60 per cent or more of a proper approach for dealing with the problem of inflation. This is a conclusion reached notwithstanding the more recent phenomenon of cost-push inflation. The OECD emphasises, however, the importance of an incomes-prices policy as a necessary addition in circumstances such as we now face in Australia. 
The first step in the achievement of an incomes-prices approach is an understanding by the public of the immense social and economic harm which excessive inflation produces. It goes beyond prices - staggering though they are - to the basic health of the economy. The magnitude of the inflationary problem present and projected has dramatically increased. From a long run average rate of price increase below 3 per cent to 6 per cent last year, it is now projected to be more that 10 per cent this year. Naturally we criticise the present Government for its part in bringing this about. But we wish to go beyond recrimination. This is a national problem and we wish to offer an initiative towards a national solution. We will play our part in achieving this solution. 
There should be a national conference of Federal and State governments, the unions and employer organisations. The purpose would be, firstly, to identify the harms and evils of inflation, and secondly, to set an agreed program for restraint of incomes and prices. Incomes would need to include wages, profits, dividends and interest. Prices would need to include commodities and services across the full spectrum of commercial and private purchases. The impact which cost increases have upon price rises should be charted to achieve a clear understanding that any attempt to harness- prices alone while ignoring incomes would be futile. Out of the national conference should come a commitment by the whole of the community to restrain the rapid growth of incomes and prices. With the consumer price index at an annual rate of price increase of about 13 per cent and with the prospect of an increasing rate of underlying inflation involved in an expected average wage increase of 13 per cent, I believe a temporary total freeze on all incomes and prices will be necessary. This freeze should not exceed 90 days. Circumstances of the time could require an extension for a further short period. This action would break the circuit of inflation expectation which forces prices and wage settlements to be higher than they need be. 
It is sometimes objected that a freeze would only suppress inflation, only postpone its occurrence. This objection confuses demand-pull inflation and cost inflation. Under conditions of excess demand prices and incomes are pulled up. Freezing them still leaves the excess demand and this excess demand tends merely to build up. However, under conditions of cost inflation, prices are rising not ; because of excess demand but because they' are being pushed up by rising costs generated, for example, by excessive wage settlements. Accordingly, if wages and prices are frozen, and if the Government has done its job in removing excess demand, the cause of the inflation and not simply its symptoms ought to be removed. 
During this first phase the national conference would consider the adoption of guidelines for moderated price and wage advance in the future. The guidelines adopted towage increases could be at about 6 per cent year. This is about the level when we had long period of price increase averaging  2i  pei cent to 3 per cent per year. I suggest 6 per cent as being made up of about 3 per cent productivity increase and about  2i  per cent to  i  per cent inflation tolerance. This is only a guideline which needs to be explored further to take account of other varying pressures which have  an effect on cost increases, for instance, the cost of imported goods or higher export prices forcing up domestic prices. 
Throughout' the period of the guidelines application it would be desirable to have a prices notification system in operation. Companies with a turnover in excess of a determined figure would be required to notify price increases, lt would then stand on the public record and would be taken into account in determining future guidelines for wages and prices. The sanction would not be for increasing prices but for the failure to notify the price increase. In this way positive attention would be directed to the cause of price increases. It would build public involvement in a national problem to which we must all contribute on an informed basis. As a necessary corollary it would be a requirement to notify wage settlements. 
I do not believe that an incomes-prices policy should be a permanent feature of economic management in Australia. Also I emphasise that : I do not believe price control alone can control inflation - indeed price control as such can only be used in extreme and special circumstances. To complement these restraining measures it is necessary to take other positive measures, for example to achieve greater productivity. Productivity is a force against inflation. A fundamental contribution is a balanced work force. There should be no greater percentage addition to public workforce numbers than the expected addition to the workforce overall. For present purposes this could be regarded as 3 per cent per annum. This figure should be adopted in the Australian Public Service, as it was in 1972, forthwith, not the 5 per cent forecast by the Prime Minister. I refer honourable members to page 53 of the Coombs report. Wage rates within the public sector as a whole and in the pace-setting Commonwealth Public Service would need to be held at the same guidelines level as for the workforce as a whole. 
All this could be achieved by the voluntary commitment arising out of the national conference being translated by executive action of the governments and by appropriate Commonwealth and State legislation. If it cannot be achieved by this means then the States should be called upon for the temporary reference of such power as would be needed to apply the freeze on prices and incomes. During this short period a meeting of Commonwealth and States would be necessary to evolve appropriate co-operative legislation for the guideline period. All Liberal parliamentary leaders in the States will co-operate in fighting inflation through the type of action I am proposing. But they will not cede powers to the Commonwealth merely in order to satisfy socialist centralism. Throughout this process there should be proper demand management so that the total demand does not exceed the capacity of current resources, including imports, to supply. 
The Treasurer in his first television program after the Budget, and about 4 days later, asked which area of proposed public sector increased expenditure should be cut back. It is not for me to allocate priorities for the Government between one social welfare expenditure against another. In general terms 1 welcome all of them and it is not reasonable for me to make distinctions at the end of the process when I had no part in the vital beginning - that is, of determining the shape of the Budget and other commitments made before it. Clearly much of the administrative expenditures can be cut. Already the boosting of ministerial and departmental empires is drawing public resentment. 1 repeat that the right course in the present circumstances is to limit the total of public sector expenditures to a level which can be satisfied by the available resources in the economy. This level can be judged by the amount of expected revenue receipts which are real and not blown up by an increased tax take from inflationary pressures operating on a progressive tax scale, lt is not possible to state the percentage reduction which would be necessary in public expenditure because that will be changing as inflation swings the balance of the economy. 
This is a Budget which paid no attention at any time to this fundamental concept of supply and demand matching. To attempt to prune a Budget which is wrong in concept would only heap error upon error. The Budget should have been the instrument for the achievement of economic and social policies which are real instead of recklessly ambitious. An opposition cannot try to make bricks out of the Government's straw. The Budget is the Government's major economic instrument. It is absurd for the Treasurer to say: 
I think the public wants to do something about inflation but there is not a lot we can do about it in the Budget. 
That statement is sheer arrant nonsense. 1 prefer the following statement in that bright little publication published last year - 'Prices. It's Time'. 
The Australian Labor Party sees inflation control as the Government's responsibility. Not yours. 
In the pamphlet I have in my hand - this is what the Labor Party sought to get into government on and what it deceived the people with - appears a lovely little statement related to a price rise of steel as follows: 
All this would be bad enough, except the Government compounds the problem by increasing postal charges, telephone rates, and television licences and by increasing indirect taxes . . . petrol and cigarettes, for example. 
The members of the Cabinet and rural Labor members of Parliament have abandoned their electors. The Minister for Northern Development, the honourable member for Dawson, has abandoned his responsibility to his electorate and the Minister for Immigration, the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby),  has abandoned his responsibility to his electorate. (Government supporters interjecting) 
Please do not try to' reason with .the Minister for Immigration,  Mr Speaker;  he is immune to it. Another honourable member who has abandoned his responsibilities is the honourable member for Eden Monaro  (Mr Whan).  Where is the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Olley)?  He has abandoned his responsibilities with a shy, self effacing grin. 
The Minister for External Territories can only see an airfield. He cannot see his responsibilities in the Territory of Papua New Guinea. He goes against the wishes of the people up there. He should not speak. Listing the measures that have adversely affected the rural industry draws a clear picture: The phasing out of the butter and cheese bounty, the phasing out of the processed milk products bounty, the abolition of free milk to all schools, the imposition of meat export charges, the recovery of full costs in eradicating bovine brucellosis and tuberculosis, the abolition of the accelerated depreciation of plant used in primary production, the phasing out of the tax provisions for wine makers trading stock, the phasing out of air service support, the increase of postal rates on newspapers and periodicals, the increasing telecommunications charges to the media, and telephone rentals in country areas, and the abolition of support for petroleum product costs in country areas. lt has been estimated that the increased duty on motor spirits coupled with the widening of the petrol price equalisation margin will increase rural transport costs for farm produce by up to 27 per cent. The consequential increase of food prices is inevitable to all purchasers whether city or rural dwellers. A number of eliminated provisions were designed to reduce costs and prices in rural towns to city levels. They were based on equity and regional development. Labor has reneged on the principle stated by the Prime Minister in January of this year. He said: 
It is not fair that people should have to spend so much more for the particular commodity you mention or for other basic commodities outside the State capitals. 
Whether fair or not they will now pay more. 
The Labor Government's neglect of the rural industries is demonstrated by the fact that while public sector spending is growing overall by more than 20 per cent, the estimated expenditure in special appropriations for the Department of Primary Industry has been cut almost 40 per cent. The Opposition primary industry spokesman, the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street),  has already described Budget day as a black Tuesday for the country man. 
asked the Minister for the Environment and Conservation, upon notice. 
Can he say what Acts have been enacted  by  (a) each State and (b) the Commonwealth to control (i) air pollution, (ii) water pollution, (iii) wastes disposal and (iv) noxious odours; if so, what are the major provisions of these Acts. 
Can he also say which municipalities in Australia have local government ordinances controlling (a) air pollution, (b) water pollution, (c) wastes disposal and (d) noxious odours; if so, what are th&lt; restrictions imposed by these ordinances. 
I address a question without notice to the Treasurer. Last night I stated a specific proposal for inflation control in Australia which included a national incomes-prices policy. On 10 April1973 the Prime Minister said 'there is good reason  to  believe 'a prices and incomes policy can be effective' in the short-term as one means of fighting inflation. On 5 May 1973 he further conceded that he considered restraints on prices and 'the orderly determination of personal incomes' as ingredients required to control inflation. Because of the failure of the Government's ad hoc and ineffective price policies will the Minister now indicate what action is to be taken to implement a national policy to control inflation? 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
How many strip mining operations are operating in Australia. 
What is the (a) nature and (b) location of each of these ventures. 
What was the (a) quantity and (b) nature of the mineral strip mined by each venture during each of the last 5 years. 
What was the acreage of land mined in each of the same years. 
What area of land in each mining venture has been reclaimed, and what were the methods by which this was achieved. 
My question is addressed to the Treasurer in the Whitlam-Barnard Government. There has been a continuing decline in share prices since the Government came to power and yesterday was one of the blackest days in stock market history, with shares falling alarmingly. The reason given by experts for this fall was the lack of confidence in the Government and in Australia. What action will the Treasurer take to restore confidence in Australia - he cannot restore confidence in the Government - by both Australians and people overseas so that the value of assets of small investors, of whom there are hundreds of thousands in Australia, can be restored to the levels of before? Does the Treasurer agree that investment in equity shares is a reasonable and proper way in which the small investor can make provision for his future? 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. Did the Treasurer on Sunday, 31 January 1971, use these words: 
Interest rates raised by  Mr Gorton  and  Mr Bury  to the highest level in our history- 
They were then at 7 per cent - have acted adversely on important groups in the community, particularly young wage earners seeking to buy a home. 
Does the Treasurer agree that the interest rate increases, wherever they may finish, will lift the cost of living to families by $5 to $10 a week by increased mortgage repayments, increased hire purchase repayments and increased prices because of the increased cost of borrowing money incurred by the manufacturers of goods or the builders of homes? Does this not mean that the decision is making inflation worse instead of attacking inflation? 
My question is addressed to the Treasurer. Yesterday he said that the Reserve Bank would intervene in the next few days to help the market establish a new interest rate for Commonwealth bonds. He also said that the Reserve Bank had a figure in its mind, whatever that means. That was the way that he put it. I now ask the honourable gentleman whether he will say what figure the Reserve Bank has in mind. Does he accept that the success of the July loan, when I think $239m was subscribed, depended upon the confidence of the subscribers that the interest rate would remain at 7 per cent? Does he accept that no Commonwealth borrowing can succeed until there is certainty in the minds of investors about the long term bond rate? Does he accept that until there is certainty, the proposal of the Prime Minister that they would soak up excess liquidity cannot be achieved? 
I have seen a copy of the statement which has accompanied the tabling of this report but I have not seen a copy of the Public Service Board report itself. Therefore I do not know what is meant by the phrase in the statement 'describes many of the changes which have occurred in the machinery of government'. There have been many changes indeed. One matter which is of more concern to the Australian public than any other is the growth in the Commonwealth Public Service. The Budget has estimated that the Public Service will grow by 4.7 per cent this year. Nobody believes for one moment that the growth rate will be held to 4.7 per cent. Everybody believes that the growth rate will be at least 7 per cent and that more than likely it will be 10 per cent. Even if the growth rate were restricted to 7 per cent it would mean that the cost of running the Public Service would increase to an extraordinarily high level. The Budget, on the basis of a 4.7 per cent growth rate, provides for an increase of 24.2 per cent in salaries and allowances. But that, of course, will not be the actual level of the increase. The level of the increase will be at least 7 per cent. 
One should compare the growth rate in the Public Service of 7 per cent with the growth rate in the work force of only 3 per cent to  3i  per cent. A 4.7 per cent growth in the Commonwealth Public Service will cost an extra $137.6m a year in salaries. If the growth rate is 7 per cent, as is expected, the salary cost will be an extra $204m a year. That $204m a year would provide every pensioner in Australia with an extra $3 a week in his or her pension. That is an example of the way in which the Public Service is growing. This growth is totally disorienting the proper relativities between the private sector and the public sector and, within the public sector, the proper relationship between social service activities and the unrestrained growth of the Commonwealth Public Service. It is quite inappropriate for the Commonwealth Public Service to grow in this fashion. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has made it clear that he wants the Commonwealth Public Service to be the pacesetter for the whole of Australian industry. It certainly has been used by the Government up to date as the pacesetter. He is quite determined to abandon productivity as a concept. He is quite determined to have the Commonwealth Public Service lead the field in wage rates and conditions in Australia to a level where its inflationary impact will just build upon the present inflationary situation. There is no will on the part of the Government to tackle inflation. Any measure it has taken will not achieve the desired result. 
Let us examine some of the extraordinary things which are being done. The Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson)  was elected by the Caucus to be a Minister. He had to be found a job to do. So he was appointed Minister for Northern Development. It was only natural that people would expect the Minister for Northern Development to have something to do with beef roads, but that responsibility was taken away from him. It was only natural that people would expect him to have something to do with primary industry in the northern areas, but that responsibility was taken away from him. 
He has a very important job. He said in this House the other night that the single most important international agreement in existence is the International Sugar Agreement. It is not surprising that he should have thought that it was the single most important agreement in existence because it is his only responsibility. 
I have been reminded by the honourable member for Wannon that it was a Liberal-Country Party government which negotiated that Agreement. Some other extraordinary changes are to occur. The Minister for Transport and Minister for Civil Aviation  (Mr Charles Jones)  this morning, by the way he chose to avoid answering any questions, was anxious to use question time to avoid having any debate. He misused question time in the same way as the Government is misusing the Commonwealth Public Service. 
It is said that the Government is to amalgamate the Departments of Transport and Civil Aviation. What relationship is there between rail, sea and land transport and civil aviation? Quite clearly, the departments are not appropriate to be amalgamated. They certainly are not appropriate to be amalgamated under the present Minister. That Minister has no chance of running those 2 departments properly and effectively. We already know that the Director-General of Civil Aviation, who prides Australia on the safety that we have achieved in civil aviation and who has been appointed to the board of Qantas Airways Ltd, is laying siege to his own office. He is not prepared to play any part which would bring about an amalgamation of the departments and a reduction in the safety of civil aviation in Australia. That is a proper attitude for him to have. I am sure that everybody in this House would see the importance of civil aviation and the safety of all those who travel by air as being greater than merely the opportunity for the Prime Minister to give a bigger responsibility to a devoted Minister who always says yes to him. The Prime Minister knows that the Minister will not be exercising that responsibility; it will be an aggrandised public service that will do that. 
The Minister for External Territories  (Mr Morrison)  will find himself without a job. That Department is about to be abolished. Just what new department will be dreamed up for the Minister for External Territories so that he can continue to be a Minister is beyond anybody's guess at this time The Minister for Northern Development received that portfolio and has sugar alone as his sole responsibility. What portfolio will the present Minister for External Territories get? It is said that the Prime Minister is making such an awful mess of his foreign affairs portfolio that he is to hand it over to the Minister for External Territories. 
That is what is said. Sources close to the Government - everybody knows how important they are - have suggested that the Minister for External Territories would make a much better Minister for Foreign Affairs than the Prime Minister. 
That is the point. Let us identify the problem. The present Minister for External Territories would be better than the Prime Minister, but he would still be an awful Minister for Foreign Affairs. However, he has a distinguished background in foreign affairs and perhaps that is what he will do. If that is done, I think that the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart)  is to have his Department broken into two, so that he can be just the Minister for Recreation and the present Minister for External Territories, no doubt, can be the Minister for Tourism. 
I do not know what is to happen to the Department of Customs and Excise. The Minister for Customs and Excise is  Senator Murphy  who, 2 weeks ago in the Senate, delivered the most devastating criticism of a leader that has ever been made.  Senator Murphy  said that the Prime Minister - the Leader of his own Party - had acted with a total lack of concern for Cabinet unity. The Prime Minister accepted that rebuff and did not have the courage either to explain the matter or to discipline  Senator Murphy.  This is the way the Government has deteriorated. Any Minister can say whatever he likes because the Prime Minister is not game to discipline him. What is to happen to the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  when he returns home? Will he be criticised for saying that the Government acted wrongly in failing to consult him over the economic measures of last Sunday? 
Perhaps the biggest joke of all is the amalgamation of the Departments of the Army, the Navy and Air with the Department of Defence. The idea of the Deputy Prime Minister being responsible for 4 departments is just the cause of the greatest amusement that could possibly happen. 
Oh no. This has changed. The statement mentions the incorporation of the functions of the Department of Customs and Excise and the Department of Supply in other areas of the Australian Public Service. Under the amalgamation the  Deputy  Prime Minister will be responsible for the Army, Navy, Air and Defence Departments. So the  Deputy  Prime Minister has had Supply taken off him. He will have Army, Navy and Air but there will be precious little of the Army, Navy and Air left. Have you ever seen such a deliberate breaking of a policy promise made by a party seeking office? The Labor Party said that it would hold spending on defence at 3.5 per cent of the gross national product. Then the poor little embattled  Deputy  Prime Minister came up with that worried look over his face and said: 'I confess we have cut down spending on defence from 3.5 per cent in real terms to 2.6 per cent in real terms'. Yet the Government has the cheek to go around and say: 'We are going to defend Australia; we are going to play our part in regional defence arrangements; and furthermore we are going to walk the stage of the world and be a powerful middle power.' 
The poor Deputy Prime Minister would not know what to sign unless his Private Secretary told him. Notwithstanding this the Deputy Prime Minister will now be responsible for Army, Navy, Air and Defence. I heard an interjection from this side of the House to the effect that the Brownies and the Girl Guides would be included in the incorporation. I do not like the implication; I reject it. I acknowledge that the Brownies and the Girl Guides are doing a tremendous job in building up morale among young women in this community and I would not like to see the direction of their policy in the hands of the Deputy Prime Minister because he has already lost more soldiers, sailors and airmen as well as equipment in this short time than it would have been possible to imagine  1  months ago. During the last 6 months we have seen the depletion of our national defence forces. We then come to the extraordinary statement of the Prime Minister that there were some difficulties between the Government and the Public Service. 
The Prime Minister says that there were some difficulties between the Government and the Public Service and that all these difficulties could be attributed to some lack of understanding. He said that he believes that these difficulties could have been avoided. But what he really means is that the Public Service wanted to give direct, objective advice and the Government was not prepared to accept it because this was not the advice that it wanted to hear. But now the understanding is established. If the Public Service does what it is told and if it offers the advice that is wanted by the Government then the understanding will pursue. We do not agree that this is the way for a government to govern a country. It is very important that members of the Commonwealth Public Service serve Ministers fearlessly and are not subjected to being shunted off as special ambassadors to the International Labour Organisation or some other body in Europe as has happened to 2 men who were both first class public servants. This action was a deliberate act of retribution by the Government to get rid of these men. No doubt there are more to come. This is a form of action that we would never engage in. And then, as for the convention- 
Yes, I will pick up the point very strongly. That is not what  Sir John  Bunting would say. We have Woof Woof and the 26 dynamos playing the game.  Sir John  Bunting is a public servant who is now virtually like  Mr Marshall  who is attached to the person of  Senator Murphy.  The Prime Minister has decided to attach to his personal charge one of the greatest public servants ever to serve this country so that instead of allowing  Sir John  Bunting to develop policies and to put them fearlessly to the Government,  Sir John  is obliged to take the directions of the Prime Minister and is unable to give the objective advice that he should give. 

 Sir John Bunting served the previous Government as the permanent head of 2 successive departments over very many years. 1 wonder what is to be his future under the present Prime Minister. There is no doubt in my mind that  Sir John  Bunting would like to be able to return to the days when he could offer objective and fearless advice. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Did he state on 6 April 1973 that, in the administration of the Companies (Foreign Take-overs) Act, the preliminary examination of 17 take-over proposals was completed in the period 9-31 March 1973 and, of these, 14 proposals were permitted to go ahead because they included a number of proposals which were found on examination not to lead to loss of Australian control, or to be related to take-overs of companies with assets of less than $lm which did not raise any important national interest considerations. 
If so, will he list the 14 proposals which were cleared between 9 and 31 March 1973. 
What were the criteria, in detail, on which clearance to proceed with the proposal was based in each case. 
What were the criteria on which the decision was made to approve the Babcock Australia Holdings Ltd and the Security Mills Pty Ltd proposals. 
What were the criteria on which the C. T. Bowring International (Aust.) Pty Ltd proposal was decided to be contrary to the national interest. 
Does the Prime Minister accept that when the interest rate on Commonwealth bonds rises by 1 per cent the loss in the capital value of the bonds held is 10 per centum? Does he therefore accept that  those persons who collectively contributed S239m to the July Commonwealth loan -  Mr Speaker,  the question is addressed to the Prime Minister, not the Treasurer - have lost almost $40m of their capital asset in 2 months? Does he accept that literally hundreds of millions of dollars have been lost in the capital value of Commonwealth bonds held by superannuation funds and insurance companies which provide bonuses for policy holders? Does he accept these things and does he therefore agree that a tremendous burden is falling upon the ordinary man and woman in this community as a result of the Government's policy announced last Sunday? 
I ask the Prime Minister whether he is committed to using selective interest rates particularly in areas such as housing. What does he expect to be the interest rate on a mortgage with the bond rate at 8.6 per cent? What is the extra cost in weekly payments for a mortgage of $12,500 with the increased interest rate which would flow from an 8.6 per cent bond rate? 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. Assuming that the law is observed in the fixing of interest rates as the Prime Minister indicated, will the Prime Minister say how he expects savings banks and building societies to be able to attract funds from lenders if the interest rates they can pay on deposits are to remain the same or little changed compared with a bond rate rising from 7 per cent to 9 per cent or beyond? If these institutions cannot attract deposits from lenders how will they have funds available to make loans to home builders and buyers? 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. If savings bank depositors accept a lower interest rate, as the Prime Minister has just said they should, does this not mean that each of those depositors in savings banks will subsidise the cheaper mortgage interest rate on which the savings banks will be able to lend money for mortgages? If this is the fact does it not contradict what the Treasurer was just pointing out to the House, that when you give one group an advantage you are likely to place a burden on another group? Therefore, will the Prime Minister reconcile as to who is to receive the benefit and who is to receive the burden? Does he not now accept that the announcement made about interest rates last Sunday night was a wrong decision? 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
What was the total dollar value of the quotas provided by Australia for lesser developed countries in 1972-73 under the scheme of tariff preferences initiated in 1966. 
To what extent were these quotas taken up by lesser developed countries in that year. 
What were the quotas allowed and the amounts utilised by lesser developed countries in each year since the inception of the scheme of preferences. 
Br J. F. Cairns - The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
$A48,168,500 
$A25,767,659 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. Did he receive any undertakings or guarantees from the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions that the trade union movement would moderate its claims for wage increases? If he did receive such an undertaking or guarantee will he state in precise terms the nature of it? 
If it was in writing will he table it? If it was not in writing will he obtain it in writing and then table it? 
I ask the Prime Minister: Is it not a fact that in calendar year 1972 the consumer price index advanced by 4i per cent? Is it not also a fact that in the first half of calendar year 1973 the consumer price index advanced by 5i per cent? Is it a fact that the Prime Minister's Treasurer has said that he expects the consumer price index rise for the September quarter to be higher even than that of the June quarter? In these circumstances will the Prime Minister answer the question of the honourable member for Corio: Does the Prime Minister believe that a prices policy alone is sufficient to attack inflation? 
I address a question to the Prime Minister who in answer to an earlier question by me about the undertaking or guarantee from the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions said that it occurred during a conversation last Wednesday night and that it was part of many items raised in the conversation. I ask the honourable gentleman whether there was any discussion about who would judge whether or not prices control had been successful in controlling inflation? Was there any discussion of the way in which the ACTU  President  would ensure by sanctions applied through the trade union movement that there would be restraints on wages? 
Will the Prime Minister give an unqualified and unchangeable guarantee that he would have an incomes policy as a companion to any prices policy and that the incomes policy would be enforced with the same sanctions as the prices policy and would cover as broad a range of incomes as the prices policy would cover a range of commodities and services? Will he give an unqualified undertaking that there would be an acceptance by the Commonwealth of any powers for a strictly limited period agreed with the Premiers? 
 The Opposition opposes this Bill and it will oppose the referendum proposal. During 1972 the inflation rate in Australia began to fall after the high 1971 December quarter figure of 2.3 per cent. For the 4 quarters of 1972 it was respectively 1 per cent, 0.9 per cent, 1.4 per cent and 1.2 per cent. The total for the year was 4.5 per cent. The other day I heard the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  and the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  say in this House that it was wrong to take any particular quarter and multiply by 4 to get an annual rate. I say to them: Multiply any one of the quarters of 1972 by 4 and you will still get a lesser figure than they get for this year. In the first 6 months of this year the rate is already 5i per cent. Australia was one of the few countries in the world where the trend was downwards in 1972. 
Then came the deluge - the socialist Government. In the first quarter of 1973 the consumer price index was 2.1 per cent. In the June quarter it was 3.3 per cent. Already for the first 6 months of the year the total is 5.4 per cent. The acceleration has been blatantly obvious. The Treasurer has said that he expects the September quarter figure to be at least as high as and possibly higher than the June quarter figure. There is a threat of worse to come. In the third week of October we will know the bad news. In October the Commonwealth Statistician will release his figures for the September quarter. The Treasurer has said that he expects it to be worse than the figure of 3.3 per cent for the June quarter. 
Clearly, the inflation rate has jumped alarmingly. It now represents a critical problem which should be tackled directly and quickly. The Prime Minister has himself acknowledged this in a statement made only 9 days ago. He said: 
Inflation must be fought on all fronts. 
Who will disagree with that? He said: 
There is no panacea; 
Who will disagree with that? He continued: 
No simple solution achievable through one line of policy. 
Of course that was said before he had any intention of holding a prices referendum. He went on: 
But the fact that there is no simple solution to inflation does not mean that we can just throw up our hands in the face of H. On the contrary, we have to tackle it head on. 
His method of tackling it head on last Sunday week was to increase the interest rates on Commonwealth bonds to a level still not known but already  21  per cent higher than the rate in December when the present Government came into office. It really was not head on but head down. Caucus gave him a sharp uppercut. He was rolled - abysmally, ignominiously rolled by his own Caucus. He then unfolded proposals for a bevy of constitutional amendments. He argued against a prices referendum. Again he took the count. Caucus directed him to take this action - to bring this Bill for the referendum into the Parliament. He is an unwilling' advocate, which explains why he is so unconvincing. He has bees rolled more times than a piece of dough in a cooking class. Even last night, talking to the electrical manufacturers he said: 
For myself, I frankly confess that I have always had reservations about the value of price control powers - reservations I have publicly acknowledged and explained. 
Yet he comes into this Parliament with the pretence that a prices control referendum will cure all. His words do not add up to his actions. Inflation is a pernicious social and economic wrecker. The people most harmed by inflation are the young and the old; those on fixed incomes; those who have saved; those who have only weak industrial power. Against this massive problem the Prime Minister wants the power to control prices. Yet he says 'Controls over prices are not a cure-all for inflation.' Hallelujah. How true that is. This is the most uncharacteristic understatement he has ever made. 
The Prime Minister said that his Labor Government inherited stagflation but he claims that it has now produced 'this strong and basically healthy economic situation*. He is a man who can one day say that it is a basically healthy economic situation and the next day say that inflation is a serious problem which must be tackled by everybody. Let the Prime Minister claim a credit for the changed economic situation if he will. We will give him the credit if he wants it, if he claims it. But in doing so he must also accept the blame for the present critical state of inflation which he himself acknowledges. Gone are the days when every Labor spokesman insisted that to control prices would solve the inflation problem. Is there anybody in this House who has not heard the Labor Party say: 'Control prices and it is all finished'? Now the Prime Minister says that prices control is no panacea. 'Panacea' happens to be a direct translation from the Latin, meaning cure-all. He felt it necessary for us poor plebs to explain what panacea means. 
He speaks favourably, even longingly, of the United States freeze which was on prices and incomes. He speaks longingly, with his red face, for the US solution on prices and incomes. Is he game to say to the trade union movement that he wants a freeze on incomes and prices? Is he game to do it? He has been invited to do it time and time again and he refuses. He does not have the courage. Since coming to office the Labor Party has postured about tackling inflation but has done nothing effective. Firstly the Prices Justification Tribunal, a new bureaucracy, was created in the days when the Prime Minister still argued that a prices policy was all that was needed - he has abandoned that line recently. He believed then that limits could be put on prices while allowing labour costs to escalate without any attempt to contain them. In some magical way, he believed, prices drop. They had not. 
Then we had the trumpeting of the Parliamentary Joint Committee on Prices. It has not influenced a single price. If it ever does try to do so, the application of Government pressure or granting of privilege by tariff discrimination, as is proposed by the Government, would be improper, as we all know. We had some minor reduction in the money supply and a whisper to the banks to be less generous in their lending. This, too, has had little effect. With political pressure building up on inflation after the June quarter consumer price index of 3.3 per cent, which is an annual rate of 13.2 per cent, suddenly, without the knowledge of the Government's economic advisers - the Reserve Bank and the Treasury which, in fact, were excluded from any consideration in the taking of advice - and with no proper consideration of its effect on industries, there was an across the board tariff cut of 25 per cent. The impact of that decision on prices was very marginal. It pretended to be a major assault on inflation. It scarcely touched the problem. The Government, while attempting to give an impression of concern, was fiddling about on the edges of the problem. 
Then came the Budget. Responsible Australians hoped that the Budget would be used as part of an anti-inflationary attack on prices.  Mr Crean,  the Treasurer, said in his Budget Speech: 
With resources under strain we would be foolish to overload them further. 
That was a correct statement. Then, the Budget proceeded to do the very opposite. He significantly overtaxed resources by increasing Government spending by nearly 20 per cent. Then we had the incredible fiasco of the interest rate measures. The Reserve Bank, before the Budget, had said in its annual report: 
There is scope for further tightening in financial conditions but the gathering strength of private demand suggests it would not be prudent and probably not sufficient to rely only on monetary policy to achieve the desired restraint. 
The Government acted totally against that advice and threw an unreasonable burden onto monetary policy. This means that we are threatened with a disastrous and unnecessary credit squeeze. The Government has even bungled this proposal. It is confusing not only to the investing community, the business community and private citizens who are borrowing or lending, especially for home mortgages, but also to the Government and to the Reserve Bank themselves. Nobody knows what is going on. Certainly the Prime Minister and the Treasurer do not. The Prime Minister disclosed what everybody knew - a total incapacity to understand the most elementary economic principle - in the questions that he did not answer in this Parliament. Then we had the Treasurer hectoring us with this nodding way of his like a school master, or like a woodpecker as a colleague comments. All they want to do it to avoid strife with the unions. The Caucus wants to avoid strife with home owners. 
The prices referendum is the last of the great non-measures. The Prime Minister tells us: 
We share at present with every comparable country a problem of price inflation. 
It is true that other countries have higher inflation than they have experienced in the past, lt is equally true that there was high inflation in 1971 and 1972 throughout the world and that Australia's record during those 2 years was outstandingly good compared with that of other countries. There is no reason why it should not be so in 1973 as it was during those years. From being in the position where we were envied by other countries because of our low rate of inflation, we are now pitied by other countries because of our high rate of inflation. 
The period that inflation lasts in Australia will depend on the time for which the Government continues to refuse to take comprehensive measures to control it. The Prime Minister admits that controls over prices are not a cure-all for inflation, yet by this proposal he puts overwhelming importance on this part of the treatment. He is correct when he acknowledges the limitations of a price control. He steadfastly refuses to take responsible economic action for proper demand management which is assessed by the leading economists of the world as essential. He refuses to acknowledge that if wages exceed productivity there will be cost inflation. An incomes-prices policy is a supplement to demand management, but a very important supplement. It is a circuit-breaker on inflationary psychologyIt interrupts wage and price increases which are higher than they need be. In a period of high inflation they anticipate cost or price increases which may occur before the next wage or price rise. Prices are a measurement of inflation. It is certainly where people feel the pinch, but there is not a school boy in Australia who does not understand that prices go up because costs force them up. Excess wage increases are not the single cause of inflation and I have never alleged that. But they certainly are the major cause, as I have consistently said. 
I have argued for an incomes-prices policy which is based on a 90-day freeze of both, followed by a guideline period of moderated wage and price increase. I have suggested 6 per cent for wages which I expect would result in 3 per cent price increase similar to the rises of the 1960s. It has been on these terms - that is, as a circuit-breaker - that I have argued it. I have consistently and positively said that price control cannot be a permanent feature of economic management. Nobody would expect it to be able to continue forever as an economic regulator which excused governments from economic responsibility. There must be a unanimous opinion on this point because even the Prime Minister admits that price control has limited value in limited conditions. The Prime Minister said that I argue now for an incomes-prices policy, but that I opposed it when I was Treasurer. Any other man would recognise in these words a misrepresentation - but we are accustomed to misrepresentation from the Prime Minister which no other man would use. In October 1971 in an address to the Committee for Economic Development of Australia I discussed the whole subject of incomes-prices policies. I concluded with these words:  the stage may be reached where the community would accept the controls entailed in incomesprices policies as a necessary price to pay to restore stability. 
What I then said is the same as I now say. In 1972 inflation was going down; in 1973 it is rising alarmingly. We did not take this drastic step in 1972, but the time has now come when people are wanting action - not a halfbaked prices only scheme, but the full range of policies. 
It is worth making the point, too, that in a departure from his published speech yesterday the Prime Minister said that these underMinister for Labour and National Service I argued for a prices justification scheme. The Prime Minister knows that that is false. What I said was that there should be room for a prices notification scheme and I have since said exactly the same thing in terms of a guideline policy. I said it in this House in my speech on the Budget, but we will continue to have these misrepresentations from the redfaced Prime Minister. 
In speaking last week of the prices referendum the Prime Minister made it clear that he relied upon guarantees and undertakings given by  Mr Hawke  that there would be cooperation of the trade union movement in restraining wages, incomes and prices. 
As Leader of the Labor movement he had this guarantee. Yesterday the Prime Minister said that when I was takings were a passing reference among other subjects. What an extraordinary reliance to place upon a passing reference, in the midst of other subjects, to justify a referendum. Where did the Prime Minister say it? He said it in the electorate of Parramatta, to influence the Parramatta by-election results. 
In fact,  Mr Hawke  who was sitting in this House yesterday when I asked the question, called the Press together in the afternoon. He has revealed the Prime Minister's misrepresentation. There could be no clearer words used by any man than were used by the  President  of the Australian Labor Party and  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions about what were the words put in his mouth by the Prime Minister.  Mr Hawke  said that he cannot guarantee wage restraint from the trade unions any more than the Prime Minister can guarantee the outcome of Caucus consideration. This is no guarantee at all when one considers that only last week the Caucus a number of times took the management of the country out of the Prime Minister's hands. It converted a Cabinet of 27 into a Cabinet of 90. It will not be the first, second, third or fourth time. It will be a continual situation with the Caucus trying to run the country on the basis of political popularity instead of the Government trying to run the country in term of responsibility. 

 Mr Whitlam said to this House that there will be complete co-operation from employees' associations. He said: 'I speak for the whole Labor movement'.  Mr Hawke,  with 2 caps-  President  of the Australian Labor Party and  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions - said raspberries to that statement. The Prime Minister can give no such assurance. It is not true. He is cynically attempting to mislead the House and all Australians. Just as extraordinary was the Prime Minister's statement that wage restraint would not occur until after the Government's efforts to contain inflation within a reasonable limit had failed. First of all you would try to contain inflation within a reasonable limit. When that had failed, according to the Prime Minister, the Labor movement would co-operate. How far into the distant future this would be and how desperate inflation would then be can only be guessed. It is not statesmanship - it is political blather. 
In the Bill there is no discussion whatsoever of the extent of the powers which the Government believes would be given to the Commonwealth by inclusion in section 51 of the simply 6-letter word 'prices'. There is no opinion from the Solicitor-General or other counsel. Clearly it was rushed in without preparation. There was not even a Cabinet submission. The only advice Ministers had was the verbal advice of the Prime Minister and the direction of Caucus. It is no wonder that there is no clarity. The Government does not even know. Does it extend to interest, which is the price of money lent; to services, which is the price of repairing a car or television set; or to wages, which is the price of labour? Does a power over prices mean that the Government can fix a price at a ridiculously low level and thereby effectively prohibit production of selected goods? If it does include a power over wages, will it empower a government to virtually direct the way in which people will conduct their work and what sort of work they will do by controlling how much they can be paid for it? Every employed person in Australia should be told the answer to these questions. But not a word about it is contained in the Prime Minister's speech - not a single word. The Prime Minister comes here to advocate a cause but tells the Parliament not a word about it. 
Also there is no indication whatsoever of the intentions of the Government as to the way in which it will exercise the power if it is given to it. How big will the bureaucracy be? How many inspectors will be needed to police the price restrictions? Will it apply to all goods or only to selected goods, and if so, to which ones? What will be the penalties for failure to comply? Will prices control be a permanent feature of this Government's economic management? Are we to distort the economy forever with a system which fixes prices at a profitable level for the most inefficient and allows others to profit mightily? The Prime Minister yesterday was all in favour of profits. Is that why he is arguing for prices control? This happened the last time we had Commonwealth price control - in 1948 and 1949 under a Labor Government. Inflation under that Labor Government with price control was 10.1 per cent in 1948 and 10 per cent in 1949. That is what prices control does for you. 
The problem of inflation is one of economic management. With a Labor government it will last well into the future. Present day events do not justify the Commonwealth Government asking for a power of massive proportions for all time when it is designed to cure a present problem. There has been no attempt in the Bill to limit its scope or duration. In fact the power would give the Commonwealth an immense capacity to order social and economic events to suit its own ideology and that of the unions. One needs only to look at the platform and policy of the Labor Party and identify certain parts of it which will be able to be developed with this power. Two examples will suffice to show the intention and the capacity to completely socialise Australia which is inherent in this proposed power. Labor's platform states:  . . with the object of achieving Labor's socialist objectives, establish or extend public enterprise, where appropriate by nationalisation, particularly in the fields of banking, consumer finance, insurance, marketing, housing, stevedoring, transport and in areas of anti-social private monopoly. 
Under Labor, the Government will: 
. compete actively with private enterprise in interstate transport by sea, air or road. 
How can a private organisation compete with a government competitor which can draw from the public purse to carry losses while fixing prices to drive others out of business? The Prime Minister said yesterday that nothing in public or private responses of the Premiers of New South Wales or Victoria gives the slightest room for hope that they are prepared to refer such a power to the national Government. I quote  Sir Robert  Askin at the Constitutional Convention:  the Prime Minister has asked the States to give something - to wit, the power to control prices. Subject to the control of prices being linked with an effective and agreed-upon control of incomes policy - and I regard this as indispensable - I am willing to recommend to the New South Wales Government the reference of power over prices provided the Commonwealth does a bit of giving, not just taking all the time, and agrees to the states receiving a much more equitable and guaranteed share of income tax, sufficient with our other sources or Income to make us self-supporting under normal conditions. 
I share the views of  Sir Robert  Askin in the second part. On the following day, I said:  . I believe there would be great value in the appointment of a working party to examine a proposal that a predetermined share of the revenue collected by the Commonwealth should go to the States. I would welcome such a proposal. 
But this is a separate question.  Sir Robert  made it clear that if there were to be an effective and agreed-upon control or incomes policy he would recommend his Government to refer power over prices. I am specifically authorised by him,  Sir Robert  Askin, to say that on the following night at Kirribilli House at a dinner given by the Prime Minister,  Sir Robert  said he would not press the requirements for a greater share of income tax for the States if this was a bar to the achievement of a proper comprehensive policy to tackle inflation. The question of a greater share of revenue he still intends to pursue in other ways. He  still stands by the  rest of the statement. 

 Mr Hamer, said at the Convention: 
. We are prepared to play whatever part is required of us in fighting inflation and taking part in a comprehensive attack against it. 
 If there is an overall pattern which involves real control of some of the causes of inflation, including a wages and incomes policy as well as a prices control policy, we would consider it favourably. We would play our part in resolving one of the worst problems confronting Australians, rising prices. 
There can be no doubt that the Premiers of these 2 States are not only willing but anxious in the national interest to play their part. I have been in contact with  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  Premier of Queensland, who has assured me that if the Commonwealth called a conference of the Commonwealth and State Governments to deal with the problem of inflation Queensland would co-operate in the conference.  Dr Eastick,  the Leader of the Opposition in South Australia - it will be recalled that the Prime Minister said that whatever poor Don said he did not control the Upper Houseauthorises me to say that his party would support in the House any co-operative action agreed to at a conference by  Mr Hamer  and  Sir Robert  Askin. He would prevail on the Upper House to follow this course. He adds that it would be desirable to have the Leaders of the Opposition around the table as well as the Labor Premiers. I have today had conversations with  Mr Ren  De Garis and he confirmed it.  Dr Eastick  adds that it would be desirable to have the leaders of the opposition parties around the table as well as the Labor Premiers. The proper course of action is for the Commonwealth to call a conference with all the Premiers forthwith. The conference should develop a course of co-operative action which would call upon the Commonwealth and the States to use the governmental and legislative powers to tackle the problem of inflation. The government can have action within weeks, not months, on 2 conditions only. To refuse these conditions is totally unreasonable. (Extension of time granted!.) 
The 2 conditions are: Firstly, that an incomes control is established alongside the prices control and guarantee to do so is given in clear terms to exercise an incomes-prices policy; secondly, that the measure is not a device to achieve permanent vast powers to the Commonwealth at the expense of the States, that the co-operative action will be accepted on a temporary basis to control our current serious inflationary problem. 
This morning in question time the Prime Minister said that the Commonwealth would accept a temporary reference of powers for control of prices and incomes from the States. He obstinately and deceptively refused to answer the question of whether or not the Commonwealth would use powers over incomes. What he says is: 'I want prices'. The States say: 'You cannot have prices unless you have the composite of prices and incomes'. The Prime Minister then says: 'Just give me prices and incomes. I will exercise price control and do nothing about incomes'. Nobody will be deceived by this action. It is unreal. It is not an economic solution. It is not an honest solution. This morning after the Prime Minister's answer to the question asked by my colleague the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  I asked him: 
Will the Prime Minister give an unqualified and unchangeable guarantee that he would have an incomes policy as a companion to any prices policy and that the incomes policy would be enforced with the same sanctions as the prices policy and that it would cover as broad a range of incomes as the range of commodities or services covered by the prices policy? 
Will he give an unqualified undertaking that there would be an acceptance by the Commonwealth of any powers for a strictly limited period to be agreed upon with the Premiers? 
He said in an off-handed way that he would accept a temporary reference. But what about the question I asked: Will he give an unqualified undertaking to adopt an incomes policy as a companion to a prices policy? Honourable members can search Hansard from now till doomsday and they will find that, just as he has done so often, he avoided answering that question. We have a fundamental issue before the people of Australia and he will not tell them what his attitudes are. Here in this forum of the Parliament he was asked a simple question permitting a simple answer, and he deliberately refused to answer it. He has not yet had his instructions from  Mr Hawke.  He gave his usual windy, dodging reply, but he can dodge the question no longer. I repeat the question: Will the Prime Minister give an unqualified and unchangeable guarantee that he would have an incomes policy as a companion to any prices policy and that the incomes policy would be enforced with the same sanctions as the prices policy and that it would cover as broad a range of incomes as the range of commodities or services covered by the prices policy? If he would give a simple yes to that question he would have quick direct action and would avoid many pre-emptive rises in prices that he was worried about this morning. This is the only thing standing in the way of co-operative action. The only thing in the way is the Prime Minister himself. It is the only thing preventing a prices - incomes policy from being adopted within weeks and a major assault on being achieved. He needs only to say yes to that question and he agrees entirely with me in what I have been putting for months. Trade union power is preventing inflation control because it refuses to let the Labor Government have an incomes policy. If the Prime Minister frees himself from these shackles, if he gives the guarantees that he will enforce temporary incomes control with prices control - as every other country has done - then the referendum is not necessary and the States, the nation and its people will co-operate. Until the Prime Minister and the Labor Party take this genuine action they cannot be regarded as wanting really to tackle inflation. The Labor Government should be seen as wishing to appear to the public as sincere but be known by the trade unions to be supine. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
What will be the functions of the proposed multi-purpose welfare clinics in Sydney and Melbourne. 
What staffing establishment is proposed for these clinics. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
How many interdepartmental committees are currently in operation. 
What is the composition and function of each, and for what period of time has each of them been active. 
Is the Minister for Minerals and Energy aware that the honourable member for Blaxland last night referred to private correspondence between the Prime Minister and a former Minister which was in his possession? Is he also aware that the honourable member for Blaxland read to the House from a document which he claimed to be the draft of a speech formulated by a former Minister though not delivered in the House? Does the honourable gentlemen further understand that the honourable member for Blaxland said it was not given to him by the Minister? In the circumstances, I ask the honourable gentleman: Does he accept that the likelihood is that there has been a breach of the law by somebody by the fact of the possession of these documents by the honourable member for Blaxland? Does he also understand the Westminster Conventions relating to the documents of former governments? On both counts will the Minister ensure that suitable inquiries are made and that no  repetititon  of this occurs? 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. Is it correct that the Prime Minister stated on 30 January 1973 that he was in favour of making public the membership of interdepartmental committees? Is it also correct that on the same day the Prime Minister assured members of the Press that he would not refuse to name the membership of interdepartmental committees or  when they have reported? Does the failure to answer a question which I put on the notice paper asking for the numbers, composition and functions of each of the interdepartmen  tal  committees and their period of activity amount to a refusal to provide the information, for there is no other way in which the information can  be Obtained?  The answer he gave me was to the effect that a previous question by him was answered in the same way, but the statements he made were to draw a distinction between his attitude as it would be in government and that of the previous Government. Is this not a clear contradiction of his clear words? 
This motion for the suspension of Standing Orders is properly brought. If the motion is not passed it will be only because the Government is using its numbers in this House - everybody knows that it has the numbers - simply in a blind response to protect members of its Party, without having the slightest regard for the conventions of government which have existed for centuries and which are known as the Westminister conventions. The conventions of Westminister have existed for some centuries. The basis of the convention to which I refer is that, when a government governs, there must be within the government a need for total and complete communication between the government and the Public Service and total and complete communication between the Ministers making up the government. In accordance with that convention, when the government goes out of office, it is the responsibility of the Secretary of the Cabinet Office to lock up all the papers of that previous government. 
The convention is for the Secretary of the Cabinet Office to lock up all the papers of that government and submit them to Archives. From Archives they will be available only after the expiration of a 25-year period. In the meantime they can be made available only with the consent of the leader of the Opposition party. Within the convention there is also a very strict instruction in terms of the convention to the Permanent Head of every department that he should take out of the files in the department all personal documents that are submissions, decisions or correspondence between Ministers, and keep them away from the incoming Minister. I do not speak of this without authority. There is plenty of written authority about the convention and the most recent one made was by Richard Crossman, whose name will be well known to Government supporters. He said: 
Though I know of no book or document in which they are written out, the procedures to be followed in the Cabinet Offices and in each Ministry or Department when a new Government takes over are well established and understood throughout Whitehall. Some of them involve considerable work before the election - or more probably during the actual campaign, when the Minister is otherwise engaged and his Private Office has time at its disposal. The most important of these procedures is the removal from the files of any document which is either wholly or partly composed by the Minister, or contains any annotation by him or even his signature. The departmental records when presented to an incoming Minister of the Opposition side must be pure arid undefined by the hand of any politician. The reason for this is twofold. In the first place, the incoming Minister must not have the advantage of knowing the views and reactions of his predecessor. Secondly, and much more important, the outgoing Minister must not be embarrassed by his incoming enemy obtaining an insight into his confidential minutes, drafts and conclusions, which could contradict his public utterances. 
The purpose of that is so that government can go on. How can the Minister for Minerals and Energy himself write to another Minister if it is to become the property of anybody else? Last night the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  said: 
I should like to read some excerpts from a section of a speech prepared by the Minister for National Development in the days of the Gorton Government. 
He quoted from it; this morning the Minister for Minerals and Energy made an admission that that was so. The purpose of the motion under consideration is to appoint a select committee. If the motion is not able to be moved, and it can be moved only if Standing Orders are suspended, then it is a further contradiction of the parliamentary system which the present Labor Government is determined to achieve. 
I move: 
That the Speaker's ruling be dissented from in that it is open for the honourable member for Sturt to call for the tabling of the whole document and not part only of that document when the  Speaker  has ruled it should be tabled and not be confined to doing it forthwith, for he cannot know then the implications of part only of that document being tabled. 
Today we have had an extraordinary situation. The Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  when asked to table a document had a spring clip that clipped a whole group of papers together. He quoted from the document. He was ordered to table it by the  Speaker  at the insistance of the Opposition. He showed very great reluctance to do so for a considerable period of time and then in a most extraordinary fashion, with total loss of temper, in a fury and a rage, he threw it from the other side of the table. It is not known to us whether he threw it at the  Clerk  or at the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party. 
asked the Minister for Social 
Security, upon notice: 
What are the functions of the Special Projects Division of his Department. 
How many permanent, temporary or exempt positions have been created or are proposed for the Division. 
How many of these positions are intended to solely or partly service the Poverty Inquiry and the National Superannuation Inquiry. 
Is it intended that the positions referred to in part (3) will be abolished or transferred to other Divisions of the Department when the two inquiries are completed. 
If not, what will be the functions of these positions when the inquiries are completed. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
What is the current staffing establishment of that part of his Department concerned with information services. 
What is the estimated establishment as at June 1974. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. Last week the Prime Minister stated that the Parliament is entitled to the same information as is given at his Press conferences. Will he now state the decisions made by Cabinet since the last Press conference? 
 I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the Prime Minister announcing to the House the decisions reached by the Government since his last Press conference. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
How many (a) primary industries, (b) manufacturing industries and (c) wholesale and retail industries have a turn-over greater than $20m per year. 
What is the name of each of them, and what was the actual turn-over in each case in 1971-72. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
Can he say in what areas of the capital and major regional cities there are urban renewal projects being undertaken by: (a) the Australian Government, (b) the State Government, (c) local governments, (d) private enterprise, and (e) any of the foregoing in conjoint co-operation. 
Can he also say what is the nature of the capital funding in each case. 
In the expected application of the incomes power which the Australian Government hopes to obtain does the Prime Minister agree that it will involve imposing a maximum income which can be charged and paid and that it will create an offence, which will be a criminal offence, for exceeding it? Will the same criminality apply to paying more wages than are fixed by his Government as would apply to charging a bigger price than is fixed by this Government? 
 The situation is quite absurd. The Government gave notice of this Bill at 9 o'clock last night. We have not even yet had the second reading of the Bill - it is 2.15 p.m. - and it is proposed by the Government, in a quite cynical departure from all parliamentary decorum and rules, now to put down a guillotine on this Bill which will prevent any possibility whatever of adequate discussion of all the implications of it. The people of Australia, under this Bill, from all we have read about it in the Press - we have not heard one word about it so far in this House - are to be asked to give power over incomes to the Commonwealth, and we are asked to pass it all - I have forgotten exactly what the hours proposed were - by 4.15 or 4.30 today. That will allow about 2 hours debate for this House to decide whether or not the people of Australia should have the opportunity to vote for the most far reaching powers they have ever been asked to give and for powers which the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  perpetually did not want. 
We are entitled to have a full debate on this, to have it explained to us why the Prime Minister's sudden volte-face has occurred, why he has somersaulted in the way he has and why his Caucus has somersaulted in the way it has. The idea that we should have the second reading stage completed by 4 o'clock and the Committee stage by 4.15 is an outrageous misuse of all parliamentary precedent and practice. If it is persisted with by the Government one can only regard it as a total declaration that from now on this Government is in so much trouble that it will refuse debate. Has it no confidence in what it is putting forward? Has it no confidence in its power to explain what it is it wants and why it wants it? It would take all the time allotted for the Prime Minister to explain why he wants it. 
What incomes are to be covered? Why is it that the Caucus has changed its mind? The Prime Minister will need 2 hours to explain what incomes are covered. Does the proposal include wages? What is to happen to the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission? What is to happen to wage relativity? What is to happen to collective bargaining? Are there to be sanctions? By sanctions I mean is it to be a criminal offence to pay more or to demand more than the Government imposes. Every person in this country is entitled to know that. The work force of this country is about 6 million. Add to that people who are self employed and those who are retired. Are incomes to extend to interest on past savings? Is the legislation to apply also to superannuation? We need these points made clear. I will shortly be speaking on this Bill. I will be asking these questions. If they are not answered because there is no time, the reason why there is no time is entirely the fault of the Government. There can be no doubt that if the Government persists with this motion it is making a declaration that from now on to it Parliament is a sham. If it has complaints about a military coup in Chile because it superseded the parliamentary system, all we can think of is that it has no concern for the parliamentary system itself. It now remains to see whether it will persist with this totally undemocratic, outrageous proposal. 
 The second reading speech is remarkable for what it does not say. But let us examine some of the things that it does say. This Bill is said to be .a companion to the Bill passed by the House last week. It so happens that its companion is in one chamber and this - the companion - is in another chamber. There is a history behind that which I will deal with shortly. But just what is the argument for the proposal? It rests on the words: 'It would be helpful to have should the need arise'. What an extraordinary proposal, that it would be just helpful to have if the need should arise. There is not a single word about the policy, the way in which it would be developed and the way in which it would be used. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  quoted an answer he gave the other day. Why did the Government not do it itself? Why did it look for an opponent to do it? The answer is that the Government was gutless - quite gutless - about the issue and the companionship it has now discovered took a very long time in the finding. The Prime Minister said that the Government will operate flexibly and selectively and it will act responsibly. We know what has happened to all the other Government actions and how responsible it has been since it has been in office. No government in the history of Australian politics, with one exception, has lost favour with the public as rapidly as this Government has in the 10 months it has been in office. That is because it has failed to act responsibly. The second reading speech says that the Government will seek to maintain an improved purchasing power of the people's earnings. Its attempt to maintain the purchasing power has totally failed up to now, as the statistics on inflation and price rises prove. 
In his speech the Prime Minister said that the national Parliament could guarantee basic standards throughout the nation. What does that mean? Does it mean a power to level down in the community to maintain basic standards? Does it mean that the Commmon.wealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission will no longer have a role in fixing national minimum wages and that it will be done by the Prime Minister and a Cabinet subject to the suzerainty of the Caucus and of the trade union movement? That is what it means. The words used by the Prime Minister in his speech were: 
We are of course aware that there are differences of opinion whether this power over incomes, in addition to the power over prices, is really necessary to deal with inflation. 
He does not say that he believes that it is necessary. Nowhere in the speech does he say that. He said that he is aware of differences of opinion, but he has not stated the view of the 
Government on it, because the truth is that it is lying down on this proposal. It does not want this proposal to pass. It has done a very mangy deal with the Australian Democratic Labor Party and it is terrified of the unions. 
This second reading speech presents no argument other than the argument 'Let us have it'. There is no examination of the way in which it would be used. There is no strong argument for it. Nobody could suggest that there is a strong argument for it, and the reason for that is the deal the Government has done with the DLP. And it is feeling very ashamed of it. There is loud laughter from the other side of the chamber. But who is there on the other side who up until today would have been prepared to embrace the DLP? Today if Government supporters vote for this legislation they embrace the DLP. 1 oppose this referendum proposal because the Government is not tackling inflation with the proposal at all. It is a travesty of an attack on inflation. The Government is taking advantage of a temporary bad situation of accelerating inflation which it created. It created the temporary inflationary situation and it wants to hoodwink the Australian public into giving it permanent powers which it does not need for curing the problem we are confronting today. It is a problem of today. The Government is looking to get power to change the whole social and economic order of Australia tomorrow. That is the whole purpose of its platform policy and rules. If it wants to tackle inflation it should have a full anti-inflationary policy which would proceed on the basis of economic responsibility to control total demand in Australia. To do so it would need to take action to control Government spending and public sector spending. For this it needs no extra powers or referendum at all. This is the first major step to take. It could be taken today by a government which had the will to tackle inflation. 
The Government has never at any time accepted that an income-prices policy is a necessary supplement to a major attack on inflation. It has presented these proposals in this way in the hope that the incomes proposal will be rejected and the prices proposal will be accepted. That is the whole purpose of the tactic the Government has adopted. Now, as a travesty, it has put forward 2 separate proposals, one on prices and one on incomes, in a grab for permanent power. Control over prices and incomes should not be a permanent feature of the economic management of a country such as Australia* I have always said that and I say it again today because it is true. It is a permanent feature of a totalitarian government. The granting of the power will be an encouragement to create that situation. Australia is - at least so I thought until a few moments ago - still a parliamentary democracy, but the way in which the Government is handling this Bill shows that it has no commitment to parliamentary democracy. Through the constant use of the gag and the guillotine the Government is pushing legislation through the Parliament in a senseless use of its. numbers, which makes one doubt that the Australian Labor Party has a commitment to the parliamentary system. It has put itself in a disgraceful situation. 
Last week the Constitution Alteration (Prices) Bill was introduced. Now we have before us a purported second issue or companion issue, the Constitution Alteration (Incomes) Bill. The 2 Bills are closely linked, even if separated by different chambers and by the passage of 2 weeks. Why were they not submitted at the one time? We know the answer to that. The Prime Minister could not control his Caucus. He did not even want the Constitution Alteration (Prices) Bill at the start. The Prime Minister certainly did not know his own mind. He also did not know Caucus's mind, the Australian Democratic Labor Party's mind or  Mr Hawke's  mind. He was also not to know what a belting he would get from the voters in the Parramatta byelection who were sick and tired of the confusion which has masqueraded as government. 
I have proposed a comprehensive attack on inflation. I have proposed a package of measures to fight inflation across the board in cooperation with the States and not by seeking permanent new powers for the Commonwealth. Such permanent powers are not necessary to meet what should be temporary problems of inflation - and would be only temporary if the Government had had the courage to tackle them. So we must ask ourselves whether, by seeking permanent powers, the Labor Government anticipates permanent problems with inflation. Does it not believe that it can tackle them while it continues to pursue its present policies? Many believe the Labor Government wants a permanent high rate of inflation to fill the coffers of the Treasury which would enable it to meet some of the unrealistic election promises which won it power and which now seem meaningless. We have already had the rejection of a promise on defence spending by the 

 Deputy Prime Minister  (Mr Barnard)  - a very substantial cut. We have also had the screwing of the knife in the back of the Prime Minister by the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  over the 35-hour working week promise to public servants. The Minister for Labour, while masquerading as a supporter of the Prime Minister, is pushing the knife deeper into the ribs of the Prime Minister. 
No one will deny that the problem of inflation is now critical. The increasing cost of living since Labor came to office is staggering. The Prime Minister and the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  have sought, with naively contrived statistics, to foist responsibility onto the previous Government, but they have failed. Let us examine objectively the figures provided by the Commonwealth Statistician. They cannot be denied, although the Government may be tempted to try to do so. Those figures show that the consumer price index movements in 1972 were as follows: For the first quarter, one per cent; for the second quarter, 0.9 per cent; for the third quarter, 1.4 per cent and for the fourth quarter, 1.2 per cent. The total for 1972 was 4.5 per cent. 
Let us examine the figures for 1973 and see what has happened since the advent of the Labor Government. The consumer price index for the first quarter was 2.1 per cent and for the second quarter 3.3 per cent - a total of 5.4 per cent. In the first 6 months of 1973 the consumer price index had already moved up higher than it did in the whole of 1972. The cost of living increase during the first 6 months of Labor rule was outrageously high. What is even more alarming is what has been said by the Treasurer - that is, the Treasurer who is away and not the Acting Treasurer  (Mr Hayden),  who today gave the Prime Minister a bit of a kick in the ribs when he said that it is important for the people to support Government action, whereas the Prime Minister presents no arguments to the people. On the one hand we have the Acting Treasurer saying that arguments must be presented to the public and on the other we have the Prime Minister steadfastly refusing to do so. The Treasurer has said that the figures for the September quarter, which will come out on about 20 October, will be even worse than they were for the June quarter. The pessimistic judgment of the Treasurer no doubt will be right because the monthly food index rose by 2.8 per cent in July, in one month. 
What has the Government done to reduce or even contain the alarming increases which are eroding the incomes, threatening the well-being and depressing the spirit of Australian people? It has equivocated, it has vacillated and it has taken piecemeal measures - sometimes of a grandiose nature to distract attention from their ineffectiveness as anti-inflationary measures. We have now had the extraordinary situation of a prices referendum being proposed one week and a separate incomes measure being proposed the next week. This is supposed to represent a concerted and coherent attack on inflation. It is wobbly political expediency. 
The Prime Minister has argued for prices justification - justification, not control. He has always claimed constitutional power for such justification. On 30 August he said: 
It is important to remember that our approach is one of price justification, not price control. The emphasis in our anti-inflationary program is on voluntary co-operation. 
He said that on 30 August, but he did  po'  repeat it last week and he did not repeat it today. The Acting Treasurer is out of line. He is still listening to the old record - and that is what he was trying to say today. The Opposition, while arguing that the proposed prices justification tribunal would not work, did not oppose the Bill to establish such a tribunal. The Opposition stands vindicated in its opinion because the Prime Minister has, by his action today, admitted that it is a failure. In fact, it is steadily becoming a prices exemption tribunal. It is a shoddy example of increased spending of Government money, and for what purpose - to be abandoned now. 
The Treasurer might as well be in Timbuktoo instead of Nairobi for all the contribution he has made. The only contribution he has made was not to be here yesterday while caucus was discussing this proposal because he opposes it. As is well known, he he has not even been given an opportunity to vote on it. At last the components of the unholy trinity are away at the same time - the Minister for Overseas Trade and Minister for Secondary Industry  (Dr J. F. Cairns),  who is the Minister for everything, the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson),  who is the Minister for nothing, and the Treasurer, who is a Minister in search of a portfolio. The Acting Treasurer is making it quite clear that that poor chap is going to have an awfully hard battle when he gets back. The only contribution the Treasurer has made to controlling inflation has been to say in his Budget Speech that he could do nothing about it and, then to make the staggering statement that inflation did not start on 2 December. What he has done for inflation has distressed every Australian family. 
Then there is the Joint Committee on Prices, which is a committee of both Houses of the Parliament. It was to be in the forefront of the Government's attack on rising prices. What have we had from it? A hopelessly inadequate majority report. The luckless  Chairman  of the Committee, the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  has conceded that the majority recommendations of the Committee in the report presented last week are out of date. What has he had to say? He said that if a crisis arises in the future, at least we will have done the work. So much for this prong in the Government's attack on inflation - a prong so blunt it could not prick an 'It's Time' balloon. The Prime Minister is on record as saying that he did not want a prices referendum, that it was forced on him. Now he says that we will have the incomes referendum because the DLP wants it. The caucus, that economic committee of 93, had other ideas and the Constitution Alteration (Incomes) Bill was introduced. 
The Prime Minister's speech, as we heard, was a very desultory effort. He saw the problem with the Senate, but he was also prepared to deal with the DLP. Who is churching the old whore now? Can honourable members imagine the enticing scene of the Prime Minister and  Senator McManus  kissing and making up? 
1 repeat: This was willingly offered because these Premiers and leaders realise the evil of inflation for social and economic development, that it unfairly distributes incomes, capriciously and cruelly to many, and advantageously to the rich, something that the Prime Minister and the Treasurer took a great deal longer to see and still do not fully understand. When the Prime Minister attempted to denigrate this proposition he said that it was essential for the New South Wales and Victorian Governments to refer these powers. Both  Sir Robert  Askin and  Mr Hamer  have repeated their willingness to do all things necessary on a temporary basis. They are unwilling to surrender the power permanently I think that they are right in that view. 
This bout of inflation is a serious problem for the present. These referenda have nothing to do with controlling inflation. If they had. the Government would be able to say how ii would use the powers and would not be fiddling, fidgeting and ducking when asked. The Labor Party is concerned with concentrating power in the Federal Government to do what and how it likes. It is time that Ministers realised what this situation really demands, lt demands an attack on inflation, not an attack on the States. A real attack by collective power would be effected in a matter of weeks. The referenda with their extremely doubtful chance of success will take months. What will the rate of inflation be then? It could be 15 per cent or 20 per cent - the rate is anybody's guess. 
My proposals call for a 90-day freeze. The referendum calls for more concentration of power in the Commonwealth Government. 1 have called for co-operation to provide a circuit breaker during which time guidelines on prices and incomes would be worked out to achieve public support. This referendum would provide power to impose unforeseen Government rules and regulations on people without their consent, for once given in a referendum this power could be used as the Government wishes. To say that we could debate such a matter in this House when we have seen examples of the way in which the Government guillotines and gags these measures through the House is to make nonsense of that statement. 
The task of economic rationality in any country is made easier by the existence of a forum for examination of issues, not political horse trading. We must nationally be able to review the progress of our attack on inflation and our success in curbing rising prices and incomes, the way in which economic development should proceed and how effectively our resources are being used, and be able to appraise the results. This would give a sense of continuity. Yet, the Prime Minister refuses to give any support to this idea at all. He obstinately refuses to call the Premiers together, even the Premiers from Sydney and Melbourne. 
The Government has no full policy and he would have to admit it. By its actions, it has been left with the use of monetary measures only, and these have been handled with characteristic ineptitude. The Government is now dealing with this urgent problem of inflation by raising interest rates. Nobody yet knows the interest rates for mortgages, present and future, as well as those for hire purchase agreements, cars, refrigerators, television sets and washing machines. They will go up. They will add to costs. But we do not yet know by how much. 
How can the Government handle a complicated subject like incomes and prices without help when it cannot make a decision on interest rates in a fortnight? With power on prices and incomes the Government will be able to say: Interest rates are up, but you are not allowed to charge those increased rates'. If that is not the way to bring to its knees the private sector and if that is not action that will be harmful to all those people in receipt of social service benefits, there is a misunderstanding among people of the results of such action. 
I have said before, and I say again: The Federal Government must first establish its policy to attack inflation, just as firmly as it has established its policy to attack the States. It must take the first steps itself. Then, it must co-operate with the States as a second stage. The States are willing. Why is the Prime Minister such a reluctant dragon? Certainly the New South Wales and Victorian Governments have shown their willingness. I adhere to the proposals that I have put forward unqualifiedly. There is no need for a permanent power to deal with a temporary situation, however grave. The Government is reckless about the major consideration, that of raging inflation. It has a mania to acquire more power for itself. This Bill and the referendum should be rejected. 
asked the Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
Can he indicate the total estimated value of Japanese investment in Papua New Guinea. 
If so, what are the main geographical areas in which this investment occurs. 
In which main industries and developments is Japanese investment involved. 
Are Japanese investments in Papua New Guinea secured by the Japanese Government; if so, how. 
Are Japanese investors able to borrow money for such investments at rates as low as 0.5 per cent; If so, under what arrangements is this done. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Did he in answer to my question No. 382 (Hansard, 10 May 1973, page 2049) say that it is believed that the Yugoslav Government has sources of information within the Yugoslav community in Australia. 
If so, (a) who has this belief, (b) on what basis was the belief formed and (c) what is the belief. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What is the estimate of the increase in income tax collections for each 0.5 per cent increase in average weekly earnings beyond the forecast 13 per cent during the year 1973-74. 
I ask the Minister for Minerals and Energy: Will he table gently the minutes of the Snowy Mountains Council meetings held in the last 4 weeks in entirety including decisions made by the Council in a telephone hook-up between members of the Council on 23 September? . 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What are the names of any drug companies operating within Australia which are wholly or partially owned by Australians. 
What is the component of Australian share holding in each of the companies. 
What pharmaceuticals do these companies manufacture. 
What percentage of the market of each of these named pharmaceuticals do the company's brand names have. 
asked the Minister for Social Security,  upon  notice: 
How many applications have been received for grants under the Aged Persons Hostels Act since 27 September 1972. 
How many applications have been (a) approved and (b) rejected. 
Can he state the main reasons for organisations not taking up their notional entitlements to free hostel beds. 
What is the estimated expenditure under the scheme for its intended duration, i.e. up to 27 September 1975. 
How many hostel beds is it estimated will have been provided as a result of the scheme by 27 September 1975. 
asked the Minister for Social 
Security, upon notice: 
What would be the cost in a financial year of extending the provisions of the personal care subsidy payable under the Aged Persons Homes Act to include hostel residents 75 years of age and over. 
asked the Minister for Social 
Security, upon notice: 
What staff savings have been made in the Victorian offices of his Department following the conversion of pensioner and endowee records to microfiche. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Did he announce on 3 July 1973 that public servants would in future be permitted, in certain circumstances, to hold company directorships, in other than co-operative societies as previously permitted. 
If so, what stage has been reached in the drafting of amendments to the Public Service Act. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Did he at any time give an undertaking or commitment of any kind to the British Minister for Defence, Lord Carrington, to the effect that Australia would maintain its forces in Singapore under the Five Power Arrangements. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Will he provide a list of the interdepartmental committees which have been established since 2 December 1972 on which officers of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet and the Department of Foreign Affairs are members. 
I seek leave to make a short statement,  Mr Speaker. 
At the commencement of his statement the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  referred to dropouts. These referenda proposals fit precisely into that category - they are dropouts. The second point I wish to make is that the Prime Minister just cannot resist resorting to personal abuse whenever he is challenged on his policies. There was no reason whatever for the Prime Minister to refer to the recent health of the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  and make nasty insinuations about it. The Opposition will always give the honourable gentleman leave to make statements about policy, but it regards it as reprehensible on his part to seize the opportunity, when challenged on policy, to make a personal attack upon the honourable member for Mackellar. It is unfitting of a member of this House. It is particularly unfitting of the Prime Minister. 
The Prime Minister said in his statement: 
No doubt those who voted against the proposals will also be arranging for arguments to be prepared for submission to the Chief Australian Electoral Officer. 
I will be making arrangements, on behalf of those who voted against the proposals, for the preparation of an argument for submission to the Chief Australian Electoral Officer. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Did he state during his recent visit to the United States of America that Thailand and the Philippines should be prodded into a more realistic situation; if so, what did he mean by this statement. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Were other members of the South East Asia Treaty Organisation consulted before the announcement of Australia's withdrawal from SEATO exercises planned for October 1973; if so, which countries and when. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Did Australia have a representative or observer at the recent non-aligned nations conference in Algiers. 
Was an invitation of any kind for Australia to be present (a) received or (b) sought by the Australian Government. 
asked the Minister for Foreign 
Affairs, upon notice: 
Did he state on 27 January 1973, in relation to his concept of a regional organisation that it should be genuinely representative of the region without ideological overtones, conceived as an initiative to help free the region of great power rivalries that have bedevilled its progress for decades and designed to insulate the region against ideological interference from the great powers, and that the Government would be punctilious in consultation? towards the realisation of a representative regional community. 
If so, does he see the great powers as being excluded from this regional community. 
Does he include the People's Republic of China, Japan and India among the great powers. 
Does he regard the Soviet Union as having a legitimate interest in a community involving the Asian region. 
What countries have so far been consulted about the development of a truly representative regional community, when did these consultations take place and where were they held. 
My question is to the Minister for Minerals and Energy. Have any feasibility or cost benefit analysis studies been made, or are any now being made, of the development of a national pipeline grid and further exploitation and exploration of the north-west natural gas reserves? How much capital investment will be involved and how much of that capital investment will be by way of public funds? Will the Minister table these reports immediately? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Minerals and Energy. Have any feasibility studies been made of the manner in which uranium contracts that have been entered into by potential or current Australian producers of uranium are to be filled? Has any decision been reached by the Government to prevent some potential producers from honouring their contracts and to put them into the hands of other producers? If such feasibility studies have been conducted, will the Minister table -them? Have any feasibility studies been made by the Government as to the potential for future markets for Australian production of uranium? 
 Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes, I was misrepresented this morning by the Prime Minister when in answering a question he persisted in saying that 'I had advocated a wage freeze. Left in those terms, it is a misrepresentation. I am quite sure that the Prime Minister knows that what I have said is that the attack on inflation must be by a full range of policies, that only by a full range of policies will an attack on inflation succeed, and that it is not necessary for any extra powers to be given to the Commonwealth for that full range of policies to be put into effect. I did say that with inflation at an annual rate of more than 13 per cent it would be necessary to have a circuit breaker to interrupt the inflationary psychology and therefore there should be a freeze on both incomes and prices for a period not exceeding 90 days. I said that it must be temporary and that a wage freeze or a prices freeze could not in itself arrest inflation and should not be a permanent feature of economic management. I said that it had failed everywhere else and it could be used only as a circuit breaker. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
How many applications have been received for the domiciliary nursing care benefit since its inception. 
How many of these applications have been rejected. 
What were the major reasons for rejection. 
What is the age distribution of approved patients. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
How many women who have commenced training under the training scheme for widow pensioners have completed the course since its inception in 1968. 
What have been the types of course undertaken. 
What has been the average training period involved in each type of course. 
What has been the nature of the employment gained subsequent to the course. 
What has been the average time lag between completion of course and gaining employment. 
What has been the average cost per woman of the provision of such training. 
What has been the age distribution of women involved in the scheme. 
What has been the number of women supporting (a) one child, (b) two children, (c) three children and (d) four or more children while undertaking the course. 
In respect of the women completing the course in each year, what has been the length of time those women remained in continuous or relatively continuous employment following completion of training. 
MrHayden - The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
4205 women have completed training. 
The following types of courses were undertaken in 1972/73: 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
What is the function of the proposed special purpose facility for mildly mentally retarded persons to be located in Melbourne. 
What categories of staff will be employed at these centres, and in what numbers. 
How many persons is it estimated will attend these centres in the first 3 years of their operation. 
Where will these centres be located. 
What is the estimated annual cost of running these centres. 
What is the relationship between this special purpose facility and the work preparation centre planned for Melbourne. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
What is the name and location of rehabilitation centres that have been established or are planned in each State for the treatment of handicapped children. 
What is the purpose of each centre. 
How many persons attend each centre. 
What categories of handicapped persons are treated at the centre, and how many persons are involved in each category. 
What is the size of the staff at each centre, and what disciplines are the professionally qualified staff members trained in. 
What is the age distribution of persons undergoing rehabilitation at each centre. 
What is the average period of rehabilitation given to persons treated at each centre. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
What is the age distribution of children attending training centres subsidised under the Handicapped Children (Assistance) Act. 
What is the name and locality of each of these subsidised centres. 
What is the name and location of each accommodation centre for which a grant has been approved by the Government under this Act. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Did the Yugoslav Ambassador call on him on 16 August 1973 and advise him that the Yugoslav Government will make available details of the trials in Yugoslavia' of eight men who held Australian citizenship. 
If so, will he undertake to make these records available to the Parliament; if not, why not 
Has he given any commitment to the Yugoslav Government in relation to these records. 
asked the Minister for Services and Property, upon notice: 
What provisions have been made or are intended to be made to enable disabled employees and officers of the Public Service to obtain parking facilities near the offices in which they are employed. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Did he say in Canada on 9 August 1973 that, in the United Nations, Australia had voted with Britain, the United States of America, France, South Africa and Portugal against all Australia's neighbours. 
If so, will he enumerate the cases that occurred during the two years prior to 2 December 1972. 
My question is addressed to either the Minister for Transport, the Minister for Secondary Industry or the Minister for Overseas Trade, whoever is the appropriate Minister. I would like to have the demarcation dispute resolved by the Minister who answers the question. What ship construction orders will be placed and when will these be placed to ensure the continuance of employment in the shipbuilding industry in Maryborough in the electorate of Wide Bay and thus ensure the viability of this town as a centre for decentralised growth? 
 I move: 
That progress be reported. 
Yes. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  supports the privilege motion which I want to put but the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  will not allow me to do so. 
 I have a matter of privilege which I wish to raise. It is based upon an article published in the Sydney 'Daily Telegraph' of today, Thursday 11 October 1973. 
The article appears under the heading Torres Strait Scheme under Attack'. I produce a copy of the 'Daily Telegraph' printed and published by Mirror Newspapers Ltd of 2 Holt Street, Surry Hills on behalf of Nationwide News Pty Ltd. I should make the point immediately that the issue of privilege relates in no way to the newspaper itself. The newspaper reports a letter which was sent by  Mr Dexter,  who is the permanent head of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. The letter was addressed to  Dr Coombs  who, among many other duties, is a special adviser to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  I understand that he is  Chairman  of the Aboriginal Affairs Council. The report says that  Mr Dexter's  letter to  Dr Coombs  related to evidence to be given to the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation. I have ascertained that both  Mr Dexter  and  Dr Coombs  in fact gave evidence before that Committee. As I have not the letter I am unable to say whether the letter was written before or after their evidence to the Committee. One must assume that it was a letter written before their appearance before the Committee having regard to the quote from the letter which is included in the newspaper report. The newspaper reports: 
We should not assume that all those we will be talking to will be interested in getting at the facts. 
I have no doubt that at least one of them seeks nothing else than the abandonment of the Turtle Project or in putting what remains of it after restructuring under the direct control of the Thursday Island Co-operative. 
We should therefore exercise discretion in what. we say in particular in relation to those aspects where we may not yet have determined our own approach, such as marketing. 
I wish to refer to Erskine May's 'Parliamentary Practice'. On page 114 under the heading Conspiracy to Deceive either House or Committees of Either House' it reads: 
It has already been seen that the giving of false evidence, prevarication or suppression of the truth by witnesses while under examination before either House or before committees of either House is punished as a contempt; 
I will real the following words for the sake of completeness but I do not want any allegation to be read into my reading of them: and that persons who present false, forged or fabricated documents to either House or to committees of either House are guilty of a breach of privilege. 
The point I wish to make is contained in the next sentence, which reads: 
Conspiracy to deceive either House or any committees of either House will also be treated as a breach of privilege. 
It hardly needs for me to say, but I think it worth saying for what I say will no doubt be reported, that privilege in this sense does not relate in any way to the personal advantages of any member of the House. Privilege in this sense relates to the House being able to discharge its functions fearlessly without any fear of consequences or without any reward for what is done. It is on that basis that I raise this matter. Can the House or in this case the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation be regarded as being defeated in getting at all the facts and all the truth of the matter which they were examining? Concerned as I was about the matter I wrote a letter to the Prime Minister. It was delivered to him this evening. I have had that letter returned to me with a notation from the Prime Minister. I notice the Prime Minister is at the table and I assume I have the authority of the Prime Minister to report what was in the letter and the reply the Prime Minister made. 
The letter reads: 
My dear Prime Minister, 
A serious issue has been raised concerning the administration of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs involving  Dr H.  C. Coombs- 
I have no objection but it is quite a short letter and it might be as well to read it in whole. The letter reads: 
 The Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  has spoken presumably as a matter of indulgence, for he was speaking to no motion. 
Given that the honourable gentleman was not called by you to speak- 
The Leader of the House is protecting himself from the charge, which is a correct charge, that he knew that a matter of privilege was to be raised but he took action to prevent it being raised when I entered the chamber. The fact is that he forced a division on the motion that progress be reported. When I was Leader of the House, the counting of a division was estimated to take 7 minutes or 8 minutes. I do not know whether the tellers are faster with their pencils these days but I think the counting of that division took 7 minutes or 8 minutes. The amount of time which I took to outline my case on privilege I am sure was less than would have remained from the time I first sought to move my motion until 10.15. 
Very well. 
If the honourable gentleman had had in his mind the importance of the parliamentary system and the importance of the issue of privilege not only would he not have obstructed me from moving to debate the matter but also he would have taken every step available to him as the Leader of the House to allow me to do so forthwith. It does no credit to the honourable gentleman that he adopted the course that he did. What we have discovered in recent days is that he has lost his touch because he has lost his confidence. 

 Mr DALY (Grayndler- Leader of the House) -  Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
How many copies of the pamphlet 'The Australian Health Insurance Program - The Plain Facts' were (a) printed and (b) distributed. 
What was the cost of (a) compilation, (b) printing, and (c) distribution. 
Who were the authors of the pamphlet. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. Did  Dr Coombs,  who I understand is the honourable gentleman's closest economic adviser, call for increased taxation rates at the National Press Club last week? Have there been reports that a minibudget will be introduced in November? Did the policy speech of the honourable gentleman guarantee that rates of taxation would not be increased? Wilt the Prime Minister reaffirm this pledge not to raise rates of taxation? 

 - Mr Speaker, I would like to make a personal explanation. 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
With reference to his statements that the Commonwealth has contributed $4 19m towards the oil exploration program in Australia, does the calculation of subsidy allow for amounts that have been paid back or will be paid back in the future; if so, in what way has the calculation been derived. 
Does the figure of $4 19m derive from calculations of money contributed and assessed from individual personal income tax returns or from gross amounts nominated by companies or both; if so, in what way are these figures derived. 
Does the figure of $4 19m include potential capital writeoffs; if so, (a) what figure has been used as the basis for these calculations, and (b) in what way does the figure take into account the unsuccessful program which can never be written off. 
What have been the (a) annual and (b) total amounts paid under section 77d of the Income Tax Assessment Act since its inception, and what is the projected figure for 1972-73. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
What is the intended function of the work preparation centres approved for Melbourne and Sydney to cater for mildly mentally retarded school leavers. 
What categories of staff will be employed at these centres, and in what numbers. 
How many persons is it estimated will attend these centres in the first 3 years of their operation. 
Where will these centres be located. 
What is the estimated annual cost of running these centres. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Did he at any time give an undertaking or commitment of any kind to the British Minister for Defence, Lord Carrington, to the effect that Australia would maintain its forces in Singapore under the Five Power Arrangements. 
asked the Minister for Social 
Security, upon notice: 
What travel concessions does the Government provide to pensioners to undertake interstate trips. 
Is he able to provide details of travel concessions given to pensioners by each State Government. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon  notice: 
With reference to the 46 commissions, committees and inquiries established by the Government between 2 December 1972 and 31 May 1973, (a) which have produced reports on their work, (b) which reports are available to the public, (c) which reports have been tabled in Parliament and when were they tabled and (d) when is it expected that the remainder will complete their work or produce reports, and how many of these reports will be made public. 
What further commissions committees, inquiries or similar arrangements have been instituted since 31 May 1973, 
asked the Treasurer, upon  notice: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 707 which I asked on 31 May 1973. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Services and Property. Will the Minister bring in forthwith the legislation which for some mystical and unknown reason he feels is a threat to us? Will he have a debate today on the issues relating to it? We do not need to wait until the legislation is introduced; we could debate this issue now. We could debate it today and we can debate it when the legislation comes in later. I hear the Minister for Transport saying something about being exposed. Who is to be exposed? The Minister? He is the exposee. He cannot even run a tram, let alone a whole transport system. We support legislation which provides for the disclosure of political party funds. I ask the Minister: Will he ensure that the legislation is such that it will not work exclusively to Labor's favour? For instance, will he ensure that all contributions are tax deductible? 
The honourable gentleman asks why. The answer is because the trade unions make contributions to the Labor Party and not only are contributions to trade union funds tax deductible but trade union funds themselves are totally tax free. Will the Minister agree to another amendment which would restrict the application of the law to organisations and not to individuals, thus protecting the individual's privacy, which the Government claims to be so determined to do? Has an individual in Australia not the right to support us because he wants us in government and not the rabble opposite? Will the Minister also include in the legislation a requirement for disclosure by the contributor rather than by the recipient, thus minimising the bureaucratic and cost impact of disclosure instead of terrorising, as the honourable gentleman wants to do, every electorate in Australia by having some sort of a commission inquiring into the source of campaign funds for each election. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Into what Services are the Armed Forces in Papua New Guinea divided. 
What is the present numerical strength of each Service. 
What was the strength of each Service on 2 December 1972. 
How many expatriate officers are engaged in each Service and what are their ranks. 
How many officers of the Australian Armed Forces or officials of the Department of Defence are currently employed in defence-related tasks in Papua New Guinea. 
Is the Army or any other Service of the Armed Forces in Papua 'New Guinea being trained in internal security techniques. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Did he tell the National Press Club on 15 March 1973 that consultations had begun with the Government of Fiji on the possibility of providing military training in Australia for the Royal Fiji Military Forces; if so, what stage has been reached in the consultations. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 711 which I asked on 31 May 1973? 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
How many handicapped persons are currently employed in the Public Service. 
What has been the average period of employment of these persons. 
How many of them are employed in the clerical/administrative area, and in which Division and at what level or class. 
What percentage of the total clerical/administrative staff do they represent. 
How many handicapped persons sought employment in the Public Service between November 1972 and June 1973. 
How many of these have been granted employment. 
What were the corresponding figures in respect of parts (5) and (6) for the period November 1971 to June 1972, 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Did he indicate on 25 September 1973 that one of the reasons for the expansion that has occurred in his Department is the need to answer correspondence and questions on notice similar to question No. 964. 
What increase has occurred in correspondence received by him compared, with previous Prime Ministers. &lt;3) What is the relative number of questions on notice asked of him in the first 8 months of 1973 compared with the first 8 of 1972. 
What increase in staff or establishment has occurred because of the need to answer correspondence. 
What increase in staff or establishment has occurred because of the need to answer questions on notice directed to him as Prime Minister. 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. Has the Governor of the Reserve Bank of Australia told the trading banks that money will become scarcer and dearer to the point where it hurts? Were the banks told to reduce their lending? If so, was this done on Government instructions and specifically by the Treasurer? At what level  will interest rates be to make money dearer than at the present time when the overdraft rate is 9J per cent? 
My question is addressed to the Treasurer. The honourable gentleman just answered a question, or in fact did not answer a question, but having regard to what he said in that purported answer I now ask him: If the Governor of the Reserve Bank did use words to the effect that I have stated, did he do so with the authority of the Government or of the honourable gentleman? Secondly, having regard to the part of the answer in which he said that there were discussions before the last increase in interest rates, do I have an undertaking from the honourable gentleman that interest rates will not be further increased? 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. With inflation at such a high rate that it is doing serious social and economic harm to the community, will the Prime Minister make a statement to the House setting out the corrective measures the Government proposes in order to combat this insidious evil? Does the Government intend to concentrate its efforts on monetary policy? 
 The statement by the Leader of the Government - the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  - comes at a very strange time. Having been asked a question about what the Government intended to do about inflation, he refused to answer that question at all and he put together a long series of alleged actions taken to combat inflation. During the period in which this series of actions took place, inflation has climbed - as measured by the consumer price index - from 3.2 per cent in the months April, May and June to 3.6 per cent for the months July, August and September. Quite clearly those actions bear no relation to an attack on inflation as it exists today. Indeed, if there is to be a relationship between revaluation and the 25 per cent acrosstheboard tariff cut made without any reference whatever to the Tariff Board - a decision totally taken on a Sunday night together with a decision to increase interest rates - it is to be found in the fact that by these measures the Government has made inflation more severe and more savage in Australia rather than take any action to eliminate it. If the Government's actions are to have any effect it will be in the long term, and that long term effect next year is very likely to lead to unemployment in Australia. 
Among the various meassures which were alleged by the Prime Minister to have made an impact on inflation, which have brought it from 2.1 per cent in the first quarter this year to 3.3 per cent in the second quarter and 3.6 in the third quarter, was the Prices Justification Tribunal legislation. That piece of legislation was before this House on 17 May. It is now 22 October. In the statement the Prime Minister made he said that the inquiry into steel prices is the first inquiry to be conducted by the Tribunal. The Prices Justification Tribunal is being referred to by most people as the prices exemption tribunal, because the greatest amount of work it has had to do has been to exempt companies so that they could charge the extra amount involved in the imposts of the Budget of the Treasurer  (Mr Crean).  It was known as the prices exemption tribunal when all those hundreds of exemptions were going through. The first inquiry relates to Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd. Is this a multi-national corporation about which the heretics on the other side of the House keep screaming? No, this company is the major Australian company. 
Opposition members - Yes. 
 I sought leave to make a statement on the Prices Justification Tribunal, about which I am speaking. I deliberately used the word 'heretic' because the Australian Labor Party throughout its whole life has declared itself to be a party which supports low interest rates. In 10 months of government the Labor Party has increased interest rates by  2  per cent. That is heretical and it is entitled to have the word I used ascribed to it. The Labor Party has let down the people who trusted it. At the time of the last Commonwealth loan people relied on a 7 per cent long term bond rate but within 2 months that rate was increased to 8 per cent. This cut off almost $40m from the worth of the money that was subscribed to that loan. If that is not heretical, what is? 
Regarding the Prices Justification Tribunal, there has been a clear admission by the Goernment that what we said at the time of its establishment was correct, namely, that it would not work. We said that we would let the legislation pass. We felt that if we gave the Government enough rope it would demonstrate its incapacity to handle the question of inflation. This is exactly what has happened. In October the first report of the Tribunal has been received and it concerns Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd. That company applied for a 9.4 per cent increase in its prices because of increasing costs in its industry. Those costs were such that it had to increase its prices or else change its investment pattern. This is the sort of distortion that the Government's policy is producing. If Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd cannot increase its prices in order to recover its costs and maintain a reasonable profit level on the making of steel, quite clearly it will have to divert its investment elsewhere. What government would want investment diverted elsewhere when there is already a shortage of iron and steel products which are produced by this company? Is this a government that wants a continuing state of shortages? Is this a government that wants a diversion of the economy away from basic material production? Does the government want the real strength of the economy diverted into merely satisfying temporary consumer demand? The very fact that the Government wants a referendum on prices is, in itself, a clear admission that the Prices Justification Tribunal has failed, as everybody knew it would fail. For the Prime Minister to come into this House and proudly put down a statement, which is the first report of the Prices Justification Tribunal, and at the same time be totally unwilling to tell this House what the Government intends to do about inflation and instead trot out a series of actions that have been taken and which bear no relation to today's inflationary pressures, shows a total lack of understanding of the seriousness of the problem that we face in Australia today. 
There is no credit in this statement for the Government at all. There is no joy in it for the future of the Australian people and of Australia's economy. It can be regarded only as another contribution to confusion and uncertainty. It will make the people of Australia understand that while this Government continues in office there is not the hope for Australia which we are entitled to expect. 
 I listened with interest to the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating).  The aim of this Bill is to implement the basic recommendations of the report prepared by  Sir John  Crawford on 'A Commission to Advise on Assistance to Industries'.  Sir John  recommended that a body be set up under the name 'Industries Commission' although the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  apparently has preferred the title 'Industries Assistance Commission'. I make no point about that. It is a matter of record. In his report,  Sir John  pointed to 3 main reasons for establishing a Commission of the type considered in this Bill. The report stated: 
First, it can assist the Government to develop its policies for improving the allocation of resources among industries in Australia. Second, it can, because of its independence, be expected to provide advice on these policies which is 'disinterested'. And third, it can facilitate public scrutiny of these policies. 
The honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Edwards)  who led for the Liberal Party in this debate, the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street),  who is Liberal Party spokesman on rural matters, the honourable member for Barker  (Dr Forbes)  and the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  have adequately put views which the Liberal Party supports. Speaking for the Party generally, I say that our hope is that the Com mission will bring some objectivity and rationality to some of this Government's decisions - 2 features that have been so notably lacking in its 10 months of office. Our hope is that this Government will no longer be able to take illconsidered decisions with devastating effects on our rural industries without proper and public consideration. 
The establishment of a properly constituted Industries Assistance Commission will be a welcome improvement from the ad hoc inquiries and reports initiated by the Government through the Coombs task force and its countless other committees and inquiries. Recently the Federal President of the Liberal Party of Australia released a statement which I commend to the House. That statement said, in part: 
As a national Party we accept that we have a responsibility to evolve policies which will be to the benefit of all Australians, and the objectives of the proposed Industries Assistance Commission are consistent  wtih  this aim. 
However compelling the argument may be for assistance to any industry, primary or secondary, greater public awareness of the issues involved make it inevitable that any assistance granted must be as a result of full and open inquiry. 
Australian rural industries, which are amongst the most efficient in the world, would at last have a public forum in which their case could be presented. 
Establishment of the Industries Assistance Commission will entail an expansion of the activities of the Tariff Board in two, ways. First, the Commission will be able to review all forms of assistance; secondly, it will be able to make reports on assistance to all forms of industry. 
In supporting the general aims of the Bill I take the opportunity to make a few comments on the role the manufacturing sector has played in Australia's development. Manufacturing is now and will continue to be our core economic activity. I want to assure the manufacturing industry that its significance is acknowledged by the Liberal Party and to assure it of the value that we place on its maintenance, its efficiency and imaginative development. In whatever occupation people have they are likely to be affected significantly by manufacturing. There is an important interrelationship between sectors. Few products go from raw material to end use without some processing. Commerce and rural and mineral producers exist to provide its inputs; commerce and consumers or users depend upon its outputs. Whole areas of the tertiary sector depend largely for their existence on the manufacturing industry. Those areas in turn make large demands on manufacturing industry for capital goods, the whole process contributing to a vibrant growing economy. Nor do the effects of a dynamic manufacturing sector stop there. Consumers benefit from the availability of high quality, technologically advanced durable goods. Our large and strongly growing building industry is dependent on the availability of a great range of high quality manufactured materials. Indirect and less qualifiable benefits permeate the whole economy. Manufacturing industry must continue to play this central role in the economy if our aspirations for economic growth through the 1970s and beyond are to be fulfilled. We are in the industrial growth and development stage in Australia today. Putting aside the current position, which is a government created aberration, we can be proud of the performance. The economy, of course, must be seen as a whole in a modern economy. The different sectors are so closely linked that we could not afford to concentrate on one sector to the exclusion of all else. 
I may say that I believe that the rural sector and the manufacturing sector must not be seen as competing; they are complementary, one to the other. If one is in trouble the other is likely to be in trouble. If they are prospering they will prosper each other. Obviously, the rural, mining and tertiary sectors will continue to play a vital part in the growth and development of the economy. But a healthy, dynamic manufacturing sector will be of central importance and the future of manufacturing industry is therefore a subject of direct relevance to all Australians. Our policy eyes must see a continued development and look beyond tomorrow and tomorrow's development. The manufacturing sector has provided much oi the impetus to economic growth in Australia during the post-war period. This is what one would expect, for Australia is a highly industrialised country by international standards. 
When we look to export performance we see an extraordinary progress by manufacturing industry. As recently as the mid-1950s we were exporting manufactured goods worth under SI 00m, or only about 6 per cent of total exports. By 1970-71 manufacturing exports had reached $856m or 20.5 per cent of the total. The trend in each recent year has been strongly upwards in both absolute and relative terms. From 1971 to 1973 it has advanced greatly in total value terms. I am glad to say that in those more recent years the return to the great rural industries of Australia has likewise grown as prices for commodities have climbed. I do not need to labour the more qualitative contributions which manufacturing industry has made to the Australian economy. It plays a key role in providing the capital equipment - the vehicles, farm machinery, business and communications equipment and all the rest that is so necessary in a modern complex economic society - without which our modern economy simply could not function. 
Manufacturing industry has had a dominant role in furthering technological progress, which is so important in spurring economic growth and improving living standards. Manufacturing industry has been in the forefront in developing Australian research and development projects and in the dissemination of overseas developed technology. We see an increasing activity in licensing overseas countries to use Australian processes which have been developed in this country and also to use inventions which have been made in this country under royalty arrangements. To ensure the continued growth of manufacturing, it is the Government's job to maintain a stable economic climate, with the economy in or near internal and external balance. It is my belief that Australia's economic future is irretrievably bound up with the future of its manufacturing industry. We have created an environment in which there has been built up over past years a large and sophisticated manufacturing sector and in which there was every reason for confidence in the future that the growth and progress of manufacturing industry would continue. At present there is not that confidence. There is confusion and it has been created by the actions of this Government over the period in which it has been in office. 
But looking further into the future, as we must, there is reason to have every confidence in a growing economy and the core role that manufacturing will have in it. It will be essential for the development of the economy and the welfare of all Australians that it should do so. Manufacturers need to feel confident that their investment and planning decisions will be able to develop in a constant environment. Unfortunately they do not have that confidence today. They cannot foresee in the future the envronment being as it is at the time they make their investment decisions. I do not mean by this that economic management should be deprived of the tools needed; that would not be in the interests of manufacturing industry itself. I mean that the choice and application of those tools must be very carefully selected. We must ensure, as a nation, that manufacturing industry is unhindered in continued, efficient development. 
What I have said or the manufacturing industry is equally true of the primary industries. In the proposal before the House there is now the opportunity, as was said by  Sir John  Crawford in referring to the matter in his report, to establish the Commission.  Sir John  gave 3 main reasons for the establishment of the Commission, and I repeat them: 
First, it can assist the Government to develop Its policies for improving the allocation of resources among industries in Australia. Second, it can, because of its independence, be expected to provide advice on these policies which Is 'disinterested'. And third, it can facilitate public scrutiny of these policies. 
The Bill before the House includes a mandatory provision as does the Tariff Board Act. The relevant section of the Bill is clause 23 (a) which provides, in the words of the Prime Minister, that 'the Government shall not take any action to provide assistance to a particular industry until it has received a report on the matter from the Commission'. The Liberal Party supports the mandatory provision and in fact it will move amendments to strengthen that provision. It is clear, however, that support for the provision is far from unanimous on the Government side of the House. In particular we know that the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  was opposed to it.  His  position is quite clear from statements that he made to this House on 28 August. In reply to the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock),  the then Minister for Secondary Industry,  Dr Cairns,  said: 
I will give the honourable member an assurance that I will do my best to keep out of the Australian law in the future any mandatory reference to the Tariff Board. If I were a betting man I would give him even money that it does not appear henceforth. 
Later in his speech he went on to say this: 
It is a statement that is backed not by my ability to win an argument but by the overwhelming logic of the case. The Tariff Board is an advisory body whose advice should be sought by the Government. There should be no mandatory requirement to refer every matter to the Tariff Board. 
That was said by the Minister for Overseas Trade in his then role as Minister for Secondary Industry on 28 August in this House. The Liberal Party supports the mandatory provision because it will ensure that all measures to assist industry are given proper considera tion. We support the mandatory provision in the hope that it will provide some check to the excesses of this socialist Government. 
The Prime Minister in his second reading speech noted 4 qualifications to the mandatory provision. The first, which is quite proper, is that the Government is not obliged to accept the advice of the Commission. We do not believe that it should be obliged; but we do believe that there should be proper examination of the issues by an independent body. The contribution to be made by the Commission will be in its published reports; it should have no executive role. The second restricts the mandatory provision to primary and secondary industry, thus excluding the tertiary sector. In time there are strong grounds for supporting the inclusion of the tertiary sector.  Sir John  Crawford supports this view in his report. There is no reason why, in time, industries such as building and construction, transport and communications, should not be included in inquiries by the Commission. The third constraint on the operation of the mandatory provision is the way in which the Bill limits the Commission's operation only to particular primary or secondary industries, but not all forms of assistance to industry. That which should be scrutinised should relate to particular industries as well as to groups of industries. There may be measures envisaged which affect a particular group or groups of industries. In that situation these groups deserve to ha"ve their cases heard - to have an opportunity to put their cases. 
The taxpayer is entitled to be protected by an objective analysis of the issues involved. Accordingly, we will be moving an amendment to the Bill to include a particular group or groups of primary or secondary industries under the mandatory provision. This will strengthen the provision; it will make it more effective. The provision is also limited to financial assistance exceeding a period of 12 months. It seems clear, however, that an emergency situation requiring urgent but temporary assistance could last for a longer period of time. Take the example of two bad production years in one of the great primary industries. Limitation of emergency assistance to one year could in such a case impose unnecessary losses and hardship. We believe that it would be appropriate to extend the period for which temporary financial assistance can be granted to 2 years. Accordingly, we will move the appropriate amendments. 
This brings me to the question of temporary assistance. The Bill provides that applications for urgent temporary assistance should be heard within the Commission. We believe that applications for urgent assistance, as at present, will be more effectively dealt with by an independent authority - a temporary assistance authority. Such an authority could give immediate consideration to such requests, enabling required action to be taken as soon as possible without disrupting the work of the Commission. Reports by such an authority could then be reviewed as soon as practicable by the Commission. It follows that the temporary advisory authority would have to conduct its inquiries against the background of the statutory responsibilities imposed upon the Commission as a whole. The Industries Assistance Commission can make a major contribution to economic policy making in Australia, particularly at a time when a government so lacking in economic expertise is in office. The Liberal Party does not oppose the second reading of this Bill. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
Clauses 1 to 8 - by leave - taken together. 

 Mr KELLY (Wakefield) &lt;5.7) - I ask the Minister for Secondary Industry  (Mr Enderby)  to look at the wording of clause 6 (2) of the Bill. It states: 
For the purposes of sub-section 4 '(3  a)  and (4) of the Superannuation Act 1922-1973 each Commissioner shall be deemed to be required, by the terms of his appointment, to give the whole of his time to the duties of his office. 
As I read that sub-clause, as a layman, it seems to be too restrictive. I would have thought that the position should be a full time one. But to ask the Commissioner to give the whole of his time seems to impose an impossible burden on him. I am not a lawyer and I know that in law perhaps things quite often do not mean what they say, but if this sub-clause does indeed mean what it says it would preclude the Commissioner from going to church or doing other things that surely he is entitled to do. So would the Minister in charge of the Bill please give me, as a layman, a legal interpretation of what is meant by 'the whole of his time'? 
asked the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
What are the mean sound levels during each hour of the day, Monday to Sunday inclusive, within (a) a quarter mile, (b) a half mile and (c) a mile radius of each of the major airports in the capital cities. 
What are the maximum sound levels during each day. 
How many people live within a mile radius of each of these airports. 
How many people work at each of these airports. 
What is the average hearing loss of airport employees compared to the rest of the community. 
What measures are taken to minimise hearing loss by airport employees. 
asked the Minister for Defence,  upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to a statement by the present Prime Minister when Leader of the Opposition, in February 1972, that the Australian Labor Party believed the Commonwealth should take a more active role in civil defence and that a Labor Government would establish a National Emergency Aid Service to replace the Directorate of Civil Defence. 
If so, what action has been taken to achieve this undertaking. 
asked the Minister for Defence,  upon notice: 
Will he supply details of all military training that has been provided in Australia for personnel from (a) Papua New Guinea, (b) Fiji, and (c) other Pacific Island nations during the last 10 years. 
What were the ranks of the officers concerned and the dates and places of their training. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
What is the name and location of rehabilitation clinics and/or centres that have been established or are planned in each State for servicing the needs of handicapped people. 
What is the purpose of each clinic. 
How many persons are currently accepted for rehabilitation assistance at the clinics that are in operation. 
Do handicapped children have access to these clinics. 
What is the age distribution of each of the persons given rehabilitation assistance or accepted for rehabilitation assistance in 1972-73, and for each age group how many successfully completed rehabilitation. 
What is the distinction between the work adjustment centre at Fairfield, Victoria and the rehabilitation clinics. 
What is the name and location of work adjustment centres that have been established or are planned in each State. 
What is the distinction between the work adjustment centre and the work preparation centre planned for mildly mentally retarded adolescents in the Sydney area. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
What is the purpose of the 3-year social welfare project in the south-west and southern agricultural region of Western Australia. 
For what purposes will the grant of $284,100 per year be given. 
To whom will the grant be advanced. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
What action has he taken to implement the recommendations of the report of the working party on homeless men and women which he received on 4 July 1973. 
Does he intend to introduce model legislative assistance in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory as he suggested on 26 February 1973. 
I give notice that at the next sitting I will move: 
That the Government no longer possesses the confidence of the House because of its mismanagement of the nation and, in particular: 
its failure to exercise proper economic management, 
its disastrous handling of the mining industry, 
its neglect of national security and defence, 
its failure to exercise influence in the maintenance of industrial stability, 
its disregard for the proper role of the States, and 
its mismanagement of the national Parliament. 
I move: 
That the Government no longer possesses the confidence of the House because of its mismanagement of the nation and, in particular: 
its failure to exercise proper economic management, 
its disastrous handling of the mining industry, 
its neglect of national security and defence, 
its failure to exercise influence in the maintenance of industrial stability, 
its disregard for the proper role of the States, and 
its mismanagement of the national Parliament. 
This socialist Government has given the Australian people 11 months of hard labour. Its achievement has been to prove itself the most incompetent government Australia has had for over 40 years. Its bungling in so many major areas has been reckless beyond reason. It has demonstrated beyond any doubt that it simply does not have the capacity to govern this country. It is chained by ideology, laced with mediocrity and sustained only by demagoguery. The public is fearful of just where this socialist Government is taking Australia. Business and industry are unable to plan for the future. Nationalisation remains a constant threat until it is taken out of the Labor Party's platform. The economy is in a shambles. Inflation has soared with no prospect of early relief. Industrial lawlessness is the rule. Australia's defence system is threatened to be reduced to a mere token gesture. Our relations with many countries have been torn by dissension and mistrust. 
Our stable and prosperous democracy has degenerated into a divided and bitterly disillusioned nation. Yet the Government merely continues along its bumbling and arrogant way, caring nothing for the welfare of the people who elected it. It consistently fails to reply to the questions being asked of it by every group in the community. Just yesterday I asked the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  a question concerning the Government's monetary policy. He refused to answer it, even though his name is Frank - poor old Frank. I asked the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  for a statement on the Government's future actions about inflation. All he did was to repeat the same old list of past measures which have been such an abysmal failure. 
This Government has been rightly referred to recently as uninitiated, inexperienced twits, by a leading member of the business community. The Government simply does not care about the astonishing damage it has done and will continue to do to Australia. It is squeezing the economy and burdening every Australian taxpayer. Collections from income tax on individuals will increase by more than $ 1,000m this financial year. With 6 million taxpayers in Australia this represents an increased income tax payment of over $160 a year for each taxpayer. Average earnings are estimated in the Budget - estimated by the Government - to increase by 13 per cent. It takes little mathematical ability to realise that the average wage earner at the end of 1973-74 will have suffered a huge price and tax increase and that he will be worse off than at the commencement of the financial year. 
This irresponsible approach is typified by the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  who is strangling the mineral and oil industries.  His  actions sum up so well what the Whitlam Government is slowly doing to Australia. Secretive, incompetent, deaf to any views but his own, he has 'plans' - in inverted commas - which are alarming, unworkable and downright dangerous for the country. He is the symbol of the socialist Government's maladministration. It is he who has the gall to describe journalists, fulfilling their responsibilities, as the apes of the" Press. The Australian economy is in tatters. Inflation is running at a staggering 14 per cent. Strikes by unions have been allowed to get completely out of hand. The people who are suffering most from these results of the Government's policies are those who can least afford it or protect themselves from it - the pensioners, the superannuitants, people living on life savings, students on scholarships and others on fixed incomes. The housewife recoils at the prices on every visit she makes to the supermarket. But she is powerless to do anything about the situation.  Her  husband demands more pay to compensate for rising prices, and the whole cycle is repeated. 
There is virtual industrial anarchy. Sydney has been plunged into chaos by the power strike in support of a 35-hour week, in which the Minister for Minerals and Energy played such a discreditable role. The recent airport stoppage, transport stoppages, garbage strikes and building bans have been imposed on the city. Honourable members opposite know all about the garbage strike. Sydney and other major centres have been hit with strikes covering everything from postal services to the meat industry. A colossal 860,000 working days were lost in the 3 months to 30 June this year, compared with 536,700 in the same period last year. The figures for the September quarter will certainly be worse. Many strikes attract little media attention simply because nowadays a strike has to be dramatic to be noticed, because it has to compete with so many others. This intolerable situation exists under a socialist Government which claims a special relationship with the trade union movement; which claims to be the friend of the workers. With friends like that this country could not afford to handle enemies. All its task forces are civilian. Its military exercises rely on phantom companies and make believe battalions. 
To compound the almost daily disasters of this socialist Government, its Ministers cannot even work in harmony with their departments or with each other. There is constant bickering, contradictory statements coming from different Ministers and obvious basic divisions within the ministerial ranks. The Prime Minister has been rebuffed and overruled by his Caucus on the referendum proposals. First it forced upon the Prime Minister a prices referendum that he did not want. His public relations team said: Well, it is like the words of that Irish song "Kathleen Mavourneen" - it may be for years and it may be for ever'. Within a week he had brought legislation for a prices referendum into this House. The Caucus refused to include incomes with the prices proposal. Then, after the Prime Minister had delivered his plea, the Caucus decided that it may as well throw in an incomes referendum for good luck. Now the unions, led by the Australian Labor Party President, have decided to oppose the incomes referendum. 
We have had the situation of the Prime Minister announcing revaluations without consulting or even informing the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns).  He has announced increases in interest rates. That was a much more powerful decision. That involved not only the Prime Minister and the Treasurer but it has the powerful economic influence of the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Barnard)  in consultation. The Prime Minister has 'been rebuffed again by Caucus on interest rates. The Minister for Minerals and Energy does not even bother to announce his policies, let alone consult his colleagues. The takeover of the North West Shelf, with its enormous implications for the taxpayers, was announced at the end of a company report and not by the Government or the Minister. 
It is totally irresponsible for a government to allow these elephantine exercises of an obsessed man like the Minister for Minerals and Energy - this sweet prince who has visions, but he does not tell his Cabinet colleagues about the visions. He has visions of a national pipeline grid, visions of a uranium enrichment plant, visions of this and visions of something else which have an ideological framework and no practical bases. One might ask: 'What is the cost?' He cannot tell us. Where are the feasibility studies which are the basis of his decisions? He has not had any. He cannot even answer a question straight in the Parliament. I asked him the cost of a national pipeline grid and we had some extraordinary answer, quite irrelevant, about the extension of the pipeline from Gidgealpa to Palm Valley. He appropriates the products - oil and gas - of the north west shelf; no price is stated. Then he announces that he will control all movements downstream. There is no pipeline downstream. Not even feasibility studies have been carried out and there is certainly no design for ships to transfer the product. All Ministers are having trouble. The Prime Minister shuffled his pack of cards a little to paper over the difficulties in his Ministry. But nobody was impressed with that, least of all the Ministers who were concerned, and those winds are still blowing around that lean-to of the Ministry. The Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  the man who virtually guaranteed industrial peace and stability under a Labor Government, appointed the former member for Sturt - stormy Normie - to be his troubleshooter. He would be at the spot before a strike solidified and then he would advise the Minister how to solve it. We have not heard of stormy Normie and the Minister has not solved a single industrial dispute. The record speaks for itself and the honourable gentleman tries to laugh it off. On 3 October- 
asked the Minister for Science, upon notice:  i(l) What will be the functions of the atmospheric base-line monitoring system which the Government has decided to establish. 
How many regional atmospheric stations will be established in Australia. 
asked the Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 718 which I asked on 31 May 1973. 
My question is directed  to  the Treasurer. Did cash subscriptions to the October loan amount to $266m? Was that amount $100m less than was raised in the July loan and more than $60m less than the cash subscriptions to the 1972 November loan? Were redemptions from the conversion loan the highest in recent history? Have the Government's financial transactions resulted in a .record $988m deficit in the September quarter of this financial year? If interest rates have peaked, as he said this morning, how does the Government intend to mop up excess liquidity in the economy? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Northern Development. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Will he provide a list of the interdepartmental committees, which have been established since 2 December 1972, of which officers of his Department are members. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. Is it the intention of the Government to take action to reduce home mortgage interest rates by 1 per cent? 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
How many child care centres are there in each State and Territory. 
How many are registered and non-subsidised in each State and Territory. 
How many are registered and subsidised by the State Government, and under what provision have these grants been made. 
How many are registered and subsidised by the Australian Government, and under what provision have these grants been made. 
asked the Minister for Labour, upon notice: 
What was the nature of each strike or dispute which has occurred since 2 December 1972, and what were the manhours lost and wages lost in each dispute. 
How long did each strike or dispute last 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
Can he say what is the average annual cost in each State, excluding Government subsidy, of education and care of a child in a pre-school centre. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
Can he say what is the average annual cost in each State, excluding Government subsidy, of full-time care in a registered child care centre if the age of the child is (a) up to 1 year, (b) between 1 year and 2 years, (c) between 2 and 3 years, and (d) between 3 and 5 years. 
asked the Minister for Educa  tion, upon notice: 
Can be say what are the current building costs in each State to establish a child care centre for (a) 30 children, (b) 40 children, (c) SO children, (d) 60 children, (e) 70 children, (f) 80 children, (g) 90 children and (h) 100 children. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
 Can he say what are the current building costs in each State to establish a pre-school centre for (a) 30 children, (b) 40 children, (c) 50 children, (d) 60 children, (e) 70 children, (f) 80 children, (g) 90 children and (h) 100 children. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
Can he say what are the current range of salaries in each State of the following staff of child care or pre-school centres: (a) trained nursing sister, (b) kindergarten teacher, (c) mothercraft nurse with and without pre-school qualifications, (d) pre-school teacher and (e) untrained assistant. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. Having regard to the answer he has just given that he would respect the States and the leaders of the Liberal 
Party more if they told him the way in which Government expenditure could be cut, will he commence by calling a conference of all the Premiers with himself to work out the ways in which the Australian Government and the State governments may reduce public expenditure and reduce the pressure of the public sector on the private sector? At the same time as this conference is held, will he also have a conference with the State Premiers about a comprehensive attack on inflation in Australia which has reached a proportion which is just not acceptable to the future development of this country? 
On 30 January 1973 at a Press conference the Prime Minister agreed to make public the membership of interdepartmental committees. In answer to a question on notice - question No. 964 - while not naming the composition, the Prime Minister did list a number of interdepartmental committees on which his Department had representation. This was confirmed subsequently in an answer to question No. 10S7. In line with those answers I have since asked all Ministers similar questions on notice. The replies so far received have refused information similar to information which the Prime Minister gave in his answers to me. Ministers have denied me access to the names of interdepartmental committees on which they are represented. Does the Prime Minister agree that it is essential for me to have this information so that I may ask further questions about the composition and function of these interdepartmental committees? Will he therefore instruct his Ministers to answer these questions on notice in the spirit of the avowed open government policy? 
We have had inflicted upon the Opposition a number of Bills which have been declared to be urgent. We understand that the Government, content in its numbers, is prepared to ride across this Parliament as though the Parliament did not exist and that all that exists is the Caucus. The Minister for Secondary Industry  (Mr Enderby)  sitting at the table has no more authority to speak for the Government as a Minister than anybody else has, because the Caucus will determine this matter. The Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  is also the father of the House and is acting like a patriarch. Whenever the Government is in trouble it puts up the Minister for Services and Property - the Minister for conservation of a Labor Government in office forever. That is what he is - the Minister for conservation. He comes up with a few smart phrases. Government supporters, orchestrated in a better way than the Sydney Symphony Orchestra, all laugh on cue and the speech that the Minister makes constantly is a speech which has been riveted in his mind by repetition. He is the greatest plagiarist. Everything that everybody has said around this place that is funny the Leader of the House picks up and claims as his own. We are just sick and tired of his stupid presentation of humour. We are here as members of a national Parliament, and as a national Parliament we should discuss this Bill and there should be no limitation of time to the discussion of this Bill. We have demonstrated today that this Bill is a pretence that it will tackle inflation. The truth is that by this Bill the people of Australia will have less consumer protection than they have today. 
The allocation of time for this Bill - 
They will laugh on cue for you, Freddie. They will laugh on cue for you every time. Your red face is indicative of your high blood pressure. You cannot take the pressure of -running this Parliament. You and your leader, the Prime Minister  .(Mr Whitlam),  sit here, fail to answer questions and go red. 
You are very sick. We understand that. The pressure on the Government is such that the front bench members have all suffered serious ill health. Some of them just cannot take the pressure. The Opposition wants to debate this Bill through. We want time to debate this Bill through, because the more time we have to debate it through the more it will be revealed as a hotch-potch of a Sill. It is a terrible piece of legislation. Only tonight there has been circulated from the Government amendments which go to the very heart of the matter. 
Oh, I am terribly sorry. I apologise. 
This Bill has been brought on for debate in this House at very short notice. It is not the first time that a Bill has been brought on for debate at short notice and it is not the first time that a Bill has been presented to the House in such poor shape. It is poorly drafted and it is a poor expression of the policy intentions of the Government. This Bill was in the Senate in the last sitting week and it was deferred. It was brought into this House, and the same reasons for deferral exist today as existed then. However, the Opposition will not take the attitude that it should refuse to discuss the Bill altogether. We do propose to discuss the 
Bill. We will state attitudes of principle and, having stated attitudes of principle, we will then deal in detail with some portions of the Bill. This Bill represents a fundamental departure from previous approaches to restrictive trade practices legislation in Australia. It seeks to replace the existing Restrictive Trade Practices Act with radical new provisions for imposing widespread prohibitions on numerous alternative forms of business practices. 
The need for strengthening the existing legislation in this area is recognised on both sides of the House. The Commissioner of Trade Practices began his annual report for the year ended 30 June 1973 with these comments: 
For 2 years, more effective trade practices legislation has been a stated objective of both sides of the Parliament. It appears to be common ground now that the Parliament should decide and lay down more .positively and comprehensively than before what the policy qf trade practices legislation is to be. 
So it is quite apparent that if there is any claim by the Government that it is the only party interested in trade practices, it is a false claim. As Leader of the Opposition, on behalf of the Opposition parties I endorse the remarks of the Commissioner of Trade Practices at the outset of his report. In contrast to the remarks of the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  and the Minister for Secondary Industry  (Mr Enderby)  in their second reading speeches, the Commissioner of Trade Practices then goes on to say: 
The current legislation, which is clearly coming towards the end of its time, has nevertheless served a valuable role. Among other things, it provided an entry into a field substantially untouched for many years, 
If I may interpolate, it was I who introduced that Bill into this House. The Commissioner continues:  it brought the problems to public and business attention, and it became a means of moving towards principle and demonstrating the need for further legislation. It was also an important vehicle for the development of constitutional law in this field and beyond it. 
The Opposition recognises this and when in government took positive steps to significantly strengthen existing legislation in a number of ways. In 1971 the then Government set up an interdepartmental committee to make a detailed examination of the legislation. Later that year as a result of the deliberations of that Government, resale price maintenance was prohibited. This was a logical progression from the existing legislation which, as the Commissioner noted, has served such a valuable role in indicating the areas in which new laws were needed. 
In May 1972, the then Attorney-General,  Senator Greenwood,  set out in a comprehensive ministerial statement the areas in which the Government intended to strengthen the Act. Four specific areas were mentioned. Firstly, it proposed a widening of the scope of the provisions dealing with monopolisation to enable monopoly conditions to be fully investigated when there was reason to believe that those conditions were not operating in the public interest; secondly, it was proposed that mergers and takeovers which were likely to reduce competition be subject to inquiry and restraint when this was desirable in the public interest; thirdly, the establishment of a monopolies commission to supplement the work of the Trade Practices Tribunal was foreshadowed; and fourthly, stronger provisions for the examination of registrable agreements and the practice of refusing to deal were proposed. 
The Commissioner was to be relieved of the necessity for consultation and he was to be able to take those matters, agreements or practices to the Tribunal without consultation so that guidelines could be established on the basis of his experience as to what practices or agreements were likely to be held against the public interest. That statement was made in May of last year in order to facilitate the examination of all the proposals by all persons concerned. In October 1972 a Bill was introduced and it was deferred to allow further public discussion after the Bill as a Bill could be examined by all parties concerned. These actions reflect the concern of the Government as it then was - the Liberal-Country Party Government - for developing strong and effective laws to deal with restrictive trade practices which are against the public interest. It is the aim of the Liberal Party to continue to do that and if that is the aim of the Government - the Australian Labor Party - we endorse its objective. 
But the way to achieve this objective is not to impose with virtually no debate sweeping prohibitions on a wide range of business practices which may often be against the public interest, but which in some circumstances may not be. This is the approach of the Bill before the House. The Government's way to achieve this objective has been to draw heavily on United States anti-trust laws. In fact, I believe that several United States anti-trust experts, including counsel from the Federal Trade Commission, took an active part in the drafting of this Bill and I must say, having read very many Bills over the years, that the standard of the drafting of this Bill seems to indicate that it was done by an American draftsman and not by our own Australian draftsmen. 
The Minister talks of the so-called urgency of the Bill which the Government cites as a necessity for hasty enactment. The Minister emphasised that the Bill has particular importance to the problems of inflation, with the implication that the presence of restrictive trade practices legislation of the type contained in this Bill would in some way magically reduce inflation in Australia overnight. That is a lot of nonsense. I agree with some of the statements made by the Minister for Secondary Industry in his second reading speer':.  He  said: 'The practices cause prices to be maintained at artificially high levels'. I agree with that. He said: 'The purpose of many  restrictive  practices is to maintain prices at levels h , .er than would otherwise prevail'. I agree with that. But the presence of restrictive practices can explain only why prices are at a particular level and why relative prices between different industries or companies in the economy are distorted. It cannot explain the acceleration in the rate of inflation, the rate at which prices  ere  increasing. There is no evidence to suggest that restrictive practices are more widespread in 1973 than they were in 1972 or before ti.e present Act was passed in 1965. In other words, the existence of restrictive trade practices cannot be invoked to explain the rate of increase in prices in 1973, which is treble the rate of 1972 and almost 5 times the rate that prices increased in the 1950s and the 1960s. 
As a corollary, it follows that urgent measures to ban restrictive practices, however necessary to achieve greater competition and efficiency, are not the appropriate short term instruments to deal with the present inflationary situation. I therefore deny that there is a great urgency to pass this legislation this week or next week on the ground that it is going to cure inflation because it will do nothing of the kind. What is more important is that a piece of legislation which is going to last for very many years should be the right legislation and should have the proper examination. If the concern of the Government is inflation, I have stated in other places and in this House in other debates what are our positive proposals in relation to inflation, and I do not propose to repeat them in this debate. The reason why we need to strengthen  the legislation in this area is to achieve the goals of greater efficiency and increased productivity which more effective competition in industry produces. If this complex legislation is dealt with hastily by this Parliament there is a very great danger that the effects on efficiency, productivity and growth will be perverse and not advantaged. The Bill is going to effect virtually every company operating in Australia and if it creates uncertainty and confusion, as I believe in its present form it will, there is every reason to believe that business efficiency could be reduced. 
The Government is asking us to consider the Bill hastily. It was introduced into the Senate on 27 September. On 24 October the Senate deferred it until the first sitting day in 1974. On the same day, 24 October, notice was given in this House and the Bill was introduced for its second reading on 25 October. If the course of action taken by the Government is intended to be a threat to us to permit the Bill to go through without proper examination, we will not respond to the threat in the way that the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  or the Minister for Secondary Industry intended us to do. Quite clearly there will need to be many amendments to this Bill to make it acceptable. We need time to formulate these amendments and to move them. If the Government has half a brain in its head it will accept most of the amendments that we will put forward because we will give the Bill detailed examination and there will not be general statements leaving it to the courts, leaving it to the tribunal or leaving it to the commission to determine a policy which should be our responsibility to determine as the legislators of this country. 
It appears that  Senator Murphy  had no consultation whatever with industry or commerce during the gestation period of this Bill. It is quite clear that  Senator Murphy  intends that there should be no consultation before the Bill is passed. Our approach to trade practices legislation has been to charge the Trade Practices Commissioner with the task of investigating agreements and determining facts based on the policy which this Parliament has determined so that the Commissioner could then refer a matter to the tribunal. The Commissioner says that this approach has been a highly useful one and he has indicated areas in which stronger laws, including the prohibition of certain activities, are needed. The approach adopted in this Bill before the 
House contrasts quite markedly with the previous approach. It prohibits a wide range of trade practices but it is simply not clear from a reading of the Bill how wide the range is. The Bill provides for some clearance or authorisation proposals in certain circumstances, but those authorisations do not cover price fixing, differential prices, monopolisation or, of course, resale price maintenance or consumer protection. The introduction of the sweeping prohibitions proposed in the Bill requires at least two conditions. It must be remembered that whatever the Minister said in his second reading speech or whatever the Bill tries to provide there are now to be trade practices of a criminal kind. To say that they are not criminal but to ascribe a penalty of $250,000 and then to say that the onus of proof will not be beyond reasonable doubt but merely on the balance of probabilities is to fiddle with words. Civil damages which may follow may be very heavy. 
The first 2 things that are needed are: Firstly, that the wording of the provisions be quite precise and well defined, both in legal terms and in terms of the types of economic activity to which it refers. Secondly, that it be established beyond doubt that the activities being prohibited are in all cases undesirable and not in the public interest. To take the second point first, there are valid arguments for extending the range of practices that are per se illegal. A great advantage of the existing system in the legislation is that it provides a continuing flow of information to enable us to make the review. The Commissioner in his last annual report said that price agreements are very unlikely to be consistent with the public interest. There are, therefore, grounds for supporting outright prohibition of horizontal price agreements. This is an area of the Bill with which we could broadly agree. It comes within clause 45 which deals with contracts, combinations and restraint of trade. But what we wish to consider is whether or not there ought to be authorisation proposals for these price fixing arrangements. It is likely that upon examination we would not think so. But we would not know until there has been time to examine them adequately. 
Another area which falls into this category may be the provisions for the protection of consumers. Broadly we agree with the proposals in the Bill for consumer protection. But I must make these points clear: Firstly, all the 
States have provision for consumer protection. They are not uniform, but all have them. We need to make sure that by passing this legislation consumer protection is not lessened rather than strengthened. As an example of that let me refer honourable members to pyramid selling. Pyramid selling takes up one clause in this Bill. In Victoria there happens to be before the State Parliament, after an exhaustive examination by the Parliament and by committees of the Parliament of the prohibition of pyramid selling, a Bill consisting of about 5 pages. Can we be sure that by adopting the procedure set out in the Bill before this House people will be better protected or worse protected from pyramid selling? The Bill proposes that State laws should continue in operation. But it does not matter what the Minister says or what is written in the Bill; section 109 of the Constitution says that where there is inconsistency between State and Federal law the Federal law shall prevail. There is no way of legislating out of that constitutional provision. Therefore it will not be the Parliament that decides whether State law prevails or Commonwealth law prevails. It will be the High Court. 
Another area in which we can agree with the Government is the prohibition of resale price maintenance. Quite clearly resale price maintenance cannot be supported. It is my view that resale price maintenance and horizontal price fixing arrangements are the 2 restrictive trade practices which contribute most to the distortion of the price pattern or lifting the level of prices. But the point we want to make is that we have not had the opportunity to give the Bill the close examination which it deserves. As an Opposition we have that duty. We have the duty to the public who will be affected for many years into the future to give it that close examination. 
The first point that I made was that the wording of the provisions should be quite precise and well defined. It appears to us that the Bill is highly deficient in this respect and that it should be greatly clarified so as not to create intolerable confusion in industry and an unworkable burden on the Commission, the Tribunal and the courts. I believe there are some provisions in the Bill which could be and should be significantly strengthened with more precise wording. It should be for this Parliament to determine the policy and not to offload the policy to the Commission, the 
Tribunal or the courts. We would put forward amendments to make it clear that we determine the policy. We are not going to adopt the American system of giving to the courts the right of legislative policy prescription. We do not believe that is proper. This Bill is a complex matter and it will take some time - certainly more than the few weeks we have had - to consider these things adequately. 
I now want to examine some portions of the legislation. Clause 45 deals with contracts, combinations or conspiracies in restraint of trade. If honourable members look at clause 45 (1) they will see that it prohibits contracts in restraint of trade. But sub-clause (2) states: 
A Corporation shall not make a contract, or engage in or be a party to a combination or conspiracy, in restraint of trade . . . 
Why the difference? It refers to a contract in one case and in the second case it refers to a contract, a combination or conspiracy. In the first case it is made unlawful. Does that mean unlawful in terms of enforcement of the contract. These are things that we do not know. Sub-clause (3) of clause 45 prohibits the limiting or discontinuing of production, manufacture or mining. It is a well established mining practice to limit the production of some of the ore out of a mine in order to give the mine a life, to allow the amortisation of the capital over a period and to avoid taxation prescriptions which are being introduced in legislation now before this House whereby companies are having taken away from them investment procedures in relation to taxation. 
There is an extraordinary provision in clause 46 of the Bill which deals with monopolisation. The Attorney-General says that having certainty is only illusionary. It is nothing of the kind. It is certainly very important that we should have it. Clause 47 deals with exclusive dealing. Clause 48 refers to resale price maintenance and, as I said, we agree with that prescription. Price discrimination is dealt with in clause 49. It is very important to look at price discrimination and see what the prescription would mean. Just let me take an example. I do not know the facts and this is. an imaginary example. But suppose General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd wants 400,000 tyres a year and it goes to, let us say, Olympic Tyre and Rubber Co. Pty Ltd and says: 'Will you contract to give us 400,000 tyres a year?' Olympic say: 'Well, what would the other companies provide them at?' General MotorsHolden's says: 'Naturally we are not going to tell you that because we want the best price we can get.' Therefore, there is no authorisation by which the Olympic Tyre Company can be permitted to do this, because the only ground on which it can do it is that it is meeting the price of a competitor. If one looks at sub-clause (4) one is likely to find that GMH cannot even go to Olympic Tyres to ask for such a price. I know that what will be said is that the company can do it provided it does not reduce competition. But how can a company, on the basis of a criminal offence - that is what it amounts to - be certain that it will not be found that it may be a reduction of competition or, in terms of the legislation, may tend to reduce competition? These are the sorts of uncertainties with which industry quite positively could not live. It would not be in the interests of the Australian consumer if business could not be done in that way. 
Clause SO deals with mergers and acquisitions. At least 2 problems are raised by clause 50, which is designed to prevent corporate acquisitions and mergers likely to have anticompetitive effects. The first is the lack of any real guidelines in the Bill or of any determination that can be made as to whether a proposed merger or acquisition is anticompetitive. The second is the administrative power to rule on proposed acquisitions and mergers, which is concentrated in the Commission, the Tribunal or the Commissioner of Trade Practices. It is quite contrary to our standard of behaviour as legislators to give that sort of control over individuals to statutory officers, whether they be judicial or quasijudicial. Together, these are likely to result in stagnation in the movement of resources and management within the economy and to insulate and entrench inefficient management, especially in the large firms. Plenty of work has been done in countries such as the United States of America, the United Kingdom and the European Common Market countries. A Bill is before the Canadian Parliament. All these things have been ignored by the Government in reaching its decision. 
Specific standards could be incorporated in the legislation, and time needs to be taken to examine it. What is a market? What is substantially to control a market'? Is a supermarket in a small suburb able substantially to control a market? Can it drive small people out of business by reducing the price and getting rid of competition? These are things that must be certain if they are to be the basis of criminal prosecution. Another major defect in clause 50 of this Bill is the power it concentrates in the Trade Practices Commission and the Tribunal to regulate mergers. Can honourable members imagine a meeting between the  Chairman  of the Industries Assistance Commission,  Mr Rattigan,  and the Commissioner of Trade Practices,  Mr Bannerman,  at which they argued about whether there should be a merger?  Mr Rattigan  would argue that there should be a merger for efficiency and  Mr Bannerman  would argue that there should not be a merger because it would eliminate competition.  Mr Rattigan  would respond by saying: That is what I want to do - eliminate competition in order to create efficiency'. There is no clear determination except within the untrammelled discretion of the Attorney-General as to whether the merger can occur. There must be a limit to the facility with which a company can go into a merger operation, because it may be breaking the law, be subject to a penalty of $250,000, be subject to all sorts of damages and be subject later on, at the whim of a court not bound by policy determinations of this Parliament, to the whole merger being disassembled. 
There are other aspects of the Commission's functions which I do not like. The Trade Practices Commission has been given a wide and active role under the provisions of the Bill. It will consider applications for clearances and proposed acquisitions, mergers and exclusive dealing arrangements. It will consider applications for authorisations over a wide range of restrictive practices. It will have a prosecutor's role for breaches of the provisions of the Bill. It will have a function as a consumer watchdog. It will have a function not only as a prosecutor but also as a body directed by the Attorney-General to fulfil certain purposes. 
I understand that  Mr R.  M. Dietrich, the general counsel to the Federal Trade Com.mision of the United States assisted in the drafting of the Bill. In the light of the fact that the Trade Practices Commission is modelled on the Federal Trade Commission, it is interesting to look briefly at the performance of that parent body of the proposed Australian body. A very well known commentator, Professor Posner of the University of Chicago, looked at reports of the Federal Trade Commission for 1924, 1949, 1960 and 1964 and the Ralph Nader report of 1969 and said: 
What is remarkable about these studies, which span a period of 45 years, is the sameness of their conclusions. To be sure, with the resurgence of the consumer movement in the 1960s, a shift in critical emphasis from the agency antitrust to its consumer protection activities becomes discernible. But the diagnosis remains the same. The Commission is rudderless; poorly managed and poorly staffed; obsessed with trivia; politicised; all in all inefficient and incompetent. And - the persistence of these criticisms would seem to indicate - largely impervious' to criticism. 
That statement was published in the University of Chicago Law Review. The Opposition recognises that there should not be unrestrained merger activities, but it refuses to accept the proposition that bigness is bad as bigness. It refuses to accept the proposition that there must not be mergers, because it believes that inefficiency should be wiped out. We should have greater productivity and greater efficiency. 
I turn now to monopolisation. There are at least 2 principal problems with clause 46. Firstly, it provides no guidelines for determining in what circumstances a company can be considered a monopolist. In the present Act a monopolist is defined as a person who controls more than one-third of a market. This test was rejected by  Senator Murphy  because 'the certainty which it appears to give is illusory*. What is certain now is that there is no certainty whatever in monopolisation, and it is no longer a matter of examining it on an administrative basis; it is on the basis of a criminal prosecution. If the courts are to be given the power to determine who a monopolist is, it is vital that the Bill include some guidelines for the determination of a monopolist. The previous Government, in its Bill, spoke of persons being in a dominant position acting in a monopolist way. We spelt out details and criteria, and it could be properly assessed by the Tribunal we set up. 
I come to clause 49, which deals with price discrimination. This is a very interesting clause. It imposes wide prohibitions on price discrimination. As in other clauses, the wording is confused and questionable. As the clause is based on the United States Robinson-Patman Act, I think it would be opportune for me to quote the relevant sections of the Neal report, which was a White House task force report on anti-trust policy and which dealt with the 
Robinson-Patman provisions concerning price discrimination. The report stated: 
Over the years, the Robinson-Patman Act has come to have unintended anticompetitive effects. The pricediscrimination prohibition has discouraged types of price differentials which might have improved competition by lessening the rigidity of oligopoly pricing or by encouraging new entry: 
In highly concentrated markets, prices may be rigid and a seller may hesitate to announce price reductions which would be met immediately by competitors, thus minimising the seller's increase in sales. But he may be prepared to make concessions to make sales to particular buyers. Where such price reductions are sporadic and not part of a systematic pattern favouring large purchasers, they may be the first step toward more general price reductions. (Extension of time granted.) 
I thank the House. The report goes on: 
A new or potential entrant to a market may find it necessary to reduce prices below those of his competitors in particular cases in order to overcome the inertia of established trade relationships. But the prospective seller may be reluctant to do so if he must make corresponding reductions to all other purchasers, and he may decide not to enter. 
In other words, it would keep the prices up instead of putting the prices down. It goes on: 
The Robinson-Patman Act has impaired competition and the development of new methods of distribution in numerous other respects: By discouraging sellers from passing on cost savings to buyers it has impaired experimentation with possibly more efficient methods of distribution integrating wholesale and retail functions; by requiring proportionally equal treatment in certain promotional practices it has discouraged experimentation with price-cutting methods which are equivalent to desirable types of price differentials; by prohibiting sellers from paying brokerage to customers or their agents it has erected an artificial protective barrier around independent brokers and inhibited integration of brokerage functions. 
The report concludes with these words: 
We conclude that the Robinson-Patman Act requires a major overhaul to make it consistent with the purposes of the anti-trust law. 
But that is what is going into this Bill. The Neal report therefore condemns the very provisions on which clause 49 of the Bill is based. How can the Government say that it wants to pass this Bill without further examination in detail? 
I have dealt with this Bill today in as adequate a fashion as possible, dealing with the principles and with only some of the details. I believe that the details I have exposed make it abundantly clear why this Bill should not be forced through this House, why this Bill ought to be subject to the closest and detailed examination, why the Opposition ought to be able to formulate a very wide range of amendments which it would be our purpose to put before the chamber. I would hope that our amendments would be accepted by the Government, because I believe that if the Government would take notice of us it would have a good Bill, whereas what it proposes now is a bad Bill. It is a bad Bill basically for these reasons: The proscriptions are based across a wide range of trade practices, whereas clearly the proper way to deal, for instance, with exclusive dealing and differential pricing is not by proscription. The Government has provided authorisations which are not broad enough and not understandable enough and which can only come into operation after the act is committed, which act attracts a penalty of $250,000 or civilian damages. Because it is a criminal procedure and because it is the courts which have to determine the policy, it is perfectly obvious that whatever the legislation states the courts will apply a standard of proof in fairness to the parties engaged which is likely to mean that many practices which ought to suffer penalty will escape penalty. 
 I may want it every way. What I want is good legislation. 
I am interested in that interjection. I think the Minister said that my Act of 1965 did nothing. The plain fact of the matter is that the gentleman who, I expect, will be appointed as the Commissioner under this Bill has in his most recent report paid a direct tribute to that legislation. I quoted it earlier in my speech. 
Let me mention the other things which it did. It established an atmosphere in which we could go ahead to have restrictive trade practices legislation in this country which will work. We are now at a stage where, if we introduce the right legislation, 'we will certainly achieve that result. If we introduce the wrong legislation, we certainly will not. Let me repeat very briefly the attitude we have on principle. The Opposition parties would support proscription of horizontal price agreements. We would want to look at whether there should be circumstances for authorisation, whereas under this Bill there is no provision for authorisation. By deliberate act there has been no consultation by the 
Government, and for lack of time there has been no consultation by us to establish that point. Secondly, we would support proscription of resale price maintenance, as the Act provides. Thirdly, we support consumer protection provisions but we want to be certain that by doing that it does not weaken the protection to the consumer, because all the States have consumer legislation and all the States have much greater experience than the Australian Government has of consumer protection. All the States have passed legislation on consumer protection and it is of no avail for the Government, recognising as it does that the State legislation is probably better, to say that it will let the State legislation remain, because as my colleagues of the law in this House know, section 109 will determine that question. It will be interpreted by the High Court, and the attempted preservation of it is not to be relied upon. 
Fourthly, on issues such as differential pricing and exclusive dealing we feel that it is proper to have authorisations which would permit a practice if it can be shown to be in the interests of the Australian consumers. As I have said, the Neal Report, talking of the Robinson-Patman Act, which is the parent of the provision in this Bill, states that it is hopeless and that it has produced anti-competitive effects against the interests of the consumer. We are asked now to pass that into the legislation of our Parliament, having been identified as being bad. We need time to look at that, and we would be very anxious to examine the Neal report and assist the Government with putting in a proper provision in relation to it. We have approached this Bill today on this basis. We will not respond to the threat that if we do not pass it now and be good little boys the Government will tell the Australian public about us and about how bad we are. We will explain to the Australian public what our attitudes are. We will not be subject to that threat and allow this Bill to go through with all the faults which demonstrably it has not only in policy, not only in the dereliction of giving authority to outside people to determine policy but in the sheer drafting of it, which creates confusion and uncertainty. We will not do that. Therefore what we will do today is explain, as I have, our general approach in principle. I have established beyond a shadow of a doubt that we are anxious to have restrictive trade practices legislation that works, but we need time to formulate the amendments which will make this Bill a better Bill. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
Will he provide a list of the interdepartmental committees, which have been established since 2 
December 1972, of which officers of his Department are members. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation, upon notice: 
Has the Minister given consideration to introducing a system whereby ex-servicemen who apply for a war pension and have that claim rejected by the Repatriation Department should have available to them the reasons for their rejection. 
If so, what was the result of that consideration. 
If not, will the Minister give consideration to the matter. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Will he provide a list of persons who have been engaged by the Government to serve as consultants or advisers to Ministers or their Departments on a non-career short-term basis since 2 December 1972. 
Under what sections of the Public Service Act are each of these persons employed. 
What was the date of their appointment and, where applicable, the date of termination of their engagement. 
What were the terms of their employment including remuneration payable, length of employment, etc. 
For what purposes were they appointed. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
What centres are at present under consideration by the Cities Commission as centres for regional development and what is their present and projected population maximum? 
asked the Minister represent ing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Did the Minister's predecessor in answer to question No. 552 (Hansard, 28 August 1973, page 501) indicate that the number of Aborigines living in urban Sydney is 5,257. 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a recent report to the Minister for Youth and Community Services in New South Wales which indicates that there are approximately 9,000 people who identify themselves as Aborigines resident in the Sydney metropolitan area. 
If the position is as stated, can the Minister identify the reason for the differences between these figures. 
asked the Minister representing the Special Minister of State, upon notice: 
Will the Minister provide a list of the interdepartmental committees, which have been established since 2 December 1972, of which officers of the Department of the Special Minister of State are members. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
When the Acting Treasurer announced the rates for the Commonwealth Cash and Conversion Loan on 4 October 1973, were there any semi-governmental or local government loans outstanding; if so what were they. 
At what rates were these loans being raised, and were these based on rates approved by the Loan Council. 
Have these loans been underwritten. 
What level of subscription was achieved in the loans and was this less than the mean level achieved in the last 10 years. 
Is there serious concern by underwriters, semigovernment and local government authorities about the capacity to raise new public loans. 
What undertakings will the Government give to reassure (a) underwriters and (b) semi-government and local government authorities. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
What were the results of the survey by the Bureau of Transport Economics into consumer preferences of commuters in Brisbane's suburban railway carriages. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
With reference to his answer to question No. 549 (Hansard, 22 August 1973, page 268), in which he indicated that studies would be made of urban, interurban and regional passenger and freight movements, will he indicate (a) what studies have now been commenced, (b) the terms of reference of such studies and (c) the extent to which the States are involved in the studies and the numbers of their staff taking part. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
Does he intend carrying out a survey on urban renewal projects, including the nature of capital funding of such projects, being undertaken by (a) State Governments, (b) local governments, (c) private enterprises and (d) any of the foregoing in conjoint cooperation. 
If so, when will this be done and how long is it expected to take. 
asked the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Will he provide a list of the inter-departmental committees, which have been established since 2 December 1972, of which officers of his Department are members. 
asked the Minister for the Environment and Conservation, upon notice: 
Will he provide a list of the interdepartmental committees, which have been established since 2 December 1972, of which officers of his Department are members. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Did he indicate on 30 January 1973 that there can be staff savings in the Department of Immigration to ease the growth in the Public Service. 
If so, what savings did he have in mind and how many positions are involved. 
What action has been taken to effect such savings. 
When will, or when were, these savings introduced. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Science and Minister for External Territories who represents the Minister for the Media in this House. He will recognise these words: In the presentation of news, comment and current affairs the public interest is best served by the expression of a plurality of viewpoints throughout the media. Adherence to this principle will be taken into account in the consideration of applications for renewal of licences. I ask the Minister whether the radio stations 2KY and 2HD, which are managed by the Australian Labor Party, have broadcast policy speeches and advertisements for any political party other than the Labor Party during the past New South Wales election campaign. Will the Minister table for the information of the House details of time made available to political parties by 2KY, 2HD, 3KZ and 4KQ over the last 10 years? 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
With reference to his answer to question No. 707 (Hansard, 25 September 1973, page 1502), why cannot he make available the names of the 147 companies in the manufacturing, electricity, gas and water group, and 112 in the wholesale and retail industry, and their actual turnover in each case for 1971-72, which are subject to the Prices Justification Act. 
asked the Minister for Civil 
Aviation, upon notice: 
Will he provide a list of the interdepartmental committees, which have been established since 2 December 1972, of which officers of his Department are members. 
My question is addressed to the Treasurer. In view of the adverse effects of high interest rates on the community in general, and on home owners and home seekers in particular, when will the Government take action to reduce interest rates? 
My question is addressed to the Treasurer. I refer to the answer he just gave to a question I asked. I ask him now: Who has the matter under consideration - what Ministers, Cabinet committee or departments? Will he state clearly and precisely the criteria which they are examining which will lead them to any conclusion about lowering interest rates? 
'by leave - This statement by the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  comes at a most extraordinary time. The statement, dealing with a major issue of industrial relations, is made without notice to us under the pretext of providing additional information to an answer to a question in the House. Quite clearly it was a question which was, in our terms, a Dorothy Dixer. 
 It was made on the eve of the elections in New South Wales, true. 
 Do be quiet, you silly 'boy. More significantly, the statement has been made on the first sitting day after the departure from Australia of the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions.  Mr Hawke  is not only the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions but also the  President  of the Australian Labor Party. This is an extraordinary time for the Minister to introduce a statement of this kind. To produce it in the way in which it has been produced flies in the face of all the traditions of this Parliament. One would think that the Minister was engaged in some clandestine operation, because he was so reluctant to allow the statement to be seen before he could stand up, in his own inimitable way, and tell us What was contained in it - suitably interlaced with comment. 
I think it is worth setting a background to this matter before I deal with the statement. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  when he was Leader of the Opposition, said: There will be less industrial disputes under us.' That statement was made on a program called 'A Current Affair'. If there were to be 'A Current Affair' today, certainly those words would not be used. What the Prime Minister would say today is: 'What I hoped for and what I said is a lot of nonsense.' Last year he said that there would he less industrial disturbance. This year the truth is that the Australian Labor Party, which claimed there would be less industrial disturbance when it was in government because it had a special arrangement with the trade unions, has been completely incapable of delivering that promise to the Australian people. It is the same with so many of its promises. The Australian Labor Party is incapable of delivering the promises. The Prime Minister's statement was supported by the Minister for Labour. 
 The Minister for Labour supported the statement of the Prime Minister - who was then the Leader of the Opposition - that there would be more industrial peace in Australia under a Labor Government. We have the Commonwealth Statistician's figures for the first 6 months of this year only. In the first 6 months of the year the time lost by strikes was 1.4 million man-days. The amount of wages lost by workers on strike increased from $l'3m to $23m. That was only until the end of June. We all know that since the end of June- for July, August, September, October and this month - the number of strikes has been quite remarkable. Australia today is facing chaotic industrial relations. If it goes on as it is, it will make the present inflationary situation so much worse that the whole future of this country will be put in jeopardy. 
The Minister for Labour spoke not in terms of meeting today's problems but in terms of calling a conference in the future to consider the Canadian legislation. I will come shortly to the particular principles that he set out. I do not want to discourage him from examining the matter by calling the parties together. What I want to do is nail the nonsense put forward by the Minister, that in some way this step will do something about the present industrial turmoil in Australia. It will do nothing of the kind. We have been warned that from midnight tomorrow there will be a national building strike. We do not know how long that will last. We hope that it will not eventuate, but all the signs are there that it will spread throughout Australia. Millions of dollars in buildings will lie idle while people are paying interest rates of 10 per cent or 12 per cent. It was this Government that lifted interest rates. 
 This is the low interest party. Honourable members opposite are a mob of heretics who spent their lives talking about low interest rates and now, within 10 months of coming into office, they have increased the long term bond rate by 2 per cent. The Government promised the Public Service unions that it would extend long service leave to public servants in April. The Minister for Labor has repudiated that statement. Whether he is right or wrong, the fact is that he made the original promise. This action is about to bring on industrial disputation and strikes. The Minister promised a 35-hour week. He retreated from that and left his Prime Minister floundering. Everybody knows that it is not appropriate now to have a 35-hour week. Honourable members opposite keep quiet about it because they know that the people of Australia agree with us on this side of the House that it is not appropriate to introduce a 35-hour week now. 
In Victoria there is a strike of power workers, with 150 men on strike. The net result is that thousands of people have been stood down. There is hardly a plant in Victoria today that is not working on alternate days simply because of the power strike. Recently there was the national rail strike. There was a recent strike in New South Wales over the 35-hour week, in which the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  played such a discreditable part for himself and for this Government. In New South Wales green bans have been imposed by the Builders Labourers Federation, and 10,000 people have been stood down as a result of the bans. There are bodies whose responsibility is to decide whether permits for buildings will be issued, it is not a job for any individual union to do that. 
The Minister for the Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass)  made a magnificent comment. I do not know for whom he was speaking but presumably it was for the Minister for Labour and the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly),  who is responsible for electoral affairs. The Minister for the Environ ment and Conservation is reported as saying: We middle class trendy intellectual environmentalists ', Just have a look at the trendy middle class intellectuals. How trendy they are! They are middle class, yes, with all the limitations of thought processes they would attribute to the middle class. 
I thought the Minister wanted to belong to it. He has been trying to dodge being called a socialist, yet his Party's policy stands for socialism. What is happening in Australia today is that these trendies like the Minister for the Environment and Conservation and the 2 Ministers at the table - the Minister for Labour and the Minister for Services and Property - have turned Australia into a place governed by white collar socialists. Give me a blue collar socialist any day. These white collar socialists no longer represent the class they came here to represent. They have drifted away. There is not a union meeting which the Minister for Labour could address which would welcome him, because everything he says is totally contradictory to what they stand for. Now he has to find 'trendy middle class intellectuals' in order to obtain some support for his proposals. I think it is a disgraceful thing for the Minister for the Environment and Conservation to allege that anybody who supports conservation is a middle class trendy intellectual. Such supporters are nothing of the kind. 
The green ban strikes have been welcomed by the Minister for the Environment and Conservation. The Minister for Labour has not said a word about them. They are his responsibility, but the Minister for the Environment and Conservation speaks about them. On every other political issue that arises it is not the Minister for Labour who speaks but one of his colleagues. It is obvious from the whole range of strikes that are in existence today that the Labor Government knew that it could not deliver the goods it offered last year when in Opposition. The Government has failed. Why is the Labor Government's standing at such low ebb? Because all of its promises have failed. 
A question was asked of the Minister for Labour today about the call by  Mr Hamer,  the Premier of Victoria, for- a national con.ference. The Minister for Labour said that he would deal with the matter by way of a statement after question time. Iri fact, his statement bears very little relation to the question but it does have a very real relation to what  Mr Hamer  called for.  Mr Hamer  sent a telegram to the Prime Minister in which he said: 
Where was stormy Normie? Why can he not convene the conference if the Minister for Labour is unwilling to do so?  Mr Hamer  said that industrial turmoil was tearing at the heart of the nation's industrial and commercial life. That is certainly a true statement which would not be denied by the Minister for Labour or any of his supporters, would be supporters or one time supporters who sit behind him in the Parliament.  Mr Hamer  went on to say that Australia needed to know what action its Federal Government intended to take to uphold conciliation and arbitration - a vital institution since Federation. Is there anybody in this House who denies that statement? If you will bear with me,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I invite those who sit on the Government side of the chamber to say, by way of interjection, whether they disagree with that statement by  Mr Hamer. 
asked the Minister for Services and Property, upon notice: 
Will he provide a list of the interdepartmental committees, which have been established since 2 December 1972, of which officers of his Department are members. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Did he indicate on 15 July 1973 that a reduction in public transport fares would induce people to use public transport in preference to private cars; if so, on what basis was this assertion made. 
Did he also indicate on 15 July 1973 that it would be worthwhile to look at the free fare travel concept in Australia and that he was fair dinkum about this; if so, what would be the cost. 
Has he had cross-elasticity studies undertaken, or are results of such studies in Australia available, which would indicate the response of public transport travel demand to changes in systems and the extent of diversion from private vehicle travel that would follow fare reduction and/or service improvement. 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
Will he provide a list of the interdepartmental committees which have been established since 2 December 1972 of which officers of his Department are members. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Labour. Did the Minister say: 'Industrial unrest cannot be solved by union leaders, employers and politicians sitting around a table of champagne and cigars, making grand and meaningless declarations and gestures on labour relations'? 
No, it was not when we were in government. Was that statement made earlier this week - on 9 November? Will the Minister for Labour cease grandstanding about . a long term parallel system for the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and get back to the gut issue which is that industrial strikes are tearing this economy to pieces and robbing the people in Australia of the services they are entitled to have? 
I ask leave to incorporate in Hansard a document entitled 'Media Statement by Minister for Labour Embargoed until 7 p.m. Eastern Standard Time, 9 November 1973'. 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
How many assisted passages have been granted to coloured migrants since December 1972. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Will he provide a list of the interdepartmental committees, which have been established since 2 December 1972, of which officers of his Department are members. 
asked the Minister for Urban  and Regional Development, upon notice: 
Will he provide a list of the interdepartmental committees which have been established since 2 December 1972, of which officers of his Department are members. 
asked the Minister for Minerals  and Energy, upon notice: 
Will he provide a list of the interdepartmental committees, which have been established since  2  December 1972, of which officers of bis Department are members. 
 My question is directed to the Prime Minister. Yesterday at his Press conference he was asked whether a consolidated list of interdepartmental committees had been prepared and given to him. In answer he said that he had forgotten. I ask him now: Has a consolidated list of interdepartmental committees been prepared? If so, will he table that list? If it has not been prepared, will he give an instruction that it should be prepared and give an undertaking that he will table such a consolidated list of interdepartmental committees? 
 I ask leave to make a short statement. 
The Opposition parties welcome the statement made by the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart).  I am glad that he has seen fit to congratulate the Australian team. I watched the match last night. I had red eyes sitting up watching it, as I am sure many honourable members did. I had not realised that I would be so excited? as I was when Jimmy Mackay kicked that ball into - as the players would look at it - the top left hand corner of the goal. He did not give the Korean goalkeeper the slightest chance of stopping it. I had not realised how excited you could be about a soccer match. I have never felt the slightest sense of excitement about a soccer match before. I have had plenty of excitement at the Melbourne Cricket Ground at a grand final when over 100,000 people have been there. That is when you really get a sense of excitement. 
Sitting there last night and seeing that goal scored on television I realised that the Australian team is going off to West Germany. 1 understand that matches will be played in several West German towns and that the 16 elite soccer teams of the world will be there. Many forecasts have been made that in the future Australia will find that its national game is soccer - not the rugby code which the Minister for Tourism and Recreation played or the Australian rules game which I played. I still believe that Australian rules is the greatest spectacle sport, although I regard rugby, which I played, as a great team game. Quite clearly soccer is a great international game. The Minister and I, and every honourable member can think of sportsmen who played rugby or Australian rules football and who, if they had played soccer all their lives would have raised the quality of Australian soccer to such an extent that we would be sending an Australian team to West Germany confident that it would win the World Cup. I think it is true to say that the soccer administration does not expect Australia to win the World CUP. However, I am confident that the Australian team - it is a totally Australian team, not a multi-racial team as the Minister said, although its members may have different origins - will win one or two games and perhaps draw a couple of others. 
As my colleague said, they will know that they have been playing. Whatever the outcome, what was reported to have been said in South Korea will never be said here - that if the team did not win its members need not come home. We will give the Australian team a warm welcome when it returns from West Germany, whether or not it wins games. I thank the Minister for making his statement and for giving me the opportunity to join with him. 
 When one picks up this Bill and reads the long title of it, one immediately understands the way in which the Labor Government is going about its business. It has deliberately chosen terms which are designed to mislead the electors. It has deliberately chosen terms which put the rosiest possible complexion on the proposal for the amendment of the Constitution. The title of the Bill states that it is a Bill for an Act to alter the Constitution so as to ensure that Senate elections are held at the same time as House of Representatives elections. That sounds very attractive to the person who reads it and says: "Yes, I would like to have them held together'. The Government has refused to give us adequate time in which to explain what lies behind this Bill, lt has refused to give us time in Committee to move amendments to this Bill, and particularly to move an amendment to the title, because it is the title that the elector will see when he goes to the ballot box to mark his ballot paper. It would have been more honest for the Government to have titled this Bill 'a Bill for an Act to alter the Constitution so as to provide that the term of office of a senator shall be for 2 terms of the House of Representatives', because that is what the Bill is designed to do. 
The proposal contained in the long title is a fraud. A constitutional referendum is not needed to ensure simultaneous elections. All that is required is for the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and his Government to have the courage to have a House of Representatives election. All they need is the courage to go to the people. There must be an election for half the Senate in the first half of next year. Let the Government have a House of Representatives election at that time, and then there will be simultaneous elections for the Senate and the House of Representatives. There is absolutely no need for a referendum to achieve that purpose. Therefore, in view of the way I correctly described the long title, the long title which will be put to the Australian people on the ballot paper is a fraud. 
We will have 15 minutes for the Committee stage. In the Committee stage we will move an amendment. We will not even have the opportunity to explain our case. The 15 minutes for the Committee stage will include the time taken in division. In fact, there are 5 clauses to the Bill. The honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  - he is now in the chair as the  Deputy Speaker  - who fancies himself as pushing the present  Speaker  out of that position on his performance - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER .(Mr Scholes)Order! The Leader of the Opposition may make any point he wishes in debate, but I suggest, that he not detract from the dignity of this House by making the type of allegation he just made against the occupant of the chair, whoever he happens to be. I suggest that he should apologise to the House for the remarks he made about the Chair. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  you chose to participate in this debate and you - 
 I want to move an amendment to the long title of the Bill. At present, the long title reads: 
A Bill for an Act to alter the Constitution so as to ensure that Senate Elections are held at the same time as House of Representatives Elections. 
Of course, the fact is that that is not the purpose of the Bill. It may be an incidental result of the Bill, but it is not the purpose of the Bill. Clause 4 of the Bill proposes that the Constitution be altered by omitting sections 12 and 13 and substituting new sections 12 and 13. The existing section 12 of the Constitution provides: 
The Governor of any State may causerights to be issued . . . 
The existing section 13 of the Constitution provides that senators shall hold their offices for 6 years. The proposed new section 13 will alter that provision and the senators no longer will hold office for 6 years; they will hold office for the period of 2 Houses of Representatives. As the long title of the Bill is the question that will be put to the public, it is absolutely imperative that the question on the ballot paper on which the electors will be asked to express a yes or no view be actually the question involved in the Bill. I implore the Government that, if it is to be taken seriously in its wish to alter the Constitution for the good of the Australian people and not for the good of the 
Australian Labor Party, it should put the question in its proper form. I therefore move: 
In the Title, omit all words after 'Constitution', substitute the words 'to provide that the term of service of a  Senator shall  expire upon the expiry or dissolution of the second House of Representatives to expire or be dissolved after he was chosen, or upon an earlier dissolution of the Senate'. 
I heard an interjection to the effect that it is a bright amendment. It appears to me that the interceptor has not read the Bill. 
I doubt whether there are too many on the Government side who have read the Bill. If honourable members opposite have not read the Bill, I will refer them to the words I propose to omit. I am referring to clause 4 of the Bill, which proposes to substitute a new section 13 in the Constitution. Although the clause is too long for me to read out, it can be seen quite clearly I am sure that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  who is now sitting at the table will agree with me - that the amendment to section 13 of the Constitution which will result if this Bill is approved will provide that senators shall hold office for a term of service which will expire upon the expiry or dissolution of the second House of Representatives to expire or be dissolved after he was chosen'. For these reasons, I think that in all honesty that ought to be the long title of the Bill so that the people will have before them the question which is really involved and not a spurious question. 
 Mr Speaker,  I now speak to the motion for the adjournment of the House. It may be that you would be inclined to rule me out of order for I am going to refer to a debate that has just taken place. I do it in a spirit of making this Parliament appear to be what it ought to be and what, given the opportunity, it is and will be. I believe that tonight an error was made. I believe that it was an error of procedure. But whether it was an error for whatever cause- 
Oppostion members - Oh! 
I believe an error was made and in the shortest compass I will say what it was. I heard the  Clerk  read the Constitution Alteration (Simultaneous Elections) Bill the third time. My understanding is that that having been done, the procedure on the Bill was at an end. When you,  Mr Speaker,  called for a division because, as you put it, it was desirable that an absolute majority should be recorded, that was the point at which the Opposition was saying: 'What is the authority for calling for that division?' That is what caused all the dissention tonight. We have had that dissention and, if I might say so, I believe that the Opposition acted properly. I think that at all times it was trying to make this point. It has taken until now for me to get the call to make this clear. Because I believe in what I do and because I heard what I heard, in my opinion it must be accepted by this House that there is a real doubt as to whether the constitutional provisions have been satisfied for this question to be put to the people. It is no part of the wish of the Opposition to take advantage of any technical breach and because there is no desire on our part to do that, we will oppose the referendum as vehemently as we have. But we do not want this technical error - as I consider it to be - to result in the raising of any questions as to the validity of the legislation. What I wish to say is that the Opposition will give leave to the Government to re-commit the Bill in order simply to take the third reading and to eliminate any question of doubt as to the validity of the matter. If pride were dropped by the Government - there is no doubt that people sitting on this side of the House heard the  Clerk  read the Bill a third time. 
Now please- 

 - Mr Speaker, I will not be put off by the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron).  The fact is that in reality the simplest course to take is to re-commit this matter for the third reading and to put the matter beyond all doubt. There could then be no doubt if it were re-committed by the will of the House. I have no doubt that the Government can assemble its absolute majority. It would be counted and it would satisfy the con stitutional requirement. I make that clear statement. 
I think it would be necessary to look at the Standing Orders if this course were adopted because the Bill was under guillotine and the time for the guillotine having passed, I believe that there would have to be a lifting of the guillotine in order to have the re-commital We will co-operate in every way necessary for this purpose. If it is the wish of the Government not to proceed with this course but to maintain that we were taking a point of order which is not the point of order we were taking at all - if the Government persists in doing that - there is nothing I can do about it. But it will remain forever in doubt, not only in relation to this Bill but also in relation to every Bill that passes this House, whether or not when the  Clerk  reads the Bill a third time, when he actually utters the form of words for the third reading, the Bill has actually passed through this House. I have been in this House for a number of years and I know it has always been the crucial point in the passing of a Bill when the  Clerk  reads it a third time. Now that the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  has moved as he has, and all of us on this side of the House clearly heard the words, I hope that the course I suggest will be taken. Whatever is necessary for that purpose, whether it be done tonight or tomorrow morning, there will be total co-operation from the Opposition. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Are any studies being undertaken by his Department concerning the provision of public transport systems suitable for the specific needs of the handicapped and the aged, such as low-fare taxi services or mobile/flexible destination mini-buses. 
If not, will he authorise his Department to undertake studies to establish the need for such specialised services and the desirability and cost of their introduction. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. On 27 September in reply to a question which I had put on the notice paper the Prime Minister listed the interdepartmental committees on which were represented the 2 departments for which he was responsible at the time - that is, the Department of Foreign Affairs and the Prime Minister's Department. His Ministers have since refused to answer similar questions with respect to their departments despite his statement in this House on 7 November in which he said, in part: 
It is only by knowing what departments are represented on committees which are considering certain subjects that the public and members of Parliament, above all, can ascertain what aspects a government considers relevant to the consideration of those matters which have been entrusted to the committees. That is my view .... I expect that Ministers will answer in the spirit of the answers which I have given to questions. I am not aware that they have not done so. I expect them to do so. I will see that they do so. 
Will he give the appropriate instruction to his Ministers based on his clear assurance of 7 November, that they are to provide lists of interdepartmental committees in which their departments are involved? 
I intend to move the amendment which has been circulated in my name. It relates to the long title to the Bill, which reads: 
To alter the Constitution so as to ensure that the Members of the House of Representatives and of the Parliaments of the States are chosen directly- 
To that point I agree that that is a description of this Bill- and democratically by the People. 
I do not believe that the words 'and democratically' should be included in the long title because they carry a very clear inference that the elections until now have not been carried out democratically. A curious result of this is that the Government is alleging that it was not democratically elected and that by the amendment of the Constitution there will be henceforth democratic elections. Quite clearly those words have been chosen because they are words which will appeal to members of the public when they come along to vote. They are not in fact appropriate words because they are argumentative. In a referendum, those in favour of the referendum can put their case and those against it can put their case, and in that putting together of the cases all the argument can be put. Clearly there ought not to be words of argument in the title itself. Therefore I move: 
In the Title, omit the words 'and democratically by the People', substitute the words 'by the People and that the criterion for determining the size of an electoral division shall be the number of the people within it'. 
If the amendment were carried the long title would then read: 
To alter the Constitution so as to ensure that the Members of the House of Representatives and of the Parliaments of the States are chosen directly by the People . . . 
That would be a fair description of what the Bill proposes, subject to the additional words which deal with the other major aim of the Bill, that is, the substitution of the criterion of apportionment of electorates by population as distinct from electors. At present the apportionment is all on the basis of the number of electors. The Bill proposes that it be on the basis of the number of people. That would include children, those who have not bothered to enrol and, of course, those who do not have Australian citizenship. I have already explained the differences that this would make and I will not repeat my arguments on this occasion. But I do say that the words 'by the People and that the criterion for determining the size of an electoral division shall be the number of the people within it' should be substituted for the words 'and democratically by the People'. If my amendment were carried the question that would be put to the public in the referendum - if this proposition is accepted by both chambers or if it comes back to this chamber and is accepted the second time - would read: 
To alter the Constitution so as to ensure that the Members of the House of Representatives and of the Parliaments of the States are chosen directly by the People and that the criterion for determining the size of an electoral division shall be the number of the people within it. 
I think that should be agreed to by the Government. It certainly represents a much fairer description of the purpose of the Bill than do the present words. The words 'and democratically' are emotive, highly argumentative and should be eliminated if there is to be a fair referendum. 
This Bill has 7 clauses and as a result, if the referendum is put, what will be put to the public is an acceptance of the entire 7 clauses. The whole Bill goes together. There is no part of the Bill that can be taken separately. I think it is important to make that point. The first clause merely gives the short title. The second clause provides that the Bill shall come into operation on 1 July 1976. Clause 3 provides for the deletion of section 25 from the Constitution. I wish to make it clear that we on the Opposition side would support the deletion of section 25 from the Constitution, but that cannot be done separately. The whole of the Bill stands together. Section 25 of the Constitution reads: 
For the purposes of the last section, if by the law of any State all persons of any race are disqualified from voting at elections for the more numerous House of the Parliament of the State, then, in reckoning the number of the people of the State or of the Commonwealth, persons of that race resident in that State shall not be counted. 
I think this is the sort of thing which historically went into the Constitution or legislation and which progressively ought to be taken out because of its radical overtones. So I think that can be put aside. 
Clause 4 of the Bill deals specifically with the Commonwealth Parliament. It is a most remarkable clause in that it proposes that there shall be added certain words after section 29 of the Constitution. I will not read the whole of that section. I will read just the significant words which are the opening words. It reads: 
Until the Parliament of the Commonwealth otherwise provides, the Parliament of any State may make laws for determining the divisions . . . 
The fundamental point is that the Constitution gives to this Parliament the right to provide for the determining of divisions in each State for the House of Representatives. This power is already available. Everybody must wonder, upon looking at that section, why it is necessary to amend the Constitution to give the Parliament power to do something which it now possesses power to do. It has always possessed that power. We have the power in this Parliament. There could be legislation introduced, as indeed there was earlier this year, to deal with the question of determining the divisions for the House of Representatives. We now have a proposal to add certain words to that section which, if adopted, will give a new power. If the proposed new power is examined according to the rules of interpretation it will be seen that it is a lesser power than the power that already exists because the present power is totally untrammelled and unqualified. This Bill proposes to add to section 29 of the Constitution these remarkable words: 
The numbers ascertained in respect of the several divisions of a State by dividing the number of people- 
Please mark the words, 'the number of people'-  in each division by the number of members to be chosen for the division shall be, as nearly as practicable, the same.' 
It therefore involves 2 propositions. The first is to make a substitution in the present legislation - not the Constitution - pursuant to the Constitution which now provides that the division into electorates shall be on the basis of electors. This clause proposes a constitutional provision to make it 'people' instead of 'electors'. There is a very big difference between electors and people. Electors are those who are qualified to be enrolled and to vote. People includes everybody who lives in Australia - those who are not yet naturalised, those who are not yet 1 8 years of age and those who for any reason have not put their names on the electoral roll even though it is an offence not to do so. So the proposed change is very significant. Yet there is no absence of power in this Parliament to introduce legislation to do exactly the same thing which this Bill proposes. There is no want of power at all. Yet we are going through this facade of a referendum to give us power to do something we already possess power to do. 
And it is very expensive, as I am reminded by my friend and colleague. The second proposition is that all those electorates should be as nearly as practicable the same. Let me examine the consequences if this clause were passed. Firstly, it would take away forever the power to divide on the basis of electors and it would require it always to be on the basis of people. It needs to be examined in demographic terms to ascertain just what the consequences are. Everybody will know that within a metropolitan area there will be some suburbs which are peopled by elderly people. Twenty or thirty years ago those people were young married couples with a family. Today they still live in the same house but their children have grown up and have gone off to new suburbs. In those new suburbs there are young families with three, four or five children. The population in the newer suburbs will be higher than it is in those areas which are now peopled largely by those in middle age. If I may take an example, in my electorate, the area of Glen Waverley is a young area with a higher population than, for instance, Caulfield or Malvern which have low populations. What we do now is to distribute electoral boundaries on the basis of the number of electors because we believe that is the proper and democratic way to do it. There are other demographic areas such as Carlton and Richmond where there is a great number of migrants who are not yet naturalised and therefore cannot be placed on the roll. Those areas have a very high population but a relatively low number of electors. 
In regard to rural areas, we all know that it is the purpose, I think, of both Parties to try to achieve decentralisation in order to provide employment opportunities for young people living in country areas who are now faced with either unemployment because of structural unemployment or the necessity to go to the city. It is a tragedy but it is happening. Therefore in the rural areas the ratio of electors to population is more nearly in balance than it is say in Carlton, Richmond or Redfern. 
Let me illustrate the consequences of this proposal by which the Government seeks to make the number of electors in each electorate as nearly as practicable the same. If this is done on a population basis, it may be possible to have numbers of electors as nearly as practicable the same but enormous differences will exist in the number of persons in the electorates. The value of an elector's vote will vary greatly depending on which suburb he lives in or whether he lives in the city or in the country. That is totally the reverse of the proposition which is constantly being put by the Government and the proposition which was put in the Electoral Bill earlier this year. It is either a giant somersault or a sheer failure by the Government to be able to apply a logical mind to legislative proposals. 
Let us examine what would happen under these terms. There would be vast differences in the number of electors in electorates. If the number of electors in each electorate must be as nearly as practicable the same, there can be no legislative capacity to provide that the size of an electorate will depend upon difficulties of communication, distance, community of interest and so on. If one adds the fact that the Government does not have the power to do that to the proposal for distribution according to the number of people in an electorate, one doubles the problem. The divergence is made even greater. The result can be seen by taking as an example the electorate of Darling where the population more equates the number of electors. In that case, the honourable member for Darling  (Mr Fitzpatrick)  would represent not merely what is known now as Darling; his electorate would extend into the electorate of Riverina. He would have an enormous electorate. One can imagine haw large the electorates of the honourable members for Leichhardt  (Mr Fulton)  and Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  will be. 
If we look at the electorate of Kalgoorlie, which I understand covers approximately three-quarters of the whole land mass of Western Australia, and compare the relative population of that electorate to electors, and if we eliminate any possibility of provision for distance, difficulty of communication, community of interest and so on, the electorate of Karlgoorlie will end up covering about seven-eighths of the land mass of Western Australia. The 2 electorates of Kennedy and Leichhardt would probably cover more than 50 per cent of the land mass of Queensland. My friend, the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  represents already a large part of South Australia. If the present criteria were removed or were enforced in terms of a constitutional amendment, the honourable member for Wakefield would represent about threequarters of the land mass of South Australia. 
Eccles would not like that. Wait till Eccles hears about that. The Government is trying to hoodwink the people of Australia into unknowingly making this proposal a constitutional requirement when the Parliament, on examination of all the concepts, refused to accept it. 
I refer next to clause 5 of the Bill - it is another remarkable clause - which seeks to add certain words to section 30 of the Constitution. I shall read the power that is given to this Parliament under section 30 of the Constitution. That power is untrammelled arid unqualified. Section 30 states in part: 
Until the Parliament otherwise provides, the qualification of electors of members of the House of Representatives shall be in each State that which is prescribed by the law of the State . . . 
I repeat the words: 'Until the Parliament' - &gt; this Parliament - 'otherwise provides'. Therefore, under the Constitution we have total power to say that everyone who has red hair and is 10 years of age can have a vote. That is a stupid proposition but I put it in that sense merely to explain that the Government does not lack that power. Yet, for some unexplained reason the Government is to put a referendum to the people to change the Constitution in order to give it power to do everything which it now has power to do. 
Again, if this proposal was passed, a proper legal interpretation indicates that it would have a diminishing power to what was originally granted. The words proposed to be added to the Constitution are: 
Laws made by the Parliament for the purposes of this section shall be such that every Australian citizen who complies with any reasonable conditions imposed by those laws with respect to residence in Australia or in a part of Australia and with respect to enrolment and has attained the age of 18 years is, subject to any disqualification provided by  those  laws with respect to persons of unsound mind or undergoing imprisonment for an offence, entitled to vote. 
Therefore, there are 2 propositions contained in this clause. One is that every Australian citizen shall have the right to vote. That means that the parliaments have to be directly chosen by the people. The second proposition is that everybody 18 years of age and over shall have the vote. This is what the Government seeks to amend the Constitution to achieve. We are talking about the Commonwealth Parliament 
Is there any honourable member or. any member of the other place who would seriously assert that the House of Representatives or the Senate is not directly elected by the people? There is not a person in Australia who enrols, and who is not of unsound mind or undergoing imprisonment, who is not entitled already to vote for the House of Representatives or the Senate. That right already exists. It exists pursuant to legislation enacted under the power of section 30 of the Constitution. So, every Australian has the right to vote and the 2 Houses - the House of Representatives and the Senate - are chosen by the direct vote of the Australian people. 
The other proposition put forward is that every person 18 years of age and over should have the right to vote. Has any honourable member forgotten that earlier this year, with the support of all parties, all members of this House and all members of the Senate, we conferred a vote on all people aged eighteen and over? According to the Government we are going to the people to ask them to give everybody direct power to vote, and everybody who is aged eighteen or more the right to vote. This provision already exists. This proposal is a complete nonsense. 
I refer next to clause 6 which states: 
Section 75 of the Constitution is altered by adding at the end thereof the following paragraph: 
The High Court shall have original jurisdiction in matters arising under sections twenty-four, twenty-nine, thirty,  fourty-one  or one hundred and six a of this Constitution. . . . 
The first words of section 75 of the Constitution deal with the original jurisdiction of the High Court of Australia. It states: 
In all matters - 
Arising under any treaty; &lt;ii) Affecting consuls or other representatives of other countries: 
In which the Commonwealth, or a person suing or being sued on behalf of the Commonwealth, is a party: 
Between States or between residents of different States, or between a State and a resident of another State: 
In which a writ of Mandamus or prohibition or an injunction is sought against an officer of the Commonwealth: the High Court shall have original jurisdiction. 
This is clear enough. Section 76 of the Constitution which is not mentioned in this Bill - mark these words - states: 
The Parliament may make laws conferring original jurisdiction on the High Court in any matter - 
Arising under this Constitution, or . . . 
Arising under any laws made by the Parliament. 
The powers which the Government is trying to obtain by putting, a referendum to the people to alter the Constitution it already possesses. All it has to do is introduce a Bill in the House and pass it. The Government wants to go to the people at a referendum to ask for the power to do something which is already provided for in the Constitution and has always existed. The proposition put forward by the Government is a nonsense, and honourable members opposite know that it is a nonsense. 
Clause 7 of the Bill deals with the States. In effect what it really does is to apply to each of the State parliaments the same provisions which the earlier clauses that I quoted would apply to the House of Representatives and the Senate in this Parliament. It provides that every Australian citizen who complies with reasonable conditions about enrolment shall have a vote for all Australian Parliaments. 
There is one chamber only in Australia which is not elected by the direct vote of every State citizen, and that is the upper House of New South Wales. I believe there was a referendum a few years ago in New South Wales for the purpose of dissolving that House, getting rid of it, and it failed. That House has existed to this day, and its members are elected by the combined vote of all members of both Houses of the legislature. The consequence is that one can only assume that this provision will permit a determination by the people of Queensland, South Australia, Tasmania, Western Australia and Victoria as to what should be the provisions for the upper House of New South Wales. Why should the Commonwealth Parliament say, through all the people of Australia in the other 5 States, what shall be the conditions for the upper House in New South Wales? That is the sole purpose of this clause. The other provision in clause 7 is that everybody over 18 years of age shall have a vote for State elections. Can anybody tell me which State either has not now got law or has not legislation before the Parliament to provide for 18 year old franchise? In all States 18 year olds already have the right to vote or will have by the next election. Therefore, why do we need a constitutional referendum to force the States to provide a vote for 18 year olds when the States have already given it? 
The final provision is that, just as with Federal electorates, the State electoral divisions will be resolved on the basis of population instead of electors. In this provision we run into the same problems - only they are worse in the State sphere. It means that a State electorate which is now determined on the basis of electors in future will be determined on the basis of population. With the State electorates being smaller than Federal electorates there is an even larger difference between the number of population and the number of electors. In one area the ratio of electors to population may be 1 to 1.5, in another it may be 1 to 2 and in another area it may be 1 to 1.25 depending entirely on the age structure of the people living there or on the geographical distribution of the population. Mostly adults live in the remote outback. In certain parts of the metropolitan areas the population consists mostly of young families with a lot of children. I do not believe that it is a democratic proposition to determine electorates on the basis of people. 
Again there is a provision in clause 7 that the numbers in each electoral division shall be as nearly as practicable equal, therefore doing away with all considerations of transport difficulties, communication difficulties, etc. Let me give an illustration. There is an electorate in South Australia named Eyre. The member is Graham Gunn. He is a very fine member too. His electorate has 9,441 electors and comprises 50 per cent of the land mass of South Australia. Next door to him is the electorate of Frome, with about the same number of electors and covering 38 per cent of the land mass of South Australia. Between the two of them these electorates cover 88 per cent of the South Australian land mass. If this provision went through, these 2 State electorates would be combined into one and we would have one electorate extending over 88 per cent of the land mass of South Australia. Is it right for this Parliament to determine that or to put it to the people in Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane or Perth that this is the way it ought to be done? Of course it must be left to the State Parliaments. Incidentally, the electorate of Eyre is bigger than the whole of Victoria. It runs from the Western Australian border to 50 miles from Port Lincoln, from the Northern Territory border to Andamooka. That is how big it is. But just over the border in Western Australia is a State electorate which is even bigger, and it has only 2,000 electors. Are we to say that the Western Australian State Parliament cannot authorise its electoral distribution commissioners to form an electorate of that size for the specific pur- poses it has in mind? This is taking upon ourselves the idea of authoritarianism in Canberra, the like of which was not intended by the Australian people at any time of their history, and I am sure it will not be their intention in the future. Everybody can think of these examples in Western Australia, South Australia, to some extent in Victoria, and certainly in New South Wales and certainly in Queensland. 
Is it any part of our purpose to put together 2 extraordinary conditions? One is that we change the basis for creating electoral divisions from the number of electors to the number of population, and the other is that we eliminate any prospect of making any special allowances for the size of the territory which an electorate may cover. I spoke to Graham Gunn on the telephone only a short while ago. He told me that, to cover his electorate, each year he drives 50,000 miles in his car. Would  Mr Speaker,  who represents the electorate of Redfern, travel 50,000 miles in Sydney? I think that from what I have said it has been demonstrated that there are two fundamental propositions in this Bill. The first is that the Bill is unnecessary because all the things it would do we already possess the power to do just by legislation. It is totally unnecessary to have the referendum. Secondly, if the referendum were passed, it would be imposing on this Parliament and upon the State Parliaments conditions which would not contribute to democracy but would make democracy in certain areas unworkable. Therefore I believe that this referendum proposal should be rejected. 
The Government has the numbers. We know that it will use the numbers. Notwithstanding the arguments that are put, it will use the numbers and the question will go to the people. The way in which the question will go to the people will be in accordance with the long title to the Bill. The long title to the Bill states that it is a Bill for an Act: 
To alter the Constitution so as to ensure that the Members of the House of Representatives and of the Parliaments of the States are chosen directly - 
There is nothing wrong up to that point. That is a fair description. Even though it may be faulty in logic, it is a fair description, but then it adds these words: and democratically by the People. 
It is an assertion of two remarkable things. Firstly, it is an assertion that the Government was not elected democratically. What an extraordinary proposition. The Government is putting the proposition that it was not elected democratically. Now it wants to amend the Constitution to make sure in the future it will be elected democratically. It is also an assertion that there is not a single State Parliament that was elected democratically. That is a nonsense. Therefore, because this is the question which will be put to the people, I have formed the words which I will put as an amendment to the long title. Normally one does not bother about amending a long title to a Bill because the Bill speaks for itself. But in a referendum proposal it is not the Bill that people read; it is the long title that they read. Therefore, I give notice that I will be moving at the Committee stage, if I am permitted to do so - there are only about 15 minutes left for the second reading debate, a division and then 7 minutes in Committee - to delete the words and democratically' and add the following words:  and that the criterion for determining the size of an electoral division shall be the number of people within it. 
I disagree with the proposals in the Bill but I think that if we are to put the question to the people it ought to be described properly to the people. This is the way the long title will then read: 
A Bill for an Act to alter the Constitution so as to ensure that the Members of the House of Representatives and of the Parliaments of the States are chosen directly by the people and that the criterion for determining the size of an electoral division shall be the number of people within it. 
That would be a fair description of this Bill. 
This is one of the most poorly thought out pieces of legislation that has ever been put before this Parliament as a proposal on which the people of Australia should vote. To give powers by the Constitution which were given in the Constitution at Federation is to pretend that the Australian people do not understand and are foolish. The fact is that the people of Australia do understand. It will be the Opposition's purpose to make sure that they understand. The Opposition asserts that they are not foolish. Therefore, we will oppose this referendum Bill and I believe that the Bill will be soundy defeated, as it deserves to be. 
 The Constitution Alteration (Local Government Bodies) Bill 1974 is the third in the trilogy of Constitution amendment Bills that we have had before the House today and yesterday. This Bill has as a long title 'A Bill for an Act to alter the Constitution to enable the Commonwealth to borrow Money for, and to grant Financial Assistance to, Local Government Bodies'. It should be to the interest of honourable members to examine the terms of the Bill. They are very short. The first clause deals only with the short title of the Bills, but clause 2 provides that a new placitum (IVa.) be inserted in section 51 of the Constitution. This would give the Commonwealth power to make laws with respect to the borrowing of money by the Commonwealth for local government bodies. 
Clause 3 of the Bill proposes to insert a new section 96a into the Constitution. Section 96, as it is at present, is the section of the Constitution which enables the Commonwealth to make grants to the States. It reads:   ... the Parliament may grant financial assistance to any State on such terms and conditions as the Parliament thinks fit. 
It is proposed to insert in the Constitution new section 96a which will read: 
The Parliament may grant financial assistance to any local government body on such terms and conditions as the Parliament thinks fit. 
The consequence, therefore, is that it is proposed to provide the same procedure in re lation to local government bodies as is provided by the Commonwealth in relation to the States. The purposes are clear enough. The validity of the approach needs to be examined, and that I propose to do. 
I think the first point that ought to be made is that there is at present a Constitutional Convention being held in Australia. There was a meeting of all States and the Commonwealth, with all political parties being represented, at Sydney in September. There was a week of debate and discussion on constitutional reform. As a result of that week's efforts, it was decided to set up a number of committees to examine particular aspects of the Constitution. Those committees are at present examining the Constitution and will shortly bring forward recommendations for another meeting of the convention to consider. One of the committees has as its specific task the examination of constitutional relations in respect of local government bodies. The legislation now before the House quite clearly anticipates the report of that committee. It is quite wrong, I would submit to the Parliament, that it should be so anticipated. That is one reason for opposing this legislation. 
There are far more cogent reasons for opposing it. I believe that the Australian Labor Party sees the proper structure of government in Australia as a unitary system. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  on many occasions has announced uncompromisingly that he believes in a unitary system. There seems to be some misunderstanding of what is a unitary system, so let this be made clear. A unitary system is one in which there is a single central government and there are no State governments. A unitary system would abolish the States. 
Yes. That is what centralism is. The Prime Minister and the Labor Party propose to create some sort of amorphous provincial system of representation. Just what that would be has never been spelt out, but the clear purpose of the Labor Party is to have a single unitary government in Canberra. We resist that proposal because we believe not only is it a bad form of government; it is also particularly bad for Australia, which has such a large land mass. It is particularly bad for a country which has so much expectation of population increase in the future. 
This Bill is part of the proposal by the Commonwealth Government to by-pass the States and contribute to that centralism in Australia which it so ardently wants. The way in which it will achieve centralism is not by the proper and direct device of conducting a constitutional referendum which would have as it purpose the elimination of the States or the substantial diminution of the powers of the States, thus doing it directly. The way in which it chooses to do it is very indirectly to cut down the powers of the States and to see the States decay. That is what it wants. There is no hesitation, I think, on the part of the Prime Minister and presumably on the part of his Party to acknowledge that fact. 
In order to do this the Government has set out on a deliberate campaign to try to encourage local government throughout Australia to believe that the Labor Party has the interests of local government at heart. In fact, what the Labor Party has in mind is to deceive local government into believing that it will get a better deal in such circumstances. Of course, if Labor succeeds - and it will be our purpose to prevent it from succeeding - then local government bodies will have no more role in Australia than the Labor Government sees as the role of State governments. There will be this concentration of power in Canberra. I am afraid that those in local government who believe that they will get a tremendous deal from the Federal Labor Government are in for a nasty shock. 
It will turn sour; there is no doubt about that. What the Labor Government is doing in order to win the support of local government is to put out a money enticement. They are making noises to the effect that local government would get more money from the Commonwealth Government if only local government combined with the Labor Party to enable the Labor Party to give money direct to local government. I will go into that point in a moment. I think at this stage of the argument I should make the point that if there is a money enticement being offered by the Commonwealth, it is absolutely certain that there will be conditions that go with the grant of the money. 
What are the tags that are attached to the money? 
It will turn out to be less money for the States, as my friend and colleague the honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer)  rightly points out. But at the moment I am developing this part of the argument which relates to centralism. Once that centralism is achieved we will find that the grant of money will have a whole series of conditions attached to it which will deprive local government of its own freedom of action, and some bureaucrat in Canberra will decide the way in which local government ought to conduct its affairs. I do not believe that all wisdom resides in Canberra and I certainly do not believe that you can assemble bureaucrats in Canberra who know better than do the elected councillors of the local government areas what is good for local government. 
The first part of this referendum would provide power for the Commonwealth to raise loans for local government. Let us just examine this proposition in order to see how much merit there is in it. Firstly, the present position is that the Australian Loan Council consists of representatives of the Commonwealth and the States. The Australian Loan Council determines a borrowing program for the year. Then the Commonwealth Government, on the authority and security of the Commonwealth, borrows all the money. That money, in almost every year over the past couple of decades, has been wholly distributed to the States. 
Local government borrowing falls into 2 separate categories. There are the semigovernment bodies and the local government bodies whose borrowings each year are more than $400,000. In respect of those bodies there is what is termed a gentleman's agreement because it is not covered specifically by the Loan Agreement. Under the gentleman's agreement the States and the Commonwealth agree as to how much will be the total sum of money to be borrowed on behalf of these large instrumentalities. The reason for that is that if there were no ceiling put on the amount of borrowings, money could be drawn away from the Commonwealth loan raisings, which go to the States. Therefore, the States would suffer if local government borrowings were increased and, accordingly, the gentleman's agreement is made to fix the levels of both. 
Also within the agreement provision is made to fix the interest rates at which the money is borrowed. 
That is the present situation. The Commonwealth borrows all the money for the States and the money that it borrows it hands over to the States. The States then use that borrowed money for the purpose of providing State services. Then the larger local government and semi-government bodies, each of which raise more than $400,000 a year, raise their money direct, pledging their own authority which, basically, comes back to the authority of the State and the Commonwealth, and so there is a backing from State and Commonwealth governments for it, in reality. That is fixed with a ceiling. Those local government bodies borrowing less than $400,000 a year are unrestricted as to where they can borrow from, and the total amount that can be borrowed. It is estimated that these borrowings amount to something like $100m a year. Those local government bodies borrow that money from superannuation funds, from insurance companies; and many of them borrow on overdraft from the banks. However, that is the structure that we have at the present time. 
Under the proposal now before the House the Commonwealth would be able to come in and borrow money on behalf of local government so that in the future when the Commonwealth issues a public loan, which it usually does about 4 times a year, the money that is being borrowed will have 2 destinations instead of one. Its single destination now is the States. In the future it will have 2 destinations, the States and local government - and possibly, of course, if the burden of taxation is so great and the Commonwealth decides to finance partly on borrowed money and not totally on revenue, it could have a third destination, and that would be the Commonwealth Government. However, leaving that aside for a moment and thinking of it as only 2 destinations, State government and local government, it is as clear as a pikestaff that more money has to be raised by Commonwealth borrowings in order to provide money for local government . than is at present raised when all the money goes to the States. That follows: It is perfectly obvious. 
The consequence is that if this referendum goes through and the Commonwealth decides to borrow money for local government, it will have to be more successful and raise more money from Commonwealth loans or else there will be a shortfall in the borrowed funds available to both State government and local government. In other words, the course of action proposed here is not going to assist local government but will harm local government. If it is going to assist local government positively, then it will assist local government at the cost of State government funds. There is no point in providing increased and better local government services to the community if services provided by the States deteriorate as a result. 
At the present time money raised by Commonwealth loans goes to the States, and then local government and semi-government authorities borrow money on their own account, and you can aggregate the total. But who is brave enough to say that the aggregate of the two, when it is raised by a single borrower, will be the same? I think there will be a shortfall. The only way in which action could be taken to increase the amount of borrowing is to improve the terms, to make the terms better - that is, to force up the bond rate. If at present you raise $100m for the States through the Commonwealth, and semigovernment and local government bodies raise $20m, the total amount borrowed is $120m. Of the total amount, $100m is borrowed at the Commonwealth bond rate short or long term, and $20m is raised by semi-government or local government bodies at an interest rate which is roughly half of one per cent more than the bond rate. That means that if you wanted to be sure of borrowing an aggregate of $120m, you would have to raise the bond rate over the whole of the borrowing. I realise that those are not the actual figures. I merely use them as an illustration. 
We already know that when this Government came into office the long term bond rate was 6 per cent. Within 9 months of their election, the Government managed to jack up the long term bond rate from 6 per cent to  Si  per cent. This is not a bad effort for a party which has said all its life that it is a low interest party. Everybody knows that increasing the interest rate places a frightening load on an already burdened local government. 
And on the ratepayers. The consequence of it is that these proposals, as sure as night follows day, are designed to increase the fundamental level of the interest rate in Australia. 
That is absolutely true, as the honourable member for Mackellar has said. So local government bodies need to examine 2 things in relation to the borrowings: Firstly, will local government get as much money as it gets now by borrowing itself, and secondly, will the interest rate at which local government has to take its borrowings in fact turn out to be higher in the end? They are very significant points which local government has to consider. It has to consider also this other proposition namely, if local government gets more money, will it mean that the States will get a shortfall of money? If that happens, one of two things will occur: Either the States will have to increase their revenue raising by increased taxes, or the Commonwealth will have to increase its revenue raising by increased taxes in order to provide money to the States. All in all, this apparently simple proposition is full of very serious dangers for local government in Australia. 
I come to the second part of the proposition, which is that the Commonwealth Parliament will be able to make grants of money to local government on such terms and conditions as the Parliament sees fit. At the present time that power relates only to the States. We have seen what has happened over the period, and for this purpose I must remind honourable members that it was in a. period during which we were in office that the grants which were being made to the States were getting more and more conditions attached to the grants, until the stage has been reached now where the conditions attached to some grants by the Commonwealth - by a bureaucrat here in Canberra - virtually say what colour the carpets will be and how wide a door will be in a science block. 
The conditions being applied are getting worse. When those conditions are applied to a grant, the detail of the conditions is never considered by this Parliament or by the State Parliament; it is beyond the capacity of both so to do. So we get a prescription of details in a way which is not subjected to parliamentary scrutiny. That practice has been growing, and that is precisely what will happen if grants are made direct to local government bodies by this Parliament. A local government body - a council - will sit there and say: 'Is it not great, we got this money from the Commonwealth. Now let us look at the string of conditions that we have to comply with in order to receive the money*. Local government will wander what struck it when it comes into direct conflict with the bureaucrats that this Government can assemble to tell local government what to do with the funds that it receives. 
Let us now examine the way in which grants will be made. Suppose that the Commonwealth Parliament says, as it very likely will say: 'It would be helpful for local government if direct grants were made to local government. Pursuant to this power we will do it'. Suppose the Commonwealth decided that the fair way to do it is by making per capita grants. If per capita grants are made to local government - let us say, on the basis of $1 a head or $10 a head or whatever it is - it means that whatever inequities exist now between 2 local government bodies will persist after that grant is made, because if a poor municipality and a rich municipality each receive $10 a head, there will be a difference between the poor and the rich municipalities in the same way. Therefore, it is not possible or desirable to give all municipalities a per capita grant in that way because it will not solve inequities or inequalities. 
The next thing that has to be considered is: If a grant is not to be given on a straight per capita basis because that is not the correct way, there must be a differentiation and in order to achieve differentiation one needs to look at the local government body and to say of it: 'Is that local government body doing all it can in order to raise properly and responsibly revenue by way of rates, having regard to its rating capacity?' I do not think that it would be any part of the purpose of any party in the Commonwealth Parliament to allow local government bodies which have a rating capacity but which do not raise the funds, to sit back in the traces and receive Commonwealth funds, whereas the other municipalities which are making an effort and raising funds would be no better off. Therefore, under this proposal it would be necessary for the Commonwealth to set up a body which would make those determinations and so distinguish as between municipalities. How many municipalities are there in Australia? 
There are almost 1,000 municipalities. This Government would set up a monster body which would examine the affairs of nearly 1,000 municipalities in Australia to decide who was doing what, why, how and what consideration they deserved. Quite clearly that is a wrong proposal. What should be done is that money going to local governments ought to go to them via the State governments. It so happens that if it were done that way, as I believe it should be done - the money would go to the States and the States would distribute it among the local governments - that is exactly the power that we possess now. What is wrong with this national Parliament saying: 'As a national purpose we will appropriate X amount of money for local government. It will be distributed to the State government on this formula, and the State governments will distribute it among local government bodies'? That is the way it should be done. It is the policy of the Opposition Parties to do it that way. The machinery is already there. 
Let me make this clear: The Opposition parties acknowledge and state quite categorically that local government should receive assistance by way of funds according to the total capacity of the nation to produce funds. Local government should receive extra money, and under a government constituted by the 2 Opposition parties local government would receive extra money. The way in which this would be done would be by making grants to the States so that the States could distribute the money to the municipalities in the correct way, not by creating a monster authorisation regime in Canberra to look into the council rooms of all municipalities in Australia. 
For all the reasons that I have given we will oppose this referendum violently. We will pursue our opposition right through to the day on which there is a poll, if there is a poll. I feel confident that local government will not be mesmerised by the propaganda line put by the Government, and that local government will understand that it is in its interests to reject this referendum. It will understand that it is in its interests to have us in government so that money can be given to it in the proper way, as is its right. For all those reasons this referendum should be opposed. 
I now come to a rather curious part of this proposal. Each local government body in Aus tralia is created by a statute of a State Parliament. There is no way that a local government body can be created other than by a statute of a State Government. There is no local government body in existence in Australia today that was not so created and there is no local government body in Australia which cannot be extinguished by an Act of a State Parliament. There is not a local government body that cannot have alterations made to its boundaries, its number of councillors, its powers or its authorities. It is entirely within the capacity of a State government to do that. Local government bodies can have 1,000, 200 or 20,000 municipalities by the will of the collective State governments. This Bill proposes to alter the Constitution - so we are led to believe - but we do not know what that body is which is referred to in the Constitution. This Bill will, if it is adopted, enable the borrowing of money by the Commonwealth to assist local government bodies. We may know what local government bodies then are today by looking at the maps and looking up the State Acts, but they could all be changed next week.by State governments. Here is a proposal to have a referendum which asks the people to give this Parliament power in respect of something we cannot describe. The only description of it that we can give is to say that we know what it is today but we do not know what it will be next week, next year or in 10 years time. Quite clearly, that is not the basis upon which the Constitution should be altered. Putting it in that way it is, of course, a joke. 
The Prime Minister called a conference of the Premiers of the 6 States for the purpose of considering matters relating to local government and also the question of local government being represented on the Australian Loan Council. Every State Premier, no matter what his political persuasion, rejected every proposal put by the Prime Minister in relation to this matter. As I understand it there were no more outspoken Premiers in rejecting the proposal than the Labor Premiers of South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania. Quite clearly the judgment of those State Premiers is that this proposal is against the interests of the people in their States. A person who lives in any State receives services of 3 kinds. He receives the services which are provided by the Commonwealth, which is not the issue here, and he receives services provided by the State Government and those provided by local government. Every person wanting a service wants that service provided and does not draw a great distinction as to where it emanates - he just wants the service. It is no way to solve the problem of the people of Australia, the new housing areas, the new regional areas or whatever it may be by giving local government bodies a greater capacity at the cost of reduced capacity on the part of State governments. 
If this legislation is passed, if the Constitution is altered and then legislation is passed pursuant to that power, it will be to the great disadvantage of the people of Australia who want the services, and it will be to the great disadvantage also of those people of Australia who see our Constitution as a bulwark which is essential for the protection of our standards, our way of life and our democratic centralisation of power in Canberra. If it leads to the decay of the States, it will be. a sad day for Australia. For those reasons the Opposition opposes this legislation and members of the Opposition Parties will do all that they can to defeat the referendum if it is held. 
Mi UREN (Reid - Minister for Urban and Regional Development) (6.10) - Let me analyse some of the details in regard to financial responsibilities to which the right honourable Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  referred with a display of crocodile tears. During the 23 years that the parties opposite governed this country the internal debt of the Australian Government increased by 5 per cent; the debt of the States increased toy 323 per cent and the local government debt increased by 845 per cent. I ask honourable members to compare the increased Commonwealth debt of 5 per cent with the 845 per cent debt increase for local government. As our population increased and as the number of migrants who came to this country increased, more and more responsibility was thrown onto local government, but no increase in the percentage of further financial resources was forthcoming from either the Australian Government or the respective State governments to assist local government. That is why last Tuesday in Hobart the local government authorities decided to plan a public campaign to press for representation on the Australian Loan Council. The Australian Council of Local Government Organisations, meeting in Hobart on Tuesday of this week, decided to unite in a public campaign in support of the proposal for representation on the Loan Council. The delegate for New South Wales, Alderman Coates, M.L.A., the independent member for the Blue Mountains in the State of New South Wales, said: 
Local Government had been battling for a long time for assistance, and for the first time the Commonwealth had come to the party. 
I emphasise the words 'for the first time the Commonwealth had come to the party'. He went on to say: 
It should be a backward step if local government did not show support for the Commonwealth in what it was trying to do. 
That is the voice of the Australian Council of Local Government Organisations which met in Hobart earlier this week. It clearly expressed support for the Australian Government's initiative. This Government's new commitment to local government is an important part of our overall commitment to urban and regional development. We have taken 3 initial steps already this year to upgrade the resources and to improve the status of the third tier of government in our federal system. The way in which representatives of the Opposition parties carry on demonstrates clearly that they are interested only in cliches and worn out dogma. Just have a look at the comments made by the Leader of the Opposition. What positive proposals did he put forward? The Opposition parties are interested only in business as usual. They do not want to offer any alternative to local government. For 23 years they allowed the position of local government in this country to deteriorate. They condoned the States' actions in neglecting local government. 
Local government is a creature of the States. We all recognise that. But it is apparent that the States have downgraded the position of local government. They have done it in 2 ways. On the one hand, they have passed increasing responsibilities to local government. I refer to things such as child care centres, assistance for aged persons and environmental protection. Local government is so poor that in many cases it cannot afford to police its litter laws. On the other hand, the States have failed to match the increase in financial assistance to local government. Whenever the Labor Party proposed to do something about this the same State governments could only cry centralism. Members of the Liberal and Country Parties in the national Parliament share the responsibility with the States for the downgrading of the position of local government. They condoned the States' action, they rely on cliches and hide because they are lacking in positive policies. When we talk about centralism we ought to be quite clear that it is the States themselves who are the great centralists in our nation. Does anyone doubt that the cities of Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane completely dominate the economic and cultural life in their States? 
Sitting suspended from 6.15 to 8 p.m. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Will the Minister provide a list of the interdepartmental committees which have been established since 2 December 1972, of which officers of the Department of Primary Industry are members. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
In relation to the shipbuilding responsibilities of his portfolio, 
what vessels are on order or under construction, 
where have the orders for the vessels been placed, 
when are the vessels to be constructed, 
what are the vessels in respect of which tenders have closed but no order placed, and 
what vessels are on tender. 
I have a matter of privilege which I wish to bring up. As I have said before, a matter of privilege in this House is not an issue of personal rights or privileges as that word is normally used in relation to members of the Parliament. The word 'privilege' arises out of the need for members of this Parliament, who are elected to represent the public of Australia in a democratic form, to be able to conduct the affairs of the nation in this Parliament fearlessly. Honourable members can conduct them fearlessly only if they are satisfied that there will be no recourse to accusations which are demeaning of their character so that they will not raise the issues fearlessly because of the fear of being traduced falsely.  Mr Speaker,  I am bound to say that I would like you to consider whether under the ordinary forms of the House, there has been a prima facie breach of privilege and, if so, whether it should be referred to the House of Representatives Privileges Committee. 
The nature of the breach of privilege relates to contempt of honourable members of the House generally and contempt of an honourable member of the House precisely. Last week in this House there was a debate on some Bills relating to the Constitution. It commenced on Wednesday and ran through to the Wednesday night. It also happens that on that evening there was a reception for the Prime Minister of New Zealand,  Mr Kirk.  During the course of Wednesday evening there was as you,  Mr Speaker,  will well recall, considerable debate. As a result of that debate the Opposition parties were pursuing a certain course of action. There were general allegations that the actions of the Opposition arose out of circumstances surrounding the reception of the New Zealand Prime Minister. The matters were pursued the fallowing morning. On the Thursday certain statements were made. As a result of those statements personal explanations - I should not call it debate - were made. That appeared to be the end of the matter. There was a series of words which would have best been not said. The question arose as to whether privilege should have been properly raised then. It was not so raised.  Mr Speaker,  an important matter is before the House. If the continual conversation goes on it will detract from the importance of this matter to the House. This is not just a political issue; this is an issue that runs back for centuries and is concerned with the traditions of the Westminster Parliament. If the traditions of the Westminster Parliament are not upheld, we will regret this for many, many years to come. 
On Sunday, 18 November, the Prime Minister was interviewed in Hobart. I feel that I must read this matter into the record for I believe this to be an extract of the interview. The question was asked: 
How many drinks do you think  Dr Forbes  did have and how red were his eyes really the next day? 
The Prime Minister answered: 
I don't know what his resistance is. I don't know whether his resistance is low or his intake is large. I have watched him for many years at night and, like everybody who has had that joyful experience, I have no doubt as to the cause of it. But I don't mind drunks as long as they don't disrupt procedures. Some of my best friends get drunk at night, particularly after free drink. But I don't allow them to break up the party and he was full that night and he was hung over the following morning. Now, there is no question about that. I don't mind if he just lies torpid in his seat but the fact was on the Wednesday night during one division he got up from where he was sprawled, came to the table and leant on it and shouted across to one of my colleagues: 'It's your fault, Daly! It's your fault, Daly!' and going on with a lot of pleasantries. And the following day during question time when I quite gently said that the Liberals had abused my hospitality, he got up and said it was offensive. Well, he was one of the causes of it. In answer to your question, I don't know. All I can say is the symptoms were obvious. 
This is not the time to debate the issue. I do not believe that the issue is one for debate at all. It is a matter for you to decide whether there is a prima facie case and, if there is, the matter should go to the Privileges Committee for the Privileges Committee to report to this chamber. When that report is presented, it is a matter for the House to act as it sees fit. It will be guided by the recommendations from the Privileges Committee. At that time,  I  will say more. 
I give notice that at the next sitting I will move: 
That this House censures the Prime Minister for his contempt of the Parliament and his personal abuse of its procedures and its members to protect himself. 
I move: 
That this House censures the Prime Minister for his contempt of the Parliament and his personal abuse of its procedures and its members to protect himself. 
Last week the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  made statements which were reprehensible and contemptible. They had no basis in fact. They were the outpourings of a man whose mind knows no boundaries.  His  big head is not big enough to contain it. At every opportunity vindictiveness and hate pour out of him. I ask honourable members to look at him. He knows, even though he gives no service to it, that this Parliament is the pinnacle of the protection of the citizens of Australia in every constitutional form. This Parliament must act responsibly because it bears full responsibility for the protection of the Australian people. In order to do its job the Parliament must be conducted properly, with due regard to the development, over the centuries, of the Westminster proceedings in Parliament. The Prime Minister knows the proceedings. He has read of them but does he give proper appreciation to them? He knows that this Parliament should not be a place to which honourable members come and are able to assassinate the character of any other member in it without any basis for the assassination, without any truth in the allegation, and without any opportunity for that member to protect himself against the public scandal that would arise as a result of those statements. 
The Prime Minister knows that. He also knows that the Westminster parliamentary system which we have adopted in Australia has deliberately designed itself to protect members of the Parliament, from whatever side they may come. The Speakers of parliament have constantly been alert to ensure that these sorts of allegations cannot be made. They know that if a man or a woman comes into this Parliament and is subject to character assassination, that person does not have the courage and the freedom at all times to pursue the issues that he or she feels ought to be pursued in the way that they ought to be pursued. That is the privilege of this Parliament, and that is what is meant by privilege. What the Government, led by the Prime Minister, seeks to do is to silence the Liberal and Country Party members and prevent them from properly exposing the bad effects of Government against the possibility of being accused in the way that the honourable member for Barker  (Dr Forbes)  was accused. 
An error was made the other night,  Mr Speaker.  You must listen to this because you may think that I am criticising you, but it is my honest belief - and it is the honest belief of honourable members on this side of the House - that a serious error was made in the procedures of this Parliament in relation to a constitutional Bill. What we sought to do then, by point of order, was to establish that error and, as I made clear on a couple of occasions that night, we said we would do whatever was necessary to co-operate in the correction of that error because we regarded it as an error and we believed that we should not take advantage of the error in order to subvert the particular piece of legislation. That was what the Opposition Parties sought to do. With respect,  Mr Speaker,  it was not understood by you and by your advisers, and it certainly was not understood by the Government. The Government became bellicose and aggressive and tried to silence Opposition members by stating that we in globo were affected by the Prime Minister's hospitality. It happened that it was not his hospitality; it was the hospitality of the people of Australia as shown through him. We were supposed to be cowed down and not to pursue that point. Hansard and the record of proceedings will show that an error was made. We were supposed to be cowed down. Then the Government got the idea that it should make it clear, through its propaganda machine, that our actions were not right, correct and proper actions but were actions stimulated by an excess of alcohol. That was the clear imputation which was being put. It was not true. I know of no member on this side of the House who was affected at all. 
That sort of outburst illustrates that it is a deliberate policy on the part of the Government to defend its own faults and errors by making allegations against members on this side of the House which are aimed at detracting from our character as men. A deliberate course of action was taken to denigrate us on that ground. Who was chosen as the vehicle for the denigration? The honourable member for Barker. This is not a place to speak to the record of a man, and I do not. But those of us who have served in the Parliament for, I think it is, about 16 or 17 years with Jim Forbes, the member for Barker, know him to be a man of immense personal standing and of very great personal characteristics and courage. If he had something to be criticised or condemned for, nobody would sooner stand up and take it than Jim Forbes would. But when he has been wrongly traduced, when he has been chosen as the vehicle to attack all honourable members on this side, and when, unwittingly, recklessly and uncaringly the Government is prepared to pull down this great institution of parliament at the same time, then this Parliament has come to a sad position. That is the basis. 
The Prime Minister to protect himself from outrageous statements has prevailed upon his Party. There are members on the Government side of the House for whom I have great respect. There may be some of whom I have not enough personal knowledge to have a personal liking for them, but I have a great respect for many of them. I am ashamed that they allowed themselves to be manoeuvred into a political position of being prepared to abandon the parliamentary institution in order to protect a leader who acted so reprehensibly in their interests last week and again on Sunday of this week. How any man could, on the Thursday, do what he did is difficult to understand, but in relation to the Thursday I am prepared to say that the Prime Minister was in some way activated and lost control of himself and therefore said words that he would not otherwise have used. But when, 48 hours later, the Prime Minister deliberately and carefully chooses his words to do as much harm as he possibly can, there can be no excuse for him. The fact that he is the Prime Minister makes the offence worse. We know that if a judge has before him somebody who has a responsibility for law enforcement, such as a policeman or a lawyer, who has broken the law, the penalty imposed is severer because that person should know better and should give good example. We were given a horrid example by the words which, I regret, I must read out again so that their full implication can be understood. 
The carefully chosen words of the Prime Minister which are designed to cause as much harm as possible can be described only as a wonderful collection of spite. The question which was put to him was: 
How many drinks do you think  Dr Forbes  did have and how red were his eyes really the next day? 
The Prime Minister, sitting at the table, looking at the eyes of the honourable member for Barker, sitting in his place, is able to say that they were red. Does anybody believe that? The Prime Minister replied: 
I don't know what his resistance is. I don't know whether his resistance is low or his intake is large. 1 have watched him for many years at night and, like everybody who has had that joyful experience, I have  no doubt as to the cause of it. But I don't mind drunks as long as they don't disrupt procedures. Some of my best friends get drunk at night- 
I suppose that is an allusion to religious or racial groups -  particularly after free drink.  After free drink I have seen some things happen in this place but I do not intend to speak about them today. Is there anybody in this House who thinks that it will help the character of this Parliament by restating what he had seen after some function in this place? If there is, then let him get up and say so. Let him pick the persons whose character he is going to assassinate, because that is what the Prime Minister did and he did it without the slightest warrant on which to base the assassination. It so happens that the honourable member for Barker spent most of the latter part of the evening with the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  and the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Whittorn)  watching the Royal wedding. If the Privileges Committee had been allowed to investigate this matter, there could have been sworn evidence which would have been much more preferable to unsubstantiated, vicious allegations such as those that were made. 
The basis of the rule of the protection of members does not have anything to do with the fact that members are in some sort of privileged class. That is not the way in which the word 'privilege' is used. Privilege is extended in order to enable every member to come in here fearlessly - without any fear of threat and without any hope of favour - and to conduct the affairs of this nation and its electors as they ought to be conducted. That is the original privilege and it has lasted for centuries. One of the simplest ways of character assassination is to allege that a man is drunk. Let me make quite clear that if an honourable member gets up in this House and makes such an allegation every newspaper, every radio and every television station can publish or broadcast that allegation without the slightest fear of having to answer for the consequences in damages. So that when an allegation is made, whether it is true or false, it can be printed without any recourse through the law for the man traduced. 
I want to make it clear that when the Press, radio and television report the proceedings they do so properly because it is an event that has occurred in this House and as such it ought to be reported. It is a matter of public notoriety. So I do not criticise any members of the media for reporting it. What I do is criticise the man who triggers it off and causes it to be reported and who deprives an honourable member of his right to correct the allegation. If, because of the use of the numbers in this House, an honourable member cannot even bring it up in debate in order to justify himself, what is he left with? Absolutely nothing. I ought to point out that in this House protection from the law is given to the publishers of anything that is said in this House against anybody, whether the person is a member of this House or not. When it involves a person other than a member of this House we all know how contemptuous it is to name in this House somebody who has no right to defend himself and who must live with the damage that has been done to his character. That is why the rule is so clear. The rule is that a member should not traduce other members of this House. If he does traduce another member he is in contempt of this House. If he is in contempt of this House it is a breach of privilege and it ought to go to the Privileges Committee, which Committee will report back to this House. 
Are we in this chamber to be reduced to a position where we cannot argue issues, to a position of personal innuendo going backwards and forwards? The people of Australia will not benefit if we reach that stage. What they want is the argument on the issues and the principles so that they know which policy they support. They want to hear honourable members on this side of the House say why we oppose and they want to hear Government supporters argue their case. But as a result of what has happened this morning this Parliament has said that if anybody in this chamber gets up and throws personal abuse and engages in character assassination of another member he can do it with impunity. 

 Mr Speaker, that ruling by this House cannot survive. If we act according to that ruling we will no longer be a Parliament, we will be a rabble. So long as that ruling continues no member of this House is safe from personal abuse. It can range across the whole of the moral crimes and criminal crimes and nobody will have the right to protect his reputation.  Mr Speaker,  the Parliament today has sunk to a level the like of which no other Parliament in the world which treasures democracy has done. We have pushed aside the Privileges 
Committee cavalierly by the force of numbers. The reason that the Privileges Committee has been set aside cavalierly is to protect one man, and that one man is the Prime Minister. He is being protected from paying the penalty for deliberate words used in Hobart in relation to the honourable member for Barker. 

 Mr Speaker, it is a sad day for the Parliament. I introduced this matter of privilege and tried to do it as dispassionately as possible and within the context of the way in which matters of privilege have been traditionally raised over the centuries, and certainly have been raised in my time in this Parliament since 1955. The normal way is for the person raising the issue of privilege to get up, raise it and state what is the matter complained about. The  Speaker  then takes counsel as to whether there is a prima facie case, and if there is it goes to the Privileges Committee. If there is not a prima facie case, that is the end of the matter - and the person who raised it, and all parties, accept the ruling of the  Speaker  on the matter. It must be done that way because the Privileges Committee has tremendous power and it must not be used improperly. We have all taken the rulings of the  Speaker,  knowing that he has taken proper advice and counsel. That procedure today was abandoned. That procedure today was abandoned, and I must say it, only for one clear reason - that is, to protect the Prime Minister. 
The Prime Minister should give example to this Parliament, not call upon the Parliament to protect him from his own sins.  Mr Speaker,  I am bound to say that during the years I have been here the Prime Minister has set up a pattern of uncontrolled tongue and uncontrolled action and has consistently got away with it. Most times it has been ignored because we did not want to make an issue of it but today, because of the action of his own Party in protecting him in this manner, I am bound to say that I have never seen in this Parliament a man so willing to abandon for his own self-protection all the forms of the House. Many of us here will remember the night he threw water on the present Governor-General. Many members here will remember the night that he accused my colleague, a former Prime Minister- he was not Prime Minister at the time - of a matter against which the honourable gentleman could not adequately protect himself. It was untrue but he could not protect himself against constant innuendo. Nobody will forget the occasion on which he accused my friend and colleague, the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  - I quote his words as I remember them - and said: 'You're not slurring so early today'. Nobody will forget the occasion that the then Secretary of the Department of the Navy was sitting in the officials box and he turned and said: 'That creature'. (Extension of time granted.) I thank the House. I have only 2 sentences to add. There have been many other occurrences and they have culminated in this event. I am not proud of the performance of the Parliament today in using numbers to prevent this matter going to the Privileges Committee. 
asked the Minister for 
Defence, upon notice: 
Will he provide a list of the interdepartmental committees, which have been established since 2 December 1972, of which officers of his Department are members. 
asked the Minister for Navy, upon notice: 
Willhe provide a list of the interdepartmental committees, which have been established since 2 December 1972, of which officers of his Department are members. 
asked the Minister for the 
Army, upon notice: 
Will he provide a list of the interdepartmental committees, which have been established since 2 December, 1972, of which officers of his Department are members. 
asked the Minister for Air, upon notice: 
Will he provide a list of the interdepartmental committees, which have been established since 2 December 1972, of which officers of his Department are members. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Will he provide a list of the interdepartmental committees, which have been established since 2 
December 1972, of which officers of his Department are members. 
asked the Minister for Works, upon notice: 
Will he provide a list of the interdepartmental committees, which have been established since 2 December 1972, of which officers of his Department are members. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
What is the membership of the working party that has been established to examine and report on the implementation, on a uniform basis, of the Government's censorship policy. 
What are the terms of reference of the working party. 
Has the working party met; if so, when. 
When is the working party likely to complete its deliberations. 
asked the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 550 which I asked on 16 May 1973. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
How many doctors were practising in Canberra as at 2 December 1972. 
How many doctors were practising in Canberra as at 2 November 1973. 
How many doctors left practice in Canberra during this period. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
With reference to Question No. 975 (Hansard 15 October 1973 page 2128), how many pensioners in each State, who are enrolled in the Pensioner Medical Service and are thereby eligible for the 50 per cent concession provided by the Australian Government Railways to undertake interstate travel, took advantage of the concession in 1972-73. 
What was the cost of providing this concession in 1972-73. 
What is the estimated annual cost of extending eligibility for this concession to all pensioners. 
How many pensioners in each State and in each category, for whom the 50 per cent concession provided by the Australian National Shipping Line applies, took advantage of the concession in 1972-73. 
What is the exact nature of this concession. 
What was the cost of providing this concession in 1972-73 for each category of pensioner. 
asked the Minister for Exter nal Territories, upon notice: 
Did he refer to the application of International Labour Organisation conventions to the Cocos (Keeling) Islands in a statement issued on 17 April 1973; if so, what were the conventions to which he referred. 
What would be the effect in summary of each of these conventions on the existing situation on the Islands. 
When will the appropriate declaration with respect to the conventions be made. 
When can a statement on the future government of the Islands be expected. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Will the Minister provide a list of the interdepartmental committees which have been established since 2 December 1972, of which officers of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs are members. 
asked the Minister for Services and Property, upon notice: 
What is the total area of office space currently occupied or allocated to each Department of the Public Service. 
What is the total area of office space occupied by or allocated to each statutory authority or commission. 
Where is this office space located for each Department or section of a Department. 
For each Department, what area of current office accommodation is (a) rented to the Government and (b) owned by the Government. 
What is the predicted requirement for office accommodation by each Department as at June 1974. 
asked the Minister for Education; upon notice: 
When may I expect an answer to Question No. 712 which I asked on 30 May 1973. 
asked the Minister for Supply, upon notice: 
Will he provide a list of the interdepartmental committees, which have been established since 2 December 1972, of which officers of his Department are members. 
asked the Minister for Trans  port, upon notice: 
How many free passes does the Commonwealth Railways provide to the Totally and Permanently Disabled Soldiers' Association for distribution among its members. 
What percentage of Totally and Permanently Disabled Soldiers does this number represent. 
Why are free passes not made available to all members of the Association. 
Who decides the number of passes to be provided and on what basis. 
What entitlement do the free passes bestow. 
asked the Minister for Nor  thern Development, upon notice: 
Will he provide a list of the interdepartmental committees, which have been established since 2 
December 1972, of which officers of his Department are members. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
<para pgwide="yes">Further to question No. 883 will he indicate for those applications that have been approved (a) the organisations involved (b) the subsidy involved in each case (c) the number of beds provided in each case and (d) the location of the hostels. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Has the Minister given consideration to the provision of long term loans to enable Australian fishermen to purchase modern fishing equipment. 
Does the Government support such financial assistance. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to statements by his predecessor that he was considering proposing that every Department take a proportion of Aboriginals on its staff and that a fair target would be 1 per cent. 
What is the Minister's attitude to this proposal, and does the Minister intend to pursue consideration of it. 
asked the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Further to question No. 1089 and in light of the answer provided by him and that provided by the Prime Minister in the House of Representatives on 7 November 1973, has the Prime Minister instructed him to provide a list of inter-departmental committees of which officers of his Department are members; if so, will he now provide me with such a list. 
asked the Minister for the Environment and Conservation, upon notice: 
Further to question No. 1091 and in light of the answer provided by him and that provided by the Prime Minister in the House of Representatives on 7 November 1973, has the Prime Minister instructed him to provide a list of interdepartmental committees of which officers of his Department are members; if so, will he now provide me with such a list. 
asked the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Following his answer to question No. 1089 and in the light of the Prime Minister's guarantee in the House of 7 November 1973 that the information will be made available, will he provide a list of the interdepartmental committees established since 2 December 1972 of which officers of his Department are members. 
asked the Minister for the Environment and Conservation, upon notice: 
Following his answer to question No. 1091 and in the light of the Prime Mininter's guarantee in the House on 7 November 1973 that the information would be made available, will he provide a list of the interdepartmental committees established since 2 December 1972 of which officers of his Department are members. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
What percentage of eligible children attend preschool centres in (a) the Australian Capital Territory and (b) the Northern Territory. 
What is the average annual cost per child in these centres, excluding Government subsidy. 
How many centres are there in each Territory. 
How many children are there in each of these centres. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Which Minister has jurisdiction and responsibility for the National Book Resources Development Committee. 
On what date did the Prime Minister request  Mr Winter  to inquire into the 3 matters which are dealt with in  Mr Winter's  report? What fees were paid to  Mr Winter?  When did the Prime Minister decide that the industrial peace conference to be held on 11 and 12 December was the appropriate place to discuss  Mr Winter's  report? When does the Prime Minister expect that that conference of 11 and 12 December will be equipped to discuss measures such as tax reform, proposals for an incomes policy, proposals for a prices policy, etc., as recommended by  Mr Winter?  Finally, if there are to be consultations and if this industrial peace body is to be the vehicle for the consultations, how is it that the Minister for Labour has specifically excluded every politician from attendance at the conference? 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
How many applications for naturalisation have been refused as a result of Australian security reports since 2 December 1972. 
From what countries did the applicants come. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Can the Commonwealth Statistician give figures of expenditure by State governments on pre-school education in 1972-73. 
The Government is manufacturing an issue by misrepresentation. The real issues involved in the education matter before us in the public Press today are these: All members of the House of Representatives voted in favour of the expenditure of $690m for education for 1974-75, which was the recommendation of the Karmel Committee. The Opposition not only wants that sum of money spent, but also wants to see retained the principle that every Australian child is entitled to a grant regardless of the school to which the child's parents send it. This principle was unanimously reaffirmed by the Catholic bishops in August this year and it is a principle which the Liberal and Country Parties have constantly espoused. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  have failed to honour clear promises which they gave many times throughout 1972, both before and after the election, in the following terms: The Prime Minister in speaking of recurrent grants to schools said: "The ALP will support any forms of benefit already existing.' This per capita grant to all school children existed at that time. The Minister for Education said: Whispering campaigns to the contrary, no private school under Labor will in future get less than the per capita grant it gets now.' That clear undertaking is now the issue in this education debate. The Opposition's policy and the promises of the Prime Minister and the Minister for Education are in fact the same thing. The only difference is that the Opposition has the courage and the principle to stand by its policy, and the Prime Minister and the Minister for Education deny their clear promises. 
The next point is that the Opposition supports the provision of extra funds on the basis of need. There is no reason whatever why the Government cannot honour its undertakings and achieve the expenditure that it wishes. Any representation that this involves $114m is false, and deliberately so. The sum involved is less than $5m per annum. Any representation that it is the wealthy schools only which are to be advantaged is false. Under the Karmel Committee's proposals, which are included in this Bill, 53 per cent of secondary pupils in independent schools will receive less money than they would have received under the former Government's legislation. By the action taken by the Opposition in the 
House of Representatives the security of the basic grant to every child attending a nongovernment school is preserved, as it should be. Twenty-two per cent of all Australian children attend those schools, and this affects every one of them. There is no valid reason why the $690m of funds for education should be held up by the Government, as it is threatening to do. The previous Government passed legislation which provided grants for each child - $104 for secondary pupils and $62 for primary students, which at that time was 20 per cent of the cost of running a government school. The Karmel Committee's report introduced a categorisation scheme of all non-government schools from A to H. The category A schools are to receive that amount of money in 1974 and then they are to stop receiving assistance altogether after 1974. Meanwhile the schools in categories B to H are to receive varying amounts - the lower in the alphabet, the higher the amount. 
For example, in the secondary area, all schools in categories A to F are to be worse off under the Karmel report. So it is not just category A schools that the Opposition is concerned about; it is the schools in categories A to F. Those categories can be changed at any time at the whim of the Minister. There is no appeal and no criteria for change in the Bill. Two of the Opposition's amendments relate to that. In the secondary schools, categories A to F - which contain about half the children in the private schools and the Catholic parochial schools - are to be worse off under the Karmel Committee's report. The Opposition is taking action now to preserve the money sum of the grant to those disadvantaged schools in the private sector - not the continued escalation at 20 per cent of the cost of running a government school as it was when first put, but the money sum in accordance with the promises given by the Prime Minister and the Minister for Education. 
The fundamental principles as we see them are these: All children, no matter to which school their parents send them, should receive a grant. There should be distributed, on top of this fundamental grant to every child, much larger funds according to need. That is why the Opposition supports the Karmel Committee's report and why it insists that this per capita grant to every child should be preserved. Surely this must be right. Does anyone say that a child, because its parents send it to a particular school, is not entitled to the equality of opportunity- 
 Be quiet. Does anyone say that because a child's parents send it to a particular school, that child, with no choice, is to be removed from the possibility of support from Commonwealth funds? That is the greatest bit of class intrusion by these middle class intellectual socialists that one could possibly get. The Australian Episcopal Conference supports that view and I am sure that every decent minded citizen of Australia supports it. The fact is that there are some courses open. The first course that is open is quite clearly this: The Opposition could not carry that amendment in this House because it does not have the numbers to carry it in this House. Whether that amendment will be carried in the Senate remains to be seen. I can say to this House that I have every confidence that the senators of the LiberalCountry Party joint Opposition will be supporting the amendment in the Senate. We could not move amendments in this House which would have the effect of increasing the expenditure by $5m because there has to be a message from the Governor-General to increase the appropriation. For that reason we could not move the amendment to increase the amount by about $Sm. 
Therefore there was only one course open to us and that was to refuse to allow the repeal of the old Act so that we could bring the Government to its senses, so that the Government could honour the promises made by the Prime Minister and the Minister for Education and not make them untruthful. So the Opposition decided that it would move to prevent the repeal of the Act. We knew that the Government would then face the prospect of introducing an amendment itself to provide this sum of under $Sm or, if it chose to from a misplaced regard for itself, of acting childishly and making the Prime Minister and the Minister for Education look ridiculous in failing to honour their promises. The Government can call for a double dissolution if it wants to. We will have a double dissolution if the Government wants it, and would win the election. (Extension of time granted). We were threatened with a double dissolution over the industrial arbitration legislation. The Government said: 'Let it through, or we will take you to the people'. We said: 'We are not going to be cowed down by a threat. It is bad legislation and we will defeat it'. We defeated it. The Government then said that it would bring in 2 separate Bills. We have not yet seen the second Bill. The first Bill came into this House. We moved a series of amendments. The Bill was transmitted to the Senate. The Opposition there carried the amendments. The Bill came back to this House, and the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  accepted all those amendments. We made it better legislation. 
Then we were threatened with a double dissolution over the Electoral Bill. It was said that that Bill would make elections democratic. The clear implication was that this Government was elected undemocratically. But we said that we would not be frightened by these threats, and we rejected the Bill. Not only has the Government not called a double dissolution, but it probably has lost the ground for calling a double dissolution on that issue because it has dallied around on it. The Government then said to us: 'If you do not pass the mining code in the Seas and Submerged Lands Bill, we will take you to the people'. We said: OK, we will take you to the cleaners. We will reject that mining code'. 
The Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  came into the chamber yesterday fuming and huffing and puffing. A whole pile of papers was brought in. The honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Viner),  quite innocently, walked up and took one of the papers. He was halfway down the passage when one of the members of the staff of the House chased after him and told him that the Government had declared the paper secret. The honourable member was told that he could not have it, and it was taken out of his hands. Of course, being a good mannered chap, he gave it over. We still do not know what the Government was planning yesterday. It was going to come in here and take us on; it was going to take us to the people. Then the Minister for Minerals and Energy came into the House last night and said: 'We now accept the amendment'. Once again we did not have a double dissolution on the issue. 
Now we have the States Grants (Schools) Bill. We believe that we are absolutely right in principle. We are saying that, for the sum of less than $5m, every child in Australia shall have that basic equality of education in which every child is entitled to a grant and that on top of that extra sums should be provided on the basis of need. We believe that that principle is right and we believe that the undertakings of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  'should be honoured. By implication, throughout the election campaign last year every member of the then Opposition was saying to the parents of children in the private schools: 'You can vote Labor, and the principle of per capita grants will be retained'. The then Opposition got into office and did not honour the promise. So many promises have been dishonoured that we tend to forget just how deep is the obligation of a government to maintain a promise. If the Government wants a double dissolution on this issue and says that the Opposition is opposed to the expenditure of $690m or to the recommendations of the Karmel Committee report, it will be making a fraudulent statement. That is not true. If the Government does say that, everybody in Australia should know that it is saying falsehoods in an attempt to serve its own political interests. We are prepared to fight the issue out on this basis. 
 I have agreed for the Opposition to these 4 Bills being debated in a cognate debate. Those Bills are the AlburyWodonga Development Bill, the AlburyWodonga Development (Financial Assistance) Bill, the Growth Centres (Financial Assistance) Bill, and the Land Commissions (Financial Assistance) Bill. The first 2 Bills are obvious companions for the establishment of the Albury-Wodonga city complex. The second provides finance for that purpose. The other two are not in fact directly related to the Albury-Wodonga complex although they are part of the whole scheme of legislation relating to regional and urban development and they form part of the legislative scheme, but only part because the remainder of the scheme in relation to Albury-Wodonga and the development of growth centres belongs to the States and there will be legislation from the States. I think it is proper that they should be debated together. I welcome all 4 of these Bills. They will be supported by the Opposition. The initiatives in these Bills set out to relieve the pressures on the ever sprawling maritime conurbations. In over-simple terms, major cities are growing too large and therefore there must be active intervention to regionalise development. Really, it means that there is too much concentration on the hub of the major cities and not enough on the circumference. 
Therefore, consideration needs to be given to the circumference and also to developing regional development centres so that the pressures on the circumference or the inner city are relieved by the development of the regional development centres. Some natural choice has been manifested by the citizens of this country in coming to the major conurbations. We all know that the non-metropolitan centres are tending to decline in population, although some of the non-urban areas are attracting population and many of the country towns are actually growing. That natural choice needs assistance. We must assist this process in 2 ways. We must see that there is a better standard of life on the circumference and that there is the opportunity for people to find what they would naturally select outside the urban areas. We must not overlook the very significant importance of the inner urban areas, but I will come to that shortly. 
The inner cites themselves are in need of renewal and more attractive planning so that open space, playing fields and landscaping become more a rule than an accident. We have very devoted and imaginative planners in Australia and we need to give them scope for their imaginative drive. I am glad to say that not only the Commonwealth Government but also the State governments and the major municipalities have attracted planners who are developing very good schemes. 
One of the major reasons why the Opposition wholeheartedly supports this legislation is that last year, while in government, we introduced a piece of legislation known as the National Urban and Regional Development Authority Bill. I am glad to say that the quality of that legislation was recognised by the incoming Government. The amendments that this Government made to the legislation were to provide a role for the new ministry that was established - the Department of Urban and Regional Development - within the structure of the Authority, and to change the name to the Cities Commission. I remember that at the time there was some debate as to whether the name should be the Cities Commission or whether the old name should be maintained. That is in the past. It is the Cities Commission. There is a role for the Department. But, basically, the legislation before the House today is the legislation which was introduced by the previous Government last year. I think that all parties take the view that this scheme should be developed. Some differences of attitude may emerge over time, but we welcome the continuation of that initiative. I do not think it is an issue on which we should compete with each other as to who took the initiative. The fact  is  that the legislation exists and we must go ahead on the basis of that legislation in the national interest. 
We must set out to improve the expectation of people to a clean, aesthetic and yet varied environment. Some of the most beautiful areas of the capital cities are in the inner metropolitan areas. By that I do not mean what might be described as the actual city; I mean some of the surrounding residential areas. In most cities those areas are really very beautiful and ought to be preserved and developed. Yet this beauty is becoming increasingly obscured by lack of care of the buildings and the houses and by the intrusion into naturally beautiful residential areas of other types of residences or groups of residences which do not have the same charm. One thing that is apparent is that many of the buildings in the cities show the grime that has accumulated since coal furnaces and the internal combustion engine were introduced. Australia does not have the range of beautiful buildings that some of the older European cities have. Those who have been to London and Paris recently will have noticed the tremendous change that has occurred in both those cities by taking the grime off the natural beauty of buildings. We must pay tribute to what migrants have done in some of the inner suburban areas in taking old, broken down houses and refurbishing them, painting them and making them very attractive. 
And taking pride in them. I have been supplied with the word by the honourable member for Griffith. People have taken pride in these areas. I think it is important that there be selection. I believe that more and more people will be confronted with the dilemma of choice in the future. Young people with young families may very well want to live further away from the city centre; but, as the children grow older and leave home, the parents who are left on their own may very well want to live in the closer city area. In planning we must have in mind the different phases of selection which people will have in their minds when selecting their residence. 
I turn now to regional development, about which the first 2 Bills are concerned. The Cities Commission appears to be trying a mix of a number of precepts of regional development, with the intention of locating regional centres at markedly varying distances from the capital cities. Centres such as Geelong and Holsworthy-Campbelltown are most reasonably considered to be sub-metropolitan centres or, to use the word which the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  used in his second reading speech, systems cities. I have not been using that word, although I have been meaning the same thing. I have been referring to sub-city centres and I think it really amounts to the same thing. If the term that is to be used is 'systems cities', I do not object to using it; but I believe that the term 'sub-city centres' expresses more adequately what I have in mind. 
The Minister has just said that we live in an environmental age. Words catch on. The term 'systems cities' probably will be adopted, but I will not alter my concept of sub-city centres. Incidentally, it was once reported that I was talking about subsidy centres. I mean not subsidy centres but subcity centres. Initially conceived as dormitory towns for the large cities, there is an increasingly and generally held concept that these systems cities should themselves be selfsufficient with their own services and industries. I support the concept of systems cities on the periphery of the major conurbations. There has been some discussion, if not controversy, about whether regional development should be essentially in the suburbs or spread inland. This consideration has been shown in the Schedule. Quite clearly, it must be both. 
I want to make a point about the difficulties of appropriation of funds for metropolitan transport. I believe that there is a great danger that, in allocating funds for metropolitan transport, we could fall into the trap of providing money so that all suburban transport converges on the hub. This must not happen. If it does happen, it will mean that the conurbations will grow worse because everybody will be transported into the hub in the morning and out of the hub in the evening. It is very important that, in developing metropolitan transport systems and making money available for them, there should be major planning on the basis of bringing people into that sub-city centre from around it and not transporting everybody to the hub. 
Another consideration that is implicit in the Schedule is the fact that regional centres may arise in 'new towns', such as is envisaged in Monarto, or may grow from pre-existing centres such as Albury-Wodonga. In looking through the Schedule, I find that obviously there is an eye to experimentation in this area, even though on page 25 of the Cities Commission report the criteria for selection of a growth centre are set out. Some of these appear more immediately relevant. For instance, the physical resources base - that is, better opportunities - would appear to be an important criterion for ultimate self-sufficiency. On the other hand, providing those better opportunities is more a statement of objective than a quantifiable element. What we must have in mind is converting the objective into some quantifiable element. A natural diplomacy is implicit in the fact that each State has at least one of these centres. This is good, because it must be recognised that the problem of regional development requires a national policy. The funds that come from the Commonwealth Government come from the general body of taxpayers. 
The essential consideration is that these regional centres must be attractive enough for people to want to live in them rather than to flock to the pre-existing urban areas. Achievement of this is contingent on work opportunities being made available. I feel that it is essential that both private and public investment in these centres be encouraged. I think that we could very well have in the sub-city centres - the system centres - a priming from public funds of public buildings in those centres. I do not wish to see a series of what I may term public service towns being developed with public servants unwillingly being relocated just because a government has a grand design. Nor do I wish to see regional centres being developed as places where migrants are directed only to escape later when they have served their period, as happened in earlier years when migrants had to remain in a designated place for 2 years. 
I agree with the principle of facilitating the settlement of migrants in Australia as expres sed in the Albury-Wodonga Development Bill, but we must remain conscious of the fact that people must retain their freedom of choice to live wherever they want and to have the mobility to move from one place to another. We can achieve this only by making these growth centres more attractive to people. Therefore I am sure the planner of these regional centres would have in mind the need to provide incentives for people to stay in these centres. There must be the development of job opportunities. This applies particularly to young people. There must be the facility for top class education, for entertainment, the theatre, the arts and something we must not overlook, that is, sheer size. Some people only wish to live in a city where there is a feeling of congregation, and they require size. 
The whole concepts implicit in these Bills are that they set a development pattern for Australia up to the year 2000. I am unreservedly in favour of any policy which will contribute to this national growth. This means providing a balance between the social environment and the need for Australia to recognise its optimum economic potential. There are varying estimates of what the population of Australia will be in the year 2000. I think we can safely say it will not be less than 22 million or 23 million1 . and very likely will be 25 million. But I think it will not be 25 million if- 
The Minister says that he hopes it will not be. That expresses a very significant difference between the Minister and myself. The Minister is operating on the basis that we must hold down population in order to make the quality of life good. I hold the opposite view. I believe that Australia has potential and capacity; it has people; it has resources, and by growth we can contribute more to our people and we can discharge the idealism that Australians feel to people outside Australia by generating the wealth of Australia. Therefore my belief is that we should grow. We need to make sure that in growing we do not sacrifice qualities. The Minister's attitude is that he prefers the population not to grow but to concentrate everything on quality. I do not believe that by refusing to grow we will necessarily achieve greater quality. I am sure that if we continue to grow, if we are not afraid, and if we are adventurous within reason so that we know what we are doing and why, we will make Australia a better country in which to live. I do not believe we should stultify growth because we are afraid. I believe the Minister's attitude is to stultify growth because he is afraid. The task is ours to achieve. 
The Minister, by way of interjection, has said that he has always accepted a growth rate of 1.1 per cent. 
I would support a growth rate vastly in excess of 1.1 per cent. The point is that we should take into the country as many people as we can find who suitably fit into our environment, into our way of life, and who can contribute. I do not believe an artificial boundary can be set. I am interested that the Minister acknowledges a growth rate of at least 1.1 per cent, because he is going to have problems with growth. 
The Minister acknowledges that. If we are to have problems with growth let us realise that it is within our hands to take the appropriate measures to ensure the quality of life of the people making that growth. The Bills set out a mechanism for implementation of the design of this complex. The Albury-Wodonga Development Bill sets out a prototype for the development of a regional centre, and I applaud the evidence of Federal and State co-operation as evidenced by this Bill. Without this co-operation the Albury-Wodonga regional centre, first conceived by the Victorian Government in discussion with the Liberal-Country Party Government, would still remain just a good idea. It is said that the original concept of AlburyWodonga came from the Prime Minister when he was the Leader of the Opposition. The story further goes on that on one occasion Graham Freudenberg, not knowing what the Prime Minister should make a speech about, sat down to write a speech and said: 'Let's have the Albury-Wodonga complex'. But it was not an original proposal. The proposal had already emanated out of Victoria. 
The Albury-Wodonga Development Bill and the complementary Bill dealing with financial assistance set the guidelines for one of our most worthwhile projects undertaken in 1972 and now followed through by the present Gov ernment. I acknowledge that the present Government has followed it through. There are problems implicit in the Bill - the question of how the land once acquired will be held, either as leasehold or freehold. It would appear that the Commonwealth Government is waiting the Else-Mitchell report on land tenure. I do not object to it waiting for the outcome of that inquiry. It will help us all in our debate. But I say quite unequivocally that I believe absolutely, explicitly and without qualification that all residential holdings ought to be freehold. If the land is not freehold it will not attract the support of people to the area whom we do hope to attract to it to make their homes and their lives in a particular area. 
There is the problem of involvement of local government in all these ventures. I note that there is no mention of this tier of government in the Albury-Wodonga Development Bill, except as an advisory council with no responsibilities as a link between the developmental authority and the residents. I believe that it is important to have regard of the needs of local government especially in areas which previously have developed a highly institutionalised system of local government, responsible as they are for the provision and implementation of very many services. These services are important in an economic and social sense. I believe the provision of services to the cost of land is of the ratio of four to one. I also believe that the Government, whether Federal or State, should give recognition to the existence and objectives of resident action groups provided these groups are essentially acting within the confines of their own municipality. I see the growth of dozens of action groups which purport to represent the residents, and yet in fact represent multivested interests whether these be politically motivated or are unions or developers insensitive to the expectations and aspirations of the actual residents. 
The proposed Growth Centres (Financial Assistance) Bill and the Land Commission (Financial Assistance) Bill extend the concept implicit in the Albury-Wodonga Bills. I do not fully support the concept of land commissions acting as land banks and holding land against possible rather than probable development. This is essentially a State responsibility. I know that both Western Australia and South Australia have enacted legislation whereas Victoria and New South Wales have quite different concepts. Those States have in mind a body which will acquire land as the land is needed. I would rather see the statutory authority, the Development Corporation, as the vehicle for control, having full power of acquisition over a designated area which can be seen by all the community as a denned plan, that is, a strategic action plan of achievement and not merely the taking of a great deal of land and putting it, so to speak, in a bank for future calling upon. 
I reiterate my complete support for the concepts of the need for planned decentralisation, and also for planned urban renewal and extension of sub-city centres or, to use the name that is preferred, the system cities. I note in an answer to a question on notice that the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  has yet to look in detail at this latter area of urban renewal. I would commend that he do so at an early opportunity and in cooperation with each of the States. Having said that, I should like to make a few comments on the actual legislation. 
Financial assistance to the States is tied tightly by the Federal Government. My Party's attitude is that grants under section 96 should be conceived in the context of specific grants as national purpose grants. They should give direction to the overall design but should, as the development proceeds, give more latitude in their use to the States and through them to local government bodies in the further planning of these areas. We must assume that all wisdom in this use of responsibility does not devolve in the central bureaucracy in Canberra. There is great wisdom in the States and in local government bodies and although some people may think they can walk on the waters of Lake Burley Griffin, that is not a widely held belief throughout Australia. 
We in the 2 Opposition Parties have not had all the time we needed to examine the Bills in detail. We should have liked more time, but that is as it may be. Specifically I would like to express - and I do not want this to be understood as more than I intended it to mean as a word - a caveat over some areas of the legislation which we will be examining further. I do not expect that if we find them unacceptable to us they would be unacceptable to the Government; I think it would be a matter of discussion. I am concerned to ensure that the parties understand clause 8, sub-clauses (2), (3) and (4) of the Albury-Wodonga Development Bill. The Minister will see that by sub-clause (2) the Corporation is given power to do all things necessary or convenient to be done for or in connection with, or as incidental to, the performance of its function. Its functions are contained in clause 8. Very few functions are enumerated and quite clearly this is because the function of land acquisition must be with the States, as it is in fact. 
That carries me on to sub-clause (3), which gives the Minister power, unqualifiedly and not subject to any supervision of the Parliament, to declare any State Act a complementary Act, which is then published in the Government Gazette. This has not been spelt out in any detail in the second reading speech and perhaps the Minister might provide some more information about that. Sub-clause (4) of clause 8 is in the following terms: 
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the Parliament that the Corporation may have and be subject to functions, powers and duties specified by an Act or part of an Act for the time being declared under sub-section (3) to be complementary to this Act. 
It all ties back and I believe it means - I should like the Minister to reply on this - that once this Bill is passed the Parliament as such will no longer have any capacity to observe what is happening and express views - except by way of the forms of the House, which are not very suitable for this purpose, as to the conduct and success of the development of the AlburyWodonga region. I would expect that these provisions will be contained in other legislation which will relate to other growth centres. 
The next matter I should like to refer to necessitates my citing clause 9 (1) of the Growth Centres (Financial Assistance) Bill which is in the following terms: 
A payment or advance to a State under this Act is subject to - 
such conditions, not inconsistent with this Act, as are agreed between Australia and the State; and 
such of the other conditions provided for by this Act  as  are applicable. 
I should like some information as to what is intended by the words 'as are applicable'. Clause 14 of the same Bill - there are comparable provisions in the Land Commissions (Financial Assistance) Bill - makes it quite clear that there is an extremely tight control over the use of land by the Commonwealth and that the conditions can be applied by the Minister with the concurrence of the Treasurer. There does not seem to be at that point any consultation between the Commonwealth and the States. I should like the Minister to take up that point if he would. 
The next point I should like to make is that loan funds are made available and are repayable after the expiration of 30 years, which seems a long time. However, in the context of the Albury-Wodonga complex it is a relatively short period. There is provision for the commencement of the repayment period to be deferred but there is no provision for a deferment of the repayment of the total of the loan after 30 years. My recollection is that a comparable provision in English legislation provides that loan funds are for 47 years. I should like the Minister to consider extending the time for repayment to 47 years or else an extension of the repayment finally when there has been deferment of the initial repayment. 
If the Minister would provide me with that information I should be grateful. The next point I wish to make is that there is quite a marked difference between grant money and loan money and the purposes to which they are put. It seems to me that as experience is gained in the Albury-Wodonga complex it may be necessary to alter attitudes as to what should be grant money and what should be loan money. I do not have an objection at this stage and I would not be wishing to suggest that there should be a change in the statute as it is an agreement between the Commonwealth and the States. However, as experience develops and if there is a need to change loan money into grant money I should like the Minister to indicate that he would be prepared to discuss it with the States. 
By way of summary, the Opposition supports the concepts basic to the Bills. We support the development of regional centres along the criteria set out by the Cities Commission; we support the need to plan rationally and renew the pre-existing urban areas; we support the need for involvement of local government and the recognition of the actions of legitimate relevant action groups. (Extension of time granted.) Finally, the Opposition supports the use of this plan for urban and regional development in the realisation of the maximum economic and social potential of Australia. These regional centres must not be State monuments to somebody's good idea, but an integrated reality into the fabric of a dynamic Australian community. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Cohen)  adjourned. 
asked the Minister representing the Special Minister of State, upon notice: 
Further to question No. 1068 and in light of the answer provided by the Minister and that provided by the Prime Minister in the House of (Representatives on 7 November 1973, has the Prime Minister instructed the Minister to provide a list of interdepartmental committees of which officers of his Department are members; if so, will he now provide me with such a list. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Following his answer to question No. 1064 and in the light of the Prime Minister's guarantee in the House on 7 November '1973 that the information will be made available, will he provide a list of the interdepartmental committees established since 2 December 1972 of which officers of his Department are members. 
My question is addressed to the Treasurer. In the last Budget, among a number of projections, the honourable gentleman said that Commonwealth Government spending this year would increase over last year by an amount of 18.9 per cent. Is the Treasurer able to say today what he expects the increase to be? Will it exceed the 18.9 per cent and if so by how much? 
 Mr Speaker- 
The Prime Minister &lt;Mr Whitlam) today for the umpteenth time misrepresented me about the education matter. The fact is that the Opposition parties have always held the view that there should be support for the Karmel Committee report in the full expenditure of money under the Karmel Committee recommendations. The Opposition made that perfectly clear in the debate in this House and I have made that clear in the debate in this House on grievance day last week. Anybody who continues any misrepresentation of that kind is doing so wilfully and maliciously. The Opposition supports the expenditure of S694m as recommended by the Karmel Com mittee report. That is perfectly clear. The Prime Minister said that I had a different policy from that of  Senator Rae  and the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  That is false and a misrepresentation, and if it is repeated it will be done so maliciously. Also what I have constantly said and I repeat now is that we want to see the expenditure of the Karmel money and, in addition to the expenditure of that money, we wish to see - at an' estimated total cost of not more than $5m per annum - every Australian child as a matter of justice and of equity attract to that child- 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation upon notice: 
Will the Minister provide a list of the interdepartmental committees, which have been established since 2 December 1972, of which officers of the Repatriation Department are members. 
asked the Minister for Science, upon notice: 
Will he provide a list of the interdepartmental committees, which have been established since 2 December 1972, of which officers of his Department are members. 
asked the Minister for External 
Territories, upon notice: 
Will he provide a list of the interdepartmental committees, which have been established since 2 December 1972, of which officers of his Department are members. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon  notice: 
Did he refer on 9 October 1973 to a report, that was compiled by Commonwealth and State officials 3 months ago, which includes recommendations on measures that could be adopted to contain inflation. 
If so, will he make copies of the report available. 
asked the Minister for Defence,  upon notice: 
Has he given consideration to providing a sum of money to CMF recruiting committees on an annual basis which might be used to promote recruiting campaigns through the media over and above the national advertising campaign. 
If so, what was the outcome of that consideration. 
If not, will he give consideration to the matter. 
asked the Minister for Services and Property, upon notice: 
Following his answer to question No. 1072 and in the light of the Prime Minister's guarantee in the House on 7 November 1973 that the information will be made available, will he provide a list of the interdepartmental committees established since 2 December 1972 of which officers of his Department are members. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Has legislation been drafted to give effect to the Government's pre-election pledge to introduce a Freedom of Information Bill. 
If so, has the legislation been considered by the Government. 
If not, when is it anticipated that the legislation will be ready.  i(4)  When does the Government intend to introduce such legislation into Parliament. 
asked the Minister for Second ary Industry, upon notice: 
Does his Department still have a Protection Policy Branch. 
Does a similar Branch or Division exist in the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. 
If so, what is the name of this Branch or Division in the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet, and what are its functions. 
Was the Protection Policy Branch from his Department recently transferred to the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. 
Have officers of the Protection Policy Branch of his Department been transferred or is it planned that they be transferred to the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. 
If so, how many officers are involved in this transfer. 
asked the Minister representing  the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
How many Aborigines are or will be involved in the operation of the Kildurk Station in the Northern Territory. 
What were the financial arrangements provided by the Commonwealth in order that the Aborigines could purchase the property at a cost of $829,000, i.e., what proportion was provided by way of grant, what proportion by way of loan, and on what terms. 
To whom were these moneys advanced. 
How many Aborigines will be involved in the operation of the Willowra Station. 
What were the financial arrangements provided by the Commonwealth in order that the Aborigines could purchase the property, i.e., what proportion was provided by way of grant, what proportion by way of loan, and on what terms. 
To whom were these moneys advanced. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Will he provide a list of the interdepartmental committees, which have been established since 2 December 1972, of which officers of his Department are members. 
asked the Minister for Second ary Industry, upon notice: 
Does he intend to establish an invention development corporation or commission. 
If so, what will be its functions. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Further to question No. 1090 and in light of the answer provided by him and that provided by the Prime Minister in the House of Representatives on 7 November 1973, has the Prime Minister instructed him to provide a list of inter-depertmental committees of which officers of his Department are members; if so, will he now provide me with such a list. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Following his answer to question No. 1090 and in the light of the Prime Minister's guarantee in the House on 7 November 1973 that the information will be made available, will he provide a list of the interdepartmental committees established since 2 December 1972 of which officers of his Department are members. 
asked the Minister for the Environment and Conservation, upon notice: 
Has there been a meeting between himself and State Nature and Conservation Ministers to discuss the formation of a Council of Nature Conservation Ministers. 
If so, what was the outcome of the meeting. 
If not, when is it expected that such a meeting will be held. 
asked the Minister for the En vironment and Conservation, upon notice: 
What establishment has been approved by the Public Service Board for the Bureau of Environmental Studies. 
What is the current staffing level of the Bureau including personnel who have been or are being employed on an on-brief or contract basis. 
 Let me say at the outset that I accept that what was purported to be written over the signature of the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Mathews)  was not his own letter and therefore I support totally the view that the matter should go to the Committee of Privileges. I believe that the person, whoever it might be, who perpetrated this acted despicably. I am glad to say that the matter has been exposed. I hope that the culprit will be identified and can be dealt with adequately, not merely by the forms of this House but, if they are available, by the forms of criminal proceedings. That having  been  said, I greatly regret that the honourable gentleman did not confine his remarks on the motion in the way that I have responded. I am tempted to respond in kind, but I will not do so. I am fed up with abuse being thrown backwards and forwards in this Parliament, and I will deal with the facts and nothing more. 
There is only one matter introduced by the honourable gentleman to which I will refer, and that is the question which he introduced as an argument concerning whether or not prices power would include wages. The honourable gentleman made an assertion of law, and I want to deal only with that because I do not think his assertion is correct. The way in which the honourable gentleman put it was that if prices power were granted it would not include power over wages because, as he put it, if the referendum on incomes were rejected the High Court would say that it had been rejected as incomes, including wages, and therefore wages could not be fitted into prices. As a matter of legal interpretation, that is erroneous. If the High Court were asked to interpret the meaning of the word 'prices' it would interpret it according to the ordinary rules of construction and on the basis of the ordinary  rules  of construction while it is not certain that it would include wages, it is nevertheless the opinion of most lawyers - as the Prime Minister acknowledges - that it would include wages. 
I had not intended to raise that matter but as it was put forward as argument by the honourable gentleman I had to respond to it. I will not respond to the rest of the matters. I return to where I commenced. The Opposition fully supports the reference of this matter to the Privileges Committee. I hope - in fact I feel confident - that the people of Australia in voting on Saturday will be in no way influenced by what was purported to be included in the letter. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I ask the Prime Minister: Did the Chinese Premier, Chou En-lai, tell him that the United States of America should not withdraw its forces hurriedly from South East Asia and the Western Pacific? Did the Chinese leader say that Washington would bear a heavy responsibility for the consequences of rapid disengagement from the area in the encouragement of Russian extension of influence? Is it not true that, by running down our defence forces, Australia is encouraging American withdrawal from the region, because we are seen to be irresponsible in not providing adequately for our own defence capacity, contrary to the concept of the Guam Doctrine? 
Yes. I have been informed that a Labor Party referendum advertisement being broadcast on commercial radio stations in Tasmania misrepresents me as a member of the Liberal Party in government last year and before that. The particular part which contains the misrepresenttaion is being spoken in these words: 
Remember the Liberal Party Government only tackled inflation by deliberately creating mass unemployment. 
I am informed that there are separate advertisements authorised by the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Barnard)  and the honourable members for Braddon  (Mr Davies),  Wilmot  (Mr Duthie),  Franklin  (Mr Sherry)  and Denison  (Mr Coates)  in their respective electorates. The allegation is false and while the advertisements continue to be read the mischief of the misrepresentation will be worsened. In addition, it may be that it is illegal as a contravention of section 48, sub-section 1, paragraph B of the Referendum (Constitution Alteration) Act, which prohibits publication or distribution of untrue or incorrect statements intended or likely to mislead any elector in his vote at a referendum. 
asked the Minister for Secondary Industry, upon notice: 
Will he provide a list of the interdepartmental committees which have been established since 2 December 1972, of which officers of his Department are members. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister in his capacity as the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Is it true that over recent weeks and months North Vietnamese forces in South Vietnam have been steadily built up and that North Vietnamese forces from Cambodia and North Vietnam have moved into South Vietnam? Is it also true that the North Vietnamese were last week clear aggressors against South Vietnam in taking the town of Kien Duc? Are such actions not completely contrary to the Paris peace agreements of January this year? If so, will the Prime Minister give an assurance that  Dr Cairns,  during his present visit to Hanoi, will give no commitment by Australia to provide further aid to North Vietnam or any form of trade concessions until North Vietnam is prepared to honour the Paris peace agreements and cease aggression in South Vietnam? Will he also ensure that  Dr Cairns  uses his foreign affairs expertise and his apparent considerable influence in Hanoi to urge the North Vietnamese Government to honour the Paris agreements? Finally does the Prime Minister agree with the comments attributed to  Dr Cairns  which relate to Australia's past with North Vietnam? 
The Prime Minister will recall that at first he refused to make available to me a list of interdepartmental committees which his Government had established and on which his separate departments were represented, explaining that the time and the expense involved in preparing such a list would be prohibitive. As two of the honourable gentlemen's colleagues - the Special 
Minister of State and the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs - have now informed me in answer to a question on notice that each of their Departments maintains a list of interdepartmental committees in which their Departments participate, will the Prime Minister now allow his two colleagues to make these lists available to me? 
 The terms of my letter were: 
The need for the Government to now acknowledge that it must adopt positive policies to halt inflation and should announce its proposals to obtain support from the States and the public. 
There can be no doubt whatever that the greatest economic problem that we have in Australia today is inflation. The referendum result on Saturday disclosed very good common sense on the part of the Australian people. They identified the nature of the problem and also the remedy of the problem. The remedy of the problem is in the terms contained in my letter to you,  Mr Speaker.  In this inflationary situation the Government asked for greater powers. We proposed positive policies, and there can be no doubt that the Australian people decided that we should get on with the job by adopting positive policies. There is no point in the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  or his Government saying: 'We cannot do anything about inflation because you would not give us the powers'. That is the attitude of a small spoilt boy who, being given out in a cricket match, takes his bat home. Nobody will be prepared to put up with that situation. The Government now has the task of getting on with the job. 
There are plenty of powers which the Government can exercise. It has the clear responsibility for economic leadership in Australia. The sooner it gets on with that job, the better it will be for the Australian people. We have already had months and months of procrastination with the Government taking no real steps against inflation but constantly looking to the future and saying: 'If you will only give us the power'. Well, the Government has not been given the power. Months have been wasted. Let us not waste any more months. Let us get on with the job because, if something is not done about inflation very soon, the damage that Australia will suffer will be so great that it will take a very long time before we can recover from it. 
It is interesting to remember a comment made by the Prime Minister on Thursday last. When I talked about a short term freeze as a circuit breaker, he said that politicians who did that might get electrocuted. I know who was electrocuted last Saturday and it was not that attitude that argued for positive policies. Before the referendum, in Hobart the Prime Minister when questioned as to what he would do if the referendum seeking these powers failed, said .that the Government would need to use the existing powers more effectively. Those words were spoken a couple of weeks ago. They were accurate words. That is what we now ask: We ask that the existing powers be used more effectively. 
We want the policy set out so that the Australian people - the States and the consumers - can know what it is. This Government now must use those powers as they have been used by previous governments. In the decade of the fifties and the decade of the sixties, Australia had an annual average inflation rate of 3 per cent, and it had full employment because unemployment was, on the average, just under 1.5 per cent in those 2 decades. We had full employment and we had tolerable inflation. Of course, everybody would want to get rid of inflation totally. This is not realistic. What we have to achieve is tolerable inflation. If we do not achieve tolerable inflation, we will have immense trouble. 
The sorts of troubles that inflation brings are these: It completely erodes the savings of people, whether those savings have been lifetime savings, the savings of half a working life or the savings of people who are just on the threshold of their working life. In the latter case I speak -of the time when people are looking for a house and saving money to that end. They find that as fast as they save their money, inflation overtakes its value and reduces its purchasing power; at the same time, they must also face the problem of the value of land increasing and the cost of building rising also. According to some figures published in the Press today the cost of constructing a house valued at $15,000 has risen by $1,500 this year. 
Young people cannot bear the effects of inflation. Inflation will have immense economic and, more importantly perhaps, immense social consequences for the family unit and for the peace and happiness of the young family. What inflation does is to relocate capriciously power in the work force. If a person is a member of a powerful union which by its actions can pull out trains, pull out trams, pull out a means of supplying power, pull out bread baking or, specifically, the Transport Workers' Union pulling out those who supply fuel, or if one is a member of any of the other powerful trade union organisations in our community, that person can protect himself against inflation. He can do so by creating more inflation, by demanding bigger wage increases and spreading the cost of those increases across the community. That is what power is in an inflationary situation. But if one is an ordinary person - say, a clerk, a member of the Public Service, a carpet layer or a curtain hanger; just one of the ordinary people engaged in tertiary industry in Australia - one does not have that power because one is not in the special privileged class of belonging to a powerful trade union. 
 I am reminded of pensioners, people on fixed incomes and superannuitants. They are the people who are ravaged by inflation. We must do something about inflation. Inflation is not just a matter of excess demand although that certainly is one of the major causes of it at the moment. There is inflationary expectation with people taking action, which they otherwise would not take, in order to protect themselves in the future. We must look at this matter in terms of rising costs, rising wages and rising prices. The Government says that the inflation has been imported. What an extraordinary concept to put. Can one imagine that all of those busy people in the other countries of the world which, despite their incomes and wages policies have so much inflation, are labelling some of this inflation To Australia with love' and sending it out here? It is a nonsensical proposition for the Government to say that we are getting inflation from overseas. 
No one swallowed that argument, as I am reminded by my friend, the honourable member for Petrie. 
 He would know a lot better than the honourable member who interjects. He thought that there would be a 'Yes' vote. The honourable member for Petrie never thought that. If it was a correct proposition that inflation was imported then the way to handle it would have been to correct the exchange rate. What the Government has done has been to revalue the Australian dollar by 30 per cent in less than a year. If the Government is so good at handling imported inflation - if that is what we have - by revaluing the currency, how is it that we still have inflation running at 14 per cent? 
The Government reduced the tariff by 25 per cent, but we still have inflation. What other measures has the Government taken to tackle inflation? It has raised the interest rate by  2i  per cent, but it has done nothing else and we still have inflation. When are we to have some action from the Government that does tackle inflation? The rate of inflation has accelerated. It was 4.5 per cent in 1972 before the era of a socialist, centralist Labor Government in Canberra. In the March quarter in annual terms inflation was over 8 per cent. In the June quarter it rose to 13 per cent and in the September quarter it rose to 14 per cent. If we measure the rate of inflation from September of last year to September of this year we find that the rate has gone up by 10.6 per cent. There is no point in the Treasurer's saying that one cannot multiply by four the rate for one quarter. If we take the figures from September to September - that is over a period of 12 months - we find that the rate of inflation is in double figures and is rising. 
One wonders whether the Government wants to get the inflation rate down. The latest wage figures show that average weekly earnings increased by 14 per cent in the last year, and they are now increasing at an annual rate of over 20 per cent. In the Budget the Treasurer realised that income tax collections this year would be SI, 100m more than last year. This was based on an increase of 13 per cent in average weekly earnings. The increase is likely to be much more than that and the consequence is that the Australian people will pay over $400m extra in direct income tax. 
As my colleague the honourable member for Sturt says, the Government has a vested interest. If this massive spending does take place, the more money that the Government collects the shorter will be the surplus. The Treasurer argues that if he increases income tax collections enough by inflation he will have a balanced Budget and he will try to pretend that we do not have inflation at all. The main cause of the increase is undoubtedly the excessive expenditure in the public sector. The Treasurer said in the Budget that this expenditure would be 18.9 per cent greater this year than it was last year. I asked the Treasurer a question about this matter the other day and he said he did not have the monthly figures. I wish that the 
Treasurer would ask the Treasury to produce the monthly figures to him because 'they are produced to everyone else who wants them. I cannot believe that the Treasury is withholding the figures from the Treasurer. Public spending is likely to be 25 per cent higher this year than it was last year. The Australian Labor Party has always said that it believes in cheap interest rates. The fact is that today interest rates are dearer in Australia than they have been since the Battle of Waterloo, and perhaps interest rates will be the Government's Waterloo. The long term bond rate, which was inherited by the Government at 6 per cent, is now up to 8.5 per cent. The short term bond rate is 8.07 per cent. People cannot borrow from permanent building societies for housing purposes at under  9i  per cent, and this rate is likely to be over 10 per cent at any time. 
The Government's policy of squeezing the private sector has caused inflation to rise. If one squeezes the private sector one is taking away the wealth producing capacity of the community. The public sector spends - and do not make any mistake about this - what it collects from the private sector. If the private sector is wealthy and producing it can be taxed and that tax money can be distributed. But if we squeeze the private sector we have not only a shortage of jobs but also a shortage of wealth. This is precisely the course of action in which this Government is engaged. I would like to list the positive policies that the Government should adopt. First of all it should decrease Government spending. The Government has to set priorities- at the moment it has none - in co-operation with the States. When the Government has set its priorities it can then talk to the States, explain those priorities and get the States to co-operate with it in maintaining them in a proper and correct manner. The people are not prepared to pay the costs of continued excessive spending. The present rate of income tax is becoming so repressive that it is taking away all incentive from the Australian people. As a result the government public sector spending will fall. There should be a conference between the Commonwealth, the States, employers, unions and consumers to get consensus and cooperation in a national program. One cannot pass a law which says that there shall be no more inflation; one must go about this problem and formulate positive policies in respect of which the whole of the Australian people will co-operate. 
Most of the Premiers of Australia, certainly  Sir Robert  Askin,  Mr Hamer  and  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  say that they want a conference to discuss co-operation. They have always said that they would be willing to come to any conference.  Mr Whitlam  had a conference with the Premiers last May but he has not had one since. At the last three meetings of Premiers he would not let them talk about inflation. With the co-operation of all parties the Government could impose a short term freeze not because it would cure inflation but because it would inject a circuit breaker into the inflationary expectation. There must be reduced government spending to allow a reduction in interest rates, which could be reduced now if there were a reduction in government spending. As the effect of that reduced spending was felt interest rates could be reduced further still to the level which is reasonable both to the persons lending money and to the persons borrowing money. 
Lower taxes will need to be considered in a restructuring of the income tax scale. Last year in my. Budget I restructured the scale so that there was a 10 per cent tax reduction. I thought that the effect of this move would last 3 or 4 years. The fact is that inflation has steam-rollered my plan and the amount saved last year has already been wasted because of the inflationary spiral that this Government has created. Clearly the higher the income tax the higher the claims of people will be for higher wages and this extra claim for wages is an inflationary pressure on its own. In the long term we need strong trade practices legislation and increased productivity. There must be an examination of the tariff. Such an examination was initiated by the previous Government when it was in office. I believe that we made a correct decision when we decided to take this action. We want short term measures taken now and stated. We want long term measures clearly stated by the Government. But it will do neither. We must have the Government say that there is to be less industrial unrest because that is a major source of dislocation and of shortages of goods. The people have called for positive policies. The Government has a duty to implement them now, and if it does implement them now it will have the support of the Opposition parties, industry, commerce, the consumers and the public. This national issue should be resolved. 
The Liberal Party asserts that it is a fundamental right of every Australian to receive the best possible health care and we are determined, as Opposition Parties to achieve it. Because of this the Opposition Parties are opposed to the Health Insurance Bill and consequently to the Health Insurance Commission Bill which sets up the mechanism for the implementation of the Labor Party's health scheme. 
The most important principle to aim for in any health scheme is the interest of the consumer of the commodity, that is, the patient. The patient can so easily be overlooked, especially when a couple of economists get together to work out what the health scheme ought to be. The Liberal Party wants to maintain the present health scheme which has been built over the years into one of the world's best. The scheme needs further improvement in specific areas. Its provisions will be improved for pensioners and those who have long chronic illnesses as well as the more generally recognised areas of socio-economic need. For those 8 per cent not now covered, arrangements can be made to provide health care without converting the 92 per cent already covered into a compulsory scheme. The full details of these arrangements will be spelt out at an appropriate early date. 
The scheme proposed by the Government has to be looked at against the background of its birth. We have the remarkable situation that a Government, which ought to have as its primary task the delivery of the best possible health service to the people of Australia, has managed to achieve a scheme of which the medical profession will not have a bar. The Government has formulated a scheme of which the hospitals, especially the charitable, religious and country hospitals, will not have a bar. That is the background against which the Government has introduced this scheme and has asked the people of Australia to support it. Have honourable members ever heard such nonsensical reasoning, that if the people of Australia are to be well served they have to be well served in health by an antagonistic hospital and medical service? The public of Australia does not know the way in which the delivery of this service will be provided. 
Clearly there should be some degree of government involvement - even intervention - in the appropriate place in health services. However, this should be done within the context of the existing voluntary health benefits scheme. This was the basis upon which the report of the Commonwealth Committee of Inquiry into Health Insurance - the Nimmo Committee - was based in 1969. Doctors Deeble and Scotton then felt it was worthwhile enough as a scheme for them to contribute to that inquiry at that time. One must remember that Doctors Deeble and Scotton have been propagating their views for at least 6 years. They are economists. The problem is that in a complex area such as health there needs to be other views - views of those people who actually work in the field of medicine - to offset those of just 2 men. We must not be blinded by the circumscribed views of those 2 men. No matter how selfenlightened they are, they do not hold all wisdom in this matter. 
The basis of the scheme hinges upon the funding of the scheme. That was their commencement point. The patient did not come into consideration until very much later in the picture. The Labor Government will impose a 1.35 per cent tax levy on taxable income. Obviously, it is not deductible. However, the total received from the 1.35 per cent levy contributes only 41 per cent of the total cost of the scheme, on present calculations. The rest - $508m in 1974-75 - comes from the Consolidated Revenue Fund. Money does not get into Consolidated Revenue by sheer chance. It gets into Consolidated Revenue by tax raisings, whether they be direct or indirect. It is an obvious strategem to deceive the public into believing that they will not be paying higher taxes, and it must be exposed for what it is - a pretence. Calling it a levy does not change its character one little bit. 
In a time of escalating costs, especially in the hospital and medical area, it must be assumed that if this proposed scheme is passed the contribution from Consolidated Revenue will rise very greatly. The levy will become less and less relevant to meeting the real costs if it is maintained at the present level. So for the Australian public to have this scheme forced upon them they must accept an increase in direct taxation as well as the heaviness of the levy on taxable income they earn. In this area of total cost the proposed Labor Party scheme has no credible defence to offer at all. Taking a -line on similar schemes, this emerges as a massive worry to the responsible Opposition. It should also be a worry to the Government, although it seems to shrug it off. It will not be very long before the public - the taxpayers - are very greatly concerned about it. 
The Canadian scheme, and particularly the Ontario scheme, is the most similar to that proposed by Doctors Deeble and Scotton. The Canadians are greatly worried by the prospect of increased costs. They predict that the costs of the scheme will rise to 14 per cent of gross national expenditure. They have instituted a committee of inquiry to see whether these can be hobbled. The Ontario Health Minister - the man who will be running the scheme, the equivalent of our Minister for Social Security - is quoted as having said about the scheme: It is up to the politicians to reform the monster before it bankrupts the economy and destroys itself. Why not learn from experience rather than blindly institute a similar system in Australia in the name of socialist ideology? 
We are told to look at Sweden. The Scandinavian countries have long been considered the social laboratories of the world. There is hardly a Minister in the Government who has not been to Scandinavia so that he can bring back to us the lessons of fine living. I wonder whether the Ministers have taken notice of the way in which the electors of those countries have put socialist governments in those countries out of office. There is a whole host of Labor people who keep talking about the example of Scandinavian countries. They should remember what happened in the elections in Sweden and Denmark this year. The electors have inflicted stinging rebuffs at the ballot box to those politicians who have sought to push the welfare state so far that it has become an intolerable tax burden to the people and so that all the other spending in the public sector is constrained by what is going on there. In Sweden there is a mandatory health insurance scheme. There is a fee for service for doctors, and the hospitals consume 50 per cent of the expenditure on health. The proportion of gross national expenditure in Sweden has risen from 3.2 per cent 20 years ago to 8.1 per cent now. It is clear that there is a marked increase in the expenditure on health when a mandatory health insurance system is linked to fee for service arrangements and a high level of hospital expenditure. 
The Labor Party claims that the major thrust of its scheme is to provide a universal coverage in a more equitable manner. The figure of those not covered is an elusive figure with much argument about it. Quite naturally, the Government has hit upon an artificially low figure of 87.6 per cent. I have no doubt at all that the number covered by health insurance is 92 per cent. Let us make this clear - that is 92 per cent covered by health insurance, but 100 per cent are covered by health treatment. Is it to be imagined that a person who is run over in the street is left to lie there until his insurance is checked? Quite the opposite; he is taken to the hospital and given treatment. If somebody is not insured and is ill, is he to lie in bed and take a Bex, as honourable members opposite were saying last year in their famous 'It's Time' health pamphlet? What will happen is that he will go to the outpatients' clinic or the casualty department at a major public hospital. So 100 per cent of people are covered. 
There is an interesting question on the notice paper in which I asked the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  to tell me just who are uninsured. The question remains unanswered. Certainly the Minister has no comprehensive knowledge of who those people are that are uncovered by health insurance. How can he define the uninsured if he has no idea of who they are as individuals? It is assumed that they are in thelow socioeconomic groups, but the Minister does not know. He does not know their motives or reasons for being uninsured, nor does he know whether compulsion would solve the problem. There are itinerant people and there are those who have difficulty adjusting to decision taking in a complex society such as we live in today. I have the feeling that there is also a group who might be called the young middle income group 'gamblers' who are not insured because they feel confident that they will not get sick or have an accident. They are prepared to take the risk that they will not get sick or have an accident. 
There is a separate group of people who feel that they should not be forced to take action such as this when they choose not to. Where is the voice of the small'l' liberals whom the Government as a socialist party pretended it represented when it was seeking government but whom it has now cast off all aspiration to represent? There is another small group who are uninsured - the very wealthy. They undertake to cover their total expenses for medical and health services themselves. Ironically, under the Government's scheme these very wealthy people will now have the major part of their fees, which they now pay themselves, paid for them out of Consolidated Revenue. The Liberal Party is determined to maximise the coverage of the health scheme. It will strengthen and simplify the subsidised medical benefits plan. It will also provide assistance in consultation with the States for the areas to which the uninsured tend to go - that is, to the casualty treatment wards and the outpatients' sections of the hospitals. 
It is especially important to make provision for community health services where there are now few, such as in some of the northern and western suburbs of Melbourne, some of the western suburbs of Sydney and certainly rural areas. But it is too simplistic to believe that a change in funding arrangements will automatically change the health care expectations of the great majority of the Australian people. Hospitals provide a one-stop service for medical and para-medical services and very many people will use them in this way for their personal convenience, especially those in the inner suburban areas, whereas the great majority of those people living in the suburbs maintain that close doctor-patient relationship which has existed for a long time. Recent studies have indicated that people, in the absence of general practitioner services, use public hospitals for simple medical problems as well as the more complicated medical problems. I wish to emphasise that it is important to support and bolster the general practitioner as he will remain the first line health care deliverer to the people of Australia. Make no mistake about it. The general practitioner delivering the first line of health care must be backed up by the specialist medical practitioner. If we are to have a scheme which is not accepted by the general practitioner, the specialist and the private community philanthropic and country hospitals, we are going to be in a terrible mess trying to provide health services to the people. 
Together with planned allocation of paramedical and nursing services, I believe that areas of need can be reflected without a gigantic change in health care funding arrangements and without alteration in the basic doctor-patient relationship. In any system there must be checks and balances to establish a ceiling to costs. It is important in any fee for service system that a medical fees tribunal be set up with an independent chairman and that fees are not set only by the Minister, unilaterally. I advocate the establishment of a medical fees tribunal consisting of an independent chairman and representatives of the Government, the Australian Medical Association and the consumer of the medical health service - that is, the patient - to establish the fees. Once established, there will be involvement of the medical profession and it should be left to this body to achieve fee adherence by the doctors. I have full confidence after discussions with the AMA that the medical profession will agree with a government to achieve predictability of costs of the medical health service. It stands to reason that if one is involved in determining equity in fees, the assurances of the national body representing the medical practitioners should be accepted in the first instance. 
The Government seeks to implement bulk billing on the assumption that this must become easier for the medical profession to adopt over a period of time. It is in fact an insidious way of removing the necessity of patient contribution by de facto absorption of his contribution into that part of the payment which the Government holds, because it is theoretically saving the individual doctor his own cost of billing. In fact, it will mean that the patient will make no contribution whatever at the time that he seeks that medical attention. In a fee for service scheme, if there are to be checks and balances on runaway costs, there must be a retention of some form of patient contribution. There is no medical scheme in the world that has not found the necessity for some form of patient contribution. Anybody who has a recollection of the English medical scheme as it was introduced 20 years ago will remember that people from all over the world went to England, received their free medical treatment, free dentures and cosmetic operations and whatever else they liked - when they felt it was time to receive medical services, off they went - and the British taxpayers just could not stand the strain. Labour governments had to introduce patient contributions, just as did subsequent Conservative governments in England. I repeat that it is my belief that if we are to hold down the fees to a level which is capable of being handled by the Australian community, there will have to be patient contribution. It is important that there be deterrents to the abuse of the health scheme either by the patient or by the medical practitioner. It is very important that we include in the scheme safeguards against abuses by the medical practitioner. These deterrents must not unduly complicate the provision and availability of health care. 
Hospitals are fundamental to any health scheme. Here, needs will become more apparent on a national basis in co-operation with the States following the establishment of a hospitals and health services commission. It is important in the hospital area where health care is the most complex and expenditure the greatest that one equates the cost of hospital service to benefits accruing to the persons covered. This may be achieved by providing hospitals with incentives to contain expenditure. One possibility to achieve this is that government hospitals might be allowed to retain greater control over their expenditure mix. This may induce certain hospitals to underspend in one or other area, but it is important to leave hospitals with certain autonomy so that their cost saving efficiency will be enhanced. It is important that there be incentive schemes to improve standards in management and in so doing, the use of resources. Importantly, the Liberal Party would endeavour to shift costs involved in acute hospital care to more intensive domiciliary care of patients. This involves concentration of effort in the rehabilitation sector of medicine, whether this be psychiatric or physical rehabilitation. We stress this not only in terms of economic argument; it is also better health care for the patient to be treated in a friendly and familiar environment. 
Private hospitals run by religious groups and allied organisations are  ian  indispensible and totally necessary part of our health delivery system. As such, they should not be cavalierly destroyed. We will not let that happen. The Association of Medical Superintendents in a letter dated 10 October pointed out how there will be a great shortage of standard beds in public hospitals if this new scheme comes into operation. It is quite clear where these beds will have to come from and that is from the private sector. As soon as the Government moves into the private sector, to the religious, the charitable and the community hospitals, there will be a destruction of the private hospital system .and we will not permit that to happen. 
The totality and thrust of the DeebleScotton plan is a move by a socialist government towards complete nationalisation of the health care system in Australia. All the tools to achieve it are present, in bulk billing, in the attitude towards private hospitals and in the overall method of funding. It will be said that private medical and private hospital insurance will be allowed to be retained. However, the basic medical and hospital 'benefits will be determined by a monopolistic government fund. (Extension of time granted) Total health care expectations cannot be accommodated within the scheme proposed by the Government. Private funds will have fewer subscribers and will he very expensive even if taxation concessions are retained. The Government insurance scheme will put immense pressure on the economic viability of private insurance. Once competition of private end public health care is removed, another constraint on the cost of the scheme as a percentage of national expenditure will be removed. 
At present, the approximate appropriation for health care services is 5.3 per cent of gross national expenditure. This is recognised in industrialised Western societies as a reasonable percentage. The Deeble-Scotton scheme will cost more and the increase of benefits to the patient will remain obscure. Certainly it will mean less choice, reduced doctor to patient relationship and a vastly increased public cost, and for the great majority, intolerably in creased individual cost, through levy tax and private insurance. The Government asserts that it has a mandate on this issue. It has not. When it went to election last year, it said that it was going to have a national health scheme and one of its first decisions in government was to set up the Deeble-Scotton committee to tell it what it ought to do. It then produced a Green Paper. After we saw the Green Paper, we had a succession of statements by the Minister for Social Security saying what he would not do in relation to what was contained in the Green Paper. He did not know then and we did not know - nobody knew - until the White Paper, followed a fortnight later by this legislation, what the Government would do. How can the Government have a mandate for it? It was never understood by the Australian Labor Party at the time of the election, much less by the public. I challenge the Government to go to the polls on this issue. We will say to the public that the present scheme is the basis of the best service and I feel confident that they will agree with us. The scheme can and will be amended to maximise coverage of all the Australian community and to deliver the best health service. We have positive views in the field of health delivery and we are not opposed to the principles of a hospital and health services commission which attempts to set up a mechanism to examine the needs of a health delivery system. We are opposed to a scheme which is designed to set up an open-ended financial commitment in priority over the delivery of the best health care to the people of this country, and this is what the Labor Party's scheme would do. The expectations of the vast majority of Australians will not be achieved by this Government's scheme. We, the Opposition Parties, are more concerned about health than is the Government and we are more responsible, and on this basis we will be glad to conduct an election campaign on the issue. 
asked the Minister for Miner als and Energy, upon notice: 
Following his answer to question No. 1082 and in the light of the Prime Minister's guarantee in the House on 7 November 1973 that the information will be made available, will he provide a list of the interdepartmental committees established since 2 December 1972 of which officers of his Department are members. 
asked the Special Minister of State, upon notice: 
Does the Department of the Special Minister of State maintain a record of interdepartmental committees in which it participates. 
If not, then how is the Minister aware of all the interdepartmental consultations in which his Department is involved through interdepartmental committees. 
Will he ensure that such a list is in future available to him. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Does the Department of Aboriginal Affairs maintain a record of inter-departmental committees in which it participates. 
If not, then how is the Minister aware of all the inter-departmental consultations in which his Department is involved through inter-departmental committees. 
Will the Minister ensure that such a list is in future available to him. 
asked the Minister representing  the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
Will the Minister provide a list of the interdepartmental committees which have been established since 2 December 1972 of which officers of the Department of the Media are members. 
There seems to be a rather strange pattern building up in relation to the reference of matters to the House of Representatives Standing Committee of Privileges. Over the years that I have seen these matters arise it has been customary for the honourable member who asserts that there has been a breach of privilege to raise the matter and for the  Speaker  then to investigate to establish whether there is a prima facie breach of privilege. It has been the custom of the House, upon the receipt of a statement by the  Speaker  that the matter constitutes a prima facie breach, to refer it on that basis to the Privileges Committee. 
The Minister for Health is not succeeding in his portfolio so he should not try to help me on a matter of privilege. If the process continues of a matter 'being moved forthwith - I am putting this is in a proper way and not in a manner critical of the Postmaster-General  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  - the House at a finger snap's notice must decide by vote whether to refer the matter to the Privileges Committee. I think that the House is entitled to have time to consider the matter. It is entitled to have a report from the  Speaker,  presumably based on some advice from the Clerks, before the motion is voted upon. For instance, the Minister said that the 'Australian' newspaper intercepted the telex message; 'but, from the way in which he put it in the House, it did not intercept the telex message; the telex message was sent to it. If an error was made - 
The Minister told the House that it was sent to the wrong telex number. It was sent to the wrong telex number and therefore it came into the possession of the newspaper. But to say that it was intercepted is quite clearly a misuse of the word 'intercepted'. The next point is that my understanding of the way in which privilege operates is that a breach of privilege occurs if there is an attempt to influence a member of Parliament in the discharge of his duties as a member of Parliament, and consequently it could operate in respect of a Minister as Minister. Was this an attempt to influence the Minister in the discharge of his duties? We have not heard enough about the matter. We do not even know what the telex message was, what was quoted from it in the article referred to, the way in which it was used, or how it was put to the disadvantage of the Minister. 
When I rose to speak in order to raise this point, I realised that what I am saying is reinforced by the action of the Government because, when I raised the point on the sheer question of the protection of the privilege of this House, I found an array of interjections from the Government side which made it appear as though the Government was approaching this matter on a party political basis. One thing to which I will not contribute in this House and to which my Party will not contribute in this House- 

 Mr Lionel Bowen - On a point of order,  Mr Speaker,  I want to make it clear that I have not consulted any other members of the Government. The matter was brought to my attention only at 11 o'clock and I have had no opportunity to discuss it with anybody. I ask that the suggestion that' it is party political be withdrawn. (Honourable members interjecting) - 
The Minister for Social Security said earlier this year that, if the rate of growth in average weekly earnings of 11.3 per cent did not abate, the Government would increase the promised increase of SI. 50 twice a year for pensioners. The latest movement in the average weekly earnings for the September quarter shows a 5i per cent increase in average weekly earnings and indicates an annual rate much in excess of 11.3 per cent - indeed as high as 20 per cent. Will the Minister now take action to ensure that pensioners will not continue to be helpless victims of the Government's inflation and that their standard of living will not be allowed to continue to drop? 
This Bill is part of an arrangement made. We know that the numbers are going to be in support of what is put, and what I wish to say here I will say for the States Grants (Schools) Bill, which I take it is next on the notice paper. We are not going to pursue here what was pursued in the Senate this afternoon. What was said there by the Liberal Party spokesman on education matters will stand for us here and the Hansard report will be available for everybody to see in the morning. Quite clearly the numbers will be against us and, that being so, I will not debate it now. However, I want just to reiterate. these 2 points: This Schools Commission Bill is a Bill that is designed to serve this community for a very long time into the future and if people assume that this Parliament, or this Government, is going to turn out to be the sole repository of wisdom on schools and education then they are making a very serious error. 
There are 2 branches of amendments made to the Schools Commission Bill; one deals with identifying the persons who will constitute the Commission and the other deals with the powers of the Commission. The arguments have been well traversed. What we wanted in the identification of the members of the Com mission was that people concerned with education should be members of that Commission, because if we get a situation in Australia where there is only one authority - only one branch - of education learning then it is not going to be to the advantage of Australia, Australians and future generations, and that was behind our amendments. In fact the amendments in relation to the identification of people on the Commission were moved by the Democratic Labor Party in the Senate and we supported them. Those who moved them have now departed from them. Government members find that laughable; it is a clear indication of where the principles of the Labor Party lie, that they can laugh about such a matter, and if that needs to go on the record and if we need to have a government so bereft of principle it is a great pity indeed. The other branch of the amendments dealt with the powers of the Commission and on that matter we put our views and they succeeded. They will no longer succeed. We understand the way in which this happened and we regret that it did happen. 
The Liberal Party will oppose this Bill and will oppose the amendments to the message that was sent from the Senate. We will continue to oppose them because we feel that it is right to do so. For many years a campaign was waged to achieve justice for the school children of this country. There were many people who, in the early days when it was dangerous to do so, asserted that every child in this country was entitled to equality and to justice. Many people supported that. Many of the people who did it in the days when it was dangerous to do it still survive here, and they will continue to survive here because the principle that every child in this country should attract a sum of money as of right, regardless of the school to which the parents choose to send the child, is right. If that principle is abandoned, it will be a sorry day for the Australian people and for the future of Australian education. This Party - the Liberal Party - insists that that principle of the right of every child to receive a per capita grant should be maintained. 
There is another principle that lives alongside it, and we subscribe totally to that other principle. It is that in addition to the per capita grant to every child Government funds should be made available on the basis of need. Those 2 principles should live side by side. Indeed, that was the intention of the Government when it set up the Karmel Committee. The terms of reference of the Karmel Committee stated: 'What additional funds should be given?' The then existing appropriation was on a per capita basis. The terms of reference related to additional funds to meet needs. That is what was intended and, indeed, that is probably the way the Karmel Committee set about its inquiry. But in the Karmel Committee report a phasing out of assistance for a certain number of children in this community was recommended. We were unwilling to accept it. It so happenes that the Government was unwilling to accept the Karmel Committee report and said that there would be no phasing out; that the per capita grant would be cut off. The Government introduced a Bill to cut off the per capita grant. Now it cringes back into this chamber tonight and says that it will provide a per capita grant. This has been done because the Labor Party was in the midst of very serious internal difficulties on this matter. 
There is a very great religious bigotry on the other side of the chamber. One must have religious bigotry to be prepared to abandon the principle of a per capita grant for every child in this community. If one did not have religious bigotry one would recognise the justice, the equity and the equality of the principle. Not only is there religious bigotry on the part of the Government but there also are the relics of class warfare still living from the Depression. The Government was prepared to bring in a Bill providing for an expenditure of S694m. What has it done now? It has come into this chamber and said: 'You cannot have the $8m which would preserve that equity principle, but you can have $6.5m. In other words, you can have 85 per cent of the principle, but not 100 per cent'. The Government, in its cowardice, realised that it was on a hook. It was prepared to spend $6. 5m of the taxpayers' money to get itself off its own hook of bigotry and social class warfare. That is the way the Government approached it. 
From the outset of this debate the Government attempted to misrepresent. The first misrepresentation was that all of us in the Country Party and the Liberal Party opposed the expenditure of $694m. That was not true; it could not survive and it did not survive. The next misrepresentation was that we proposed to increase the expenditure by SI 14m. That was not true; it could not survive and it did not survive. Then the Government came down to reality. The reality was an expenditure of $8m. What the Government is doing is acknowledging our rightness to the extent of 87.5 per cent. It has not the courage to go the other 12.5 per cent. It may be said that if this Bill were not passed there would be no money for schools at the commencement of next year. That is the way the argument is put. But that is a false argument. The fact is that the Government, having come within $1.5m of the preservation of this principle for which people fought for 15 years, is prepared, for the sake of SI. 5m, to abandon its principles. It is prepared to spend $6.5m as a bribe to the Australian public. But it is prepared to stop short by $1.5m, knowing that the principle is right. 
There are men on the other side of the chamber who know it and who have fought for it - I am prepared to acknowledge that they fought courageously for that principle - and they will not go home from this place tonight happy men. Once they have sold their principles they will always be suspect to sell their principles. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  as he now is - the Leader of the Opposition as he then was - and the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley),  as he now is - the honourable member for Fremantle - both made promises last year that there would be no cut in any existing grant to any child. In February of this year, a time when they were in Government, the Minister for Education, in a letter to the Secretary of the Parents and Friends Federation of Victoria, stated: 
No non-government school will suffer as a result of the Government's initiatives. 
Non-government schools have suffered. It is a clear broken promise. The acceptance of this compromise indicates that the Government does not want a double dissolution. It is perfectly clear that it does not want a double dissolution. It is prepared to use $6.5m of the taxpayers' funds to avoid a double dissolution. The Government knows that it would have looked foolish, as it indeed now looks foolish, in that as a government it has come within $1.5m or 87.5 per cent of the principle and there it stops because it dare not have a debate in Caucus. If there were a double dissolution it would be quite clear that the 2 parties seeking government on the one side would be saying 'We will spend $694m according to the Karmel Committee report, full stop', and we on the other side would be saying. We will spend $694m according to the Karmel Committee report and we will establish forever the principle that every child in Australia is entitled to a per capita grant'. If we had a double dissolution the issues would not be just this narrow issue, although I .am prepared to fight an election on that issue; but the real issues would be defence and foreign policy. The Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  in North Vietnam is saying- 
The issues would include inflation, taxation, the development of this great country and what is not happening in it today, health, the Australian Industry Develop- ment Corporation Bill, centralism, socialism, pensioners and their plight in this inflationary situation and the industrial situation. Those are the issues. Our principles are right and  fie  stand by them. We seek a basic pupil grant to all school students in Australia. The base rates of $104 for secondary school students and $62 for primary school students that we seek were 20 per cent of the cost of educating a pupil in a government school last year. 
The promises made by the Prime Minister and by the Minister for Education were that there would be no deduction from any benefit that was previously being paid. That is why we have left the figures at those rates. But the fact is that it ought to be a principle that 20 per cent of the cost of educating a student at any government school should be given to independent schools. It is very important to those great range of systemic schools that are run by the Catholic Church that they have that principle established. It is a principle that the people running those schools are very anxious to maintain. Tonight, by the action of the Government, this principle is being abandoned. I want to say in clear, unequivocal language that when we are returned to government that principle will be restored. 
I can speak, not only on behalf of the Liberal Party on this issue, but also on behalf of the Australian Country Party. Whatever has been the outcome of the negotiations that have gone on, however the members of the Country Party vote tonight, I assert that they will stand by the principle that every child should attract to itself as a matter of right and of equity and of justice a per capita payment for education. We stress that categories A, B, C and D schools represent a wide range of schools in the independent school system. They are not all wealthy schools but simply schools caught up by the Karmel Committee formula. That Karmel Committee formula has never been through this House. It has not even been through the Government's Cabinet. That formula was established solely by the Karmel Committee. When the day comes that this Parliament is prepared to set up an outside body and tell that outside body: 'You can do what you like and we are bound to follow it', we are abandoning parliamentary democracy. That will not happen under a government of which the Liberal Party forms part. 
I want to make another very important point. We are critical of the arbitrary making of grants to schools on the basis of a studentteacher ratio. It could be most damaging to the student himself, to the parent and to the school. If parents want to make an extra sacrifice to provide more teachers so that there is a lower student-teacher relationship, does that mean that they therefore have to have their grants reduced? The only defence to having their grants reduced is to sack teachers to increase the student-teacher ratio so that the school can be put into a lower category such as D or C instead of staying in A simply because the parents are prepared to make that greater sacrifice for their children. I am not referring just to the so-called 'silver tails'. These people opposite with this social class attitude- 
I was almost going to use a worse word. I am glad that I stopped myself from saying it. Class warfare is what the Government understands and what it believes in. The plain fact of the matter is that under the terms of this Bill, if it is allowed to survive - it has only 2 years or less to run before we change it - the Government that is so concerned about egalitarianism will be throwing that principle out the door and creating elitism. A narrow group of schools will develop at which the students will be the children of the very wealthy who will start to try to establish a hegemony of influence in Australia economically and socially. The Liberal Party will have no part of that elitism. That will be the automatic consequence of what the Labor Government with its class warfare and its religious bigotry has done. 
The Prime Minister's telegram to the State Premiers stating that there might not be money available for education at the start of the next school year was a sheer political stunt and nothing more. The plain fact of the matter is that the Government, with its responsibility to provide money for various services, has unanimous support from both Houses of this Parliament for the provision of $694m. Does anybody believe that the Government would throw the education system into confusion for the Sake of the $1.5m in question? It is an impossibility that it would have been prepared to put up with that situation. 
As for a double dissolution, if the Government wanted a double dissolution on this issue it would take place in March or April next year and the people of Australia would have gone through a month in which school children, the schools and the school teachers would have been deprived of all the benefits proposed in the Karmel Committee report. For the sake of $1.5m the Government would have- 
As I am reminded by the right honourable member for Higgins, sheerly out of spite. The plain fact of the matter is that the Government's statement of the position never was true. I sent telegrams to every State Premier stating that if there were a double dissolution on the question and we were returned to government we would back-date the payments provided for in the Karmel Committee report and that we would also provide grants which would take up the cost of the interest paid on money borrowed in the meantime. We are committed to that and that is where we will stay. And that mere shadow of Whitlam- (Government supporters interjecting) - 
Unfortunately, the sun was not shining brightly when that shadow was created. He has until the next election for this House so honourable members opposite had better make their interjections loud and clear now. We will miss him after the next elections. The Liberal and Country Parties have not agreed on the settlement of this issue. We did agree up until now on this issue but we no longer agree. People will ask whether there is a rift therefore between us. The fact is that the Australian Country Party takes a different attitude in judgment as to the solving of this problem to that which we take. We believe our judgment is right and we believe that our judgment will be reaffirmed when we are in government and we restore the previous principle. In the meantime, I will not allow this issue to come between the 2 parties because in principle both parties agree. I am able to say, as I will say in a joint policy speech at the next general election, that we will, as a coalition government, restore these payments. In the meantime, every member of my Party thoroughly accepts the principle upon which we have stood until now and on which we will stand tonight and vote according to our principles. 
 This Bill provides for the establishment of a tribunal of three to determine in some instances and to recommend in other instances salaries which should be paid to different categories of office holders. The proposal is that the  Chairman  should be either a member of a State judiciary or an exmember of a State judiciary. Quite clearly, the purpose of this is so that no person as a member of the Commission can be fixing salaries by which he himself will benefit. There is a provision for 2 other persons to form the Commission of three. The qualifications for membership of the other 2 members of the Commission have not been fully set out. I do not know who they will be, of course, nor do I know what their qualifications will be. But quite clearly, as the legislation would provide, they must not be affected by their own determinations. 
An interesting dichotomy is drawn in relation to the powers of the Commission actually to determine salaries for certain groups - 3 groups, in fact, being the first division officers in the Public Service, statutory officers and members of this Parliament. It is envisaged that the Commission will actually determine those salaries and allowances and they will have the force of law upon the determination. It will still be a prescription by the Parliament because the determination must be laid on the table and it can be disallowed by either House. If it is disallowed it ceases to have the force of law. A lot of people over the years have felt that this is a proper provision to make - that the Parliament should not fix its own salaries and that it ought to be done by an independent commission. I speak on behalf of both Opposition Parties which accept this proposal. 
The dichotomy I referred to is in relation to the salaries of Ministers and of the Federal judiciary. In his second reading speech the Minister said that the dichotomy by which the Commission would inquire into and recommend salaries as distinct from fixing them as a matter of determination is for constitutional reasons. I am at a loss to know what are those constitutional reasons because as I recall the Constitution it provides for Ministers and members of Parliament in pretty much the same way - that is, that Ministers will be provided with salaries which, until the Parliament otherwise determines, shall be a given amount. The same formula is adopted for the salaries of members. If my recollection is right the salary is to be 400 a year until the Parliament otherwise provides. The formula being the same in both instances, there must be some other reason for the separation and the assertion by the Minister which I do not challenge. However I would be interested to know the basis upon which it is said that there is a constitutional difficulty about the Ministers. 
That constitutional difficulty is probably fortunate because I think the provision for judges certainly ought to be before the Parliament as a piece of legislation. For Ministers it will be the same although it will not be so for members. I do not understand why Ministers are being treated differently from members on this occasion. There may be good reasons, and I am not complaining that they are treated differently, but I think some explanation ought to be offered and I ask for it to assist an understanding of the Bill. The Government quite clearly has decided that this is the best way to determine the matter. It had its genesis in debates in this House in the past about parliamentary salaries. Of course, I think it is basically a recommendation of the Kerr Committee of last year that there should be such a tribunal. 
The other interesting thing about the legislation is that the Commission can act on its own initiative but according to the statute will be required to make the inquiry or determination at least once a year. I have said all that I need to say but I have asked a question of the Minister. If he can obtain an answer I will be glad to hear it. Perhaps the Minister can have the indulgence of the House for a couple of minutes to give me the answer. 
 I thank the Minister.  Mr Speaker,  perhaps I also can have your indulgence to say that I will not delay the Bill pending the answer to my question but if the Minister can provide the information I will not pursue the matter at this stage. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
Third reading 
Leave granted for third reading to be moved forthwith. 
Bill (on motion by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) read a third time. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
How many positions were abolished in each Department in 1972-73. 
What positions were abolished in each Department. 
When were the abolished positions created. 
What were the reasons for their abolition. 
Does the Public Service Board have a section or branch concerned directly with the role of reviewing possible redundant positions in Departments. 
If so, how is this role undertaken. 
asked the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice: 
Has he given consideration to the introduction of a scheme whereby young people accommodated in Commonwealth Hostels in Canberra, who are employed in junior positions in the Public Service and earn relatively low incomes, might be given some form of subsidy to enable them to avoid financial difficulties in paying accommodation charges. 
If so, what was the result of that consideration. 
If not, will he now give consideration to the matter. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Does his Department participate in any interdepartmental committee or committees dealing with any, aspects of the proposed National Superannuation Scheme or the National Superannuation Enquiry. 
If so, will he name the committee or committees. 
asked the Minister  for  the Environment and Conservation, upon notice: 
Will he provide a list of all areas in Australia that have been identified or are identifiable as areas of (a) mercury pollution, (b) cadmium pollution, (c) lead pollution, (d) zinc pollution and (e) pollution due to all other heavy metals. 
When were the areas first identified as polluted. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. When asked about statements on foreign policy by his colleagues, the Prime Minister said on 9 January this vear: 
All I choose to say is there will be no further statements on foreign policy except by the Minister. 
He meant the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who at that time was himself. In this House on 29 November the Prime Minister said with respect to the Provisional Revolutionary Government in South Vienam 
It was in fact discussed at the Federal Conference of the Australian Labor Party last July. I expressed my views that in the circumstances then obtaining it would be inappropriate to recognise the PRG. I am not aware of any chance in circumstances* since that time which would persuade me otherwise. 
Yesterday in Hanoi the Minister for Overseas Trade,  Dr Cairns,  declared that Australia would probably recognise the PRG in South Vietnam in one form or another. Will the Prime Minister now state precisely what is Australia's policy with respect to the Provisional Revolutionary Government? Secondly, if the policy is as he stated a couple of weeks ago, will he take appropriate disciplinary action against the Minister for Overseas Trade because of his interference in and misrepresentation of Australian foreign policy? 
I ask for leave to make a statement on the same subject. 
 It is customary at the end of the parliamentary session to speak on the adjournment motion in terms of appreciation to those who have assisted in the Parliament and also to wish greetings. For reasons that were not within my control, I must take 2 minutes before I do that. It is the custom of the Parliament that if 2 hours notice is given of the intention of a Minister to make a statement, leave is given for that statement to be made. We were given notice by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  that he intended to make a statement and we agreed to grant leave. 
I was then provided with a statement of 62 pages and asked whether I would agree to it being incorporated in Hansard. As you will know,  Mr Speaker,  the Parliament has been most anxious that Hansard not be misused by wrong incorporation in that publication. The way in which Hansard is usually used in this purpose is for the incorporation of a table when that table illustrates a point in argument. For instance, this morning the Minister for Transport  (Mr Jones)  wanted to table a chart which showed the noise levels of different types of aircraft. He was readily given leave to do so. No doubt that table will appear in the Hansard report of today's proceedings as an incorporation. That is the way in which the incorporation of material in Hansard occurs. 
We have been most anxious that that right not be abused. There has been a constant determination to ensure that. On occasions the normal procedures have been departed from. I believe, for instance, that last year the then Minister for National Development,  Sir Reginald  Swartz, incorporated in Hansard towards the end of the parliamentary session a quite long statement. I think it could have been more than 20 pages of the printed Hansard. That is what happened on that occasion. I was unaware of it at the time. That matter was not part of my duties at that stage. 
This year, as Leader of the Opposition, I have been determined to do all that I can to make this Parliament what a Parliament ought to be. If rules did not govern incorporations in Hansard, a member could be asked by one of his constituents to incorporate in Hansard the text of a novel that he had written. If it were incorporated, the Government Printer would print it and that constituent could distribute his novel wherever he wishes. Somebody could come along with a copy of 'The Three Musketeers', a trilogy of Frank Hardy's works or whatever and seek leave to have it incorporated. Quite clearly, that would be an absurdity. 
Yes, he came along with 'Gullible's Travels'. We have been anxious to play our part. I found because of the petulance exhibited from the Government that leave was refused for me to make a statement on the same subject as the statement delivered by the Prime Minister. What an awful way for this Parliament to conclude the business of this year. The Prime Minister was so devoid of confidence in his own performance that he had to stand here and recite for 2 hours what his Government had done so that he can sit at night and read it, no doubt to remind himself that he is, in his own words, 'the greatest'. I have made the point. I will not pursue it. What happened this afternoon on the part of the Government and of the Prime Minister was as gross an abuse of the forms of this House as I have ever seen. That unfortunate episode having passed, I now come to the principal purpose for which I rose. 
This Parliament has serving within it office bearers and outside it other office bearers. I want to pay a particular tribute to the Clerks of the Parliament, the Serjeant-at-Homes and the officers of the Bills and Papers Office, all of whom are essential in the running of this Parliament. They all perform their jobs extremely efficiently. They have the respect and honour of every member of the Parliament. I congratulate them for yet another year's service well performed. 
Also within the House we are served by Hansard. It is a wonder to most of us how Hansard manages to get everything down in the stresses that sometimes occur in the House. I think that there are many members of the Parliament who, after they have spoken and then read the Hansard proofs of their speeches, feel that the Hansard report certainly reads more cleanly and more directly than the words that were used. I also draw attention to the way in which, in that tidying up process for which I thank them, the Hansard reporters perform this task without in any way destroying the full intent of the words, whether what was said was in error, malicious or complimentary. I pay a tribute also to the Hansard typists who hammer out on their typewriters the words dictated to them by the Hansard shorthand reporters. I have heard the clacking of their typewriters; I pay thanks to them. 
Another group within the House are the attendants, silent but always on hand to attend to our needs. They do an excellent job. I would like those attendants in the House and the attendants outside the House, in the corridors, etc, to receive the thanks of the Opposition. 
Serving us also within the chamber is yourself,  Mr Speaker.  May 1 say in the warmest of personal terms that we have known each other for a number of years. I congratulate you on the year passed. I have not always agreed with you but, so far, I have managed to obey you. I intend to do so in the future. If we have disagreements, the Opposition will take the appropriate parliamentary course. In personal terms, I thank you for your service this year. I thank also  Mr Scholes,  the  Chairman  of Committees, and his  Deputy Chairman  not only on the Government side but also on the Opposition side. The conduct of the House that they have ensured and the knowledge of the Standing Orders that they have displayed has been first class. 
Outside the chamber there are the parliamentary dining rooms. The people in the dining rooms have a very difficult task to perform looking after 185 members of the Parliament who many times are not in the easiest of moods when they go into the dining rooms. I thank those who prepare the meals and those who serve them. 
Very important also to the work of the Parliament are the cleaners. They do a particularly good job. I think that a special tribute ought to be paid to the cleaners. Sometimes when we leave our offices at night, we do not leave them in a particularly tidy fashion. When we return in the morning, they are always clean. I am particularly thankful to the cleaner on the area of the building where I have my office. 
The Parliamentary Library serves us extremely well. On behalf of the Opposition I wish to pay a special tribute to those people in the Parliamentary Library who do our legislative researching for us. This research work is so important to us in formulating policies and speeches for this chamber. 
The Parliamentary Counsel likewise is an old friend of most of us in this place. I pay tribute to him and to his staff. The Government Printer is under continual stress to get the daily Hansard out. He always achieves that task. The hours that we have been sitting in this session must have put an added strain on him, but he has been able to achieve the production of the daily Hansard. 
I thank also the members of the Press who sit above us and observe our every action and hear every word that we utter. Sometimes the reports that we read of our speeches are not what we would have written if we had been writing them, but I think all of us would say that the job done by the Press is absolutely essential to the democratic process so that what happens here can, through the judgment and interpretative pen of the Press, reach all the Australian people. 
I pay a tribute to the Whips, particularly the Opposition Whips. I think  Mr Max  Fox, the honourable member for Henty, and his assistant Whip,  Mr Geoffrey  O'Halloran Giles, and  Mr John  England from the Australian Country Party. The Whips have done an excellent job. I think they have co-operated very well with the Government side of the House. I pay a particular tribute to the  Deputy  Leader of the Liberal Party,  Mr Lynch,  who, on behalf of the Opposition is responsible for the conduct and management of the House. A great deal of the credit for this year's sittings must go to him and also to another colleague,  Mr Sinclair,  who on behalf of the Country Party has co-operated with  Mr Lynch.  I also thank their staffs for the work they have performed this year. 
I particularly thank my own staff who have borne a great deal of the burden of my work. The job of Leader of the Opposition is a difficult one. The Prime Minister had that job for quite a number of years. I now know that the job of a party leader, especially the job of a party leader on the Opposition side of the House, is a significantly different one. I thank my own staff for making this job easier. I also thank the staffs of Ministers whom I have found to be very helpful. I convey to all the ministerial staffs through the ministers, my appreciation for the work which they have done. I have not always agreed with what they are bound to write; but I certainly have appreciated greatly their courtesy and the way in which they have attended to their duties. 
Finally, I pay a tribute to the wives of members of Parliament. I do not think the public understands just what burdens the wives of members carry. I am particularly grateful for the way in which our wives have represented us when we have been here, for the way in which they have spoken when called upon to do so and for the way in which they have stood up to the pressure which has been put on them and which no ordinary women would bear. I am sure that all of us are proud of the way in which they have been able to withstand this pressure and help us in our tasks. 
I take the opportunity to extend to every member of the House and every person to whom I have referred best wishes for Christmas and the new year. May the new year be a year of change. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Further to question No. 1058, will be indicate: 
How many handicapped people sought assistance for admittance to rehabilitation centres or regional rehabilitation clinics during 1972-73 and were refused. 
What were the main reasons for their rejection. 
What is the average waiting time experienced by people before receiving attention at the centres/ clinics; and 
What is the average length of treatment. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What is the current estimated value of all works of art owned by the Government which are intended to be exhibited in the National Art Gallery when it is constructed. 
Where are these works of art housed. 
What works of art have been purchased by the Government, from whom were they bought, and for what price since 2 December 1972. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
What is the mean cost per day of a patient in (a) supervised hostel accommodation and (b) day hospitals in each of the States. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
With reference to his answer to my question No. 882 (Hansard, 10 October 1973, page 1906), is it a fact that the Director-General in deciding that a patient's admission to a nursing home would not be approved must be satisfied firstly that the needs of the patient would be adequately or more suitably provided for in accommodation in an institution other than an approved nursing home, and secondly that such accommodation is available to the patient. 
If so, what is the definition of 'institution other than an approved nursing home'. 
In particular could 'institution other than a nursing home' be considered to be the patient's own place of residence. 
In relation to part (1), how does the DirectorGeneral determine whether such other accommodation is available. 
How many persons have been granted approval to receive the domiciliary nursing care benefit in relation to a patient, even though the patient was one the Director-General considered could have been adequately, or more suitably accommodated for in another institution, but for whom no such accommodation was suitable. 
Are persons, whose applications are refused, advised that they are entitled to request a review of the Director-General's decision by the Minister. 
If so, how are they notified. 
How many persons have requested such a review since the inception of the scheme. 
What has been the result of each such request. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
With reference to his answer to question No. 550 (Hansard, 22 October 1973, page 2469), (a) what was the actual date in 1973 that the working party on hearing conservation was set up, (b) will the recommendations of this working party be made available and (c) if recommendations are already available, what are they. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Further to Question No. 1076 and in light of the answer provided by him and that provided by the Prime Minister in the House of Representatives on 7 November 1973, has the Prime Minister instructed him to provide a list of inter-departmental committees of which officers of the former Department of Civil Aviation were members, if so, will he now provide me with such a list. 
asked the Minister for Trans port, upon notice: 
Following his answer to Question No. 1076 and in the light of the Prime Minister's guarantee in the House on 7 November that the information will be made available, will he provide a list of the interdepartmental committees established since 2 December 1972 of which officers of the former Department of Civil Aviation were members. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
In relation to the purchase by the government of Desert Farms at Wiluna in Western Australia and the intention to use 73 acres of the land for melon planting, 
what markets is it envisaged will be used to sell the fruit, 
who is the project manager assisting the Aboriginal community and who are the agricultural consultants involved, 
what is the background experience and qualifi cations of each of these people, 
how many members of the Aboriginal com munity hold shares in the operating company, and 
on what basis have the shares been allocated. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Is there any interdepartmental committee or committees or was there any committee or committees to consider the question of the siting of Sydney's second airport. 
Is there any interdepartmental committee or committees considering the siting of any, other future international airports in Australia. 
If so, will he name the interdepartmental committee or committees concerned. 
asked the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Does his Department maintain a record  at  inter-departmental committees in which it participates. 
If not, then how is he aware of all the interdepartmental consultations in which his Department is involved through inter-departmental committees. 
Will he ensure that such a list is in future available to him. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise, upon notice: 
Has the interdepartmental committee established by the Government to report on the desirability of the adoption of the Brussel's definition of value reported to the Government on this matter and also on the adoption of the GATT anti-dumping code. 
If so, does the Government intend to table the report in 1973. 
If not, when is the report expected to be presented to the Government. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
How many Aborigines are involved in the employment carried on at the Mount Minnie property which was purchased by the Government for the Noualla Group of Aborigines in Western Australia for $33,000. 
How many Aborigines live on the property and in what type of accommodation. 
What vegetables are grown on the property and in what acreage. 
For what purposes are the vegetables being grown. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Further to question No. 1121 and the report compiled by Commonwealth and State officials which was completed more than 5 months ago and which includes recommendations on measures to contain inflation, whose report is it. 
Has he sought the consent of the Premiers to its release; if so, when. 
Which Premiers have given consent and which have not. 
Which Premiers have provided a reply to his letter of 16 July 1973 which sought a reaction to the actual substance of the report. 
Which Premiers have not yet replied to that letter. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
<para pgwide="yes">What is the (a) membership, (b) time-table and (c) charter of each of the following interdepartmental committees : (i) Arrangements for provisions of advice on ionising radiation, (ii) Assistance to Industries, (iii) Australian Government Office Space, (iv) Australian Investment Overseas, (v) Australian Participation in NASA Post-Apollo Program, (vi) Australian Trade with Developing Countries, (vii) Brussels Definition of Value for Duty and GATT Anti-Dumping Code, (viii) Consideration of First Report of the Aboriginal Land Rights Commission, (ix) Environmental Impact Studies, (x) Freedom of Information Legislation, (xi) GATT Trade Negotiations, (xii) Human Rights, (xiii) Metric Conversion Co-ordination, (xiv) Motor Vehicle Industry, (xv) National Archives Legislation (xvi) National Housing Policy, (xvii) Revaluation Adjustment Assistance for Rural Industries, (xviii) Shipbuilding Industry, (xix) Social Indicators - (Social Welfare), (xx) Soil Conservation, (xxi) Structural Adjustment - (Tariff), (xxii) The Production of Educational Publications, (xxiii) Unified Aid Administration, (xxiv) Urban and Regional Development, (xxv) Urban Transport and (xxvi) Purari River Project. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
What groups in the community as defined in the Australian Health Insurance Program, are not covered by the present health scheme, and how many people are in each group. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Will he list the new divisions and branches that have been created in each Department since 2 December 1972. 
Will he also indicate for each Department 
the number of (i) divisions and (ii) branches prior to 2 December 1972 and (b) the number of (i) divisions and (ii) branches approved as at 16 October 1973. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Is there any inter-departmental committee or committees dealing with any aspect of the proposal for an Australian system of awards to replace the imperial honours system. 
If so, will he name the committee or committees concerned. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
Does his Department maintain a record of interdepartmental committees in which it participates. 
If not, then how is he aware of all the interdepartmental consultations in which his Department is involved through interdepartmental committees. 
Will he ensure that such alist is in future available to him. 
asked the Minister for Secondary Industry, upon notice: 
Does his Department maintain a record of interdepartmental committees in which it participates. 
If not, then how is he aware of all the interdepartmental consultations in which his Department is involved through interdepartmental committees. 
Will he ensure that such a list is in future available to him. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Has the Public Service Board provided to the Government an initial report on its inquiry into action being taken by Departments to ensure that manpower savings are achieved in the implementation of recommendations of the Coombs Report and that staff involved are transferred to priority areas of the administration. 
If so, when will the report be tabled? 
If not, when is it expected that the report will be received? 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Is there an inter-departmental committee dealing with the shipbuilding industry in Australia; if so, what is the committee's (a) membership, (b) timetable and (c) charter. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Have there been any inter-departmental committees established since 2 December 1972 in which his Department and the Department of Tourism and Recreation have examined problems of common concern or matters in which they are jointly involved. 
If so, what was the purpose of each committee. 
asked the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice: 
Will he provide a list of the interdepartmental committees which have been established since 2 December 1972 of which officers of the former Department of Housing were members). 
asked the Minister for Supply, upon notice: 
Does the Government have a system for the disposal by way of gift or token tender of Australian ships and aeroplanes that will ensure that items of historical significance are preserved for future generations of Australians. 
If so, was the decision to donate HMAS Castlemaine to the Maritime Trust of Australia, Victoria, rather than dispose of it by normal tender, highest bidder procedures, part of this system. &lt;3) What other organisations or individuals tendered for or sought possession of HMAS Castlemaine. 
Does the Government have a system for disposing of other public goods for which he has responsibility by way of gift or token tender to charitable organisations or responsible community bodies. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Has he had discussions with authorities of the United States of America requesting Australian access to ocean surveillance information gathered by United States satellites and United States aircraft in return for the use of Australian bases  by,  the United States. 
If so, what were the results of the request. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Has he set a growth target for the Public Service in 1973-74. 
If so, what is the figure he has set. 
If not, what does he expect the growth in the Public Service will be in 1973-74, and on what basis does he form this* estimate. 
Does this figure include employment in statutory authorities. 
If not, what is the expected growth or growth target in all Commonwealth employment, that is, including statutory authorities. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
Further to question No. 1077 and in light of the answer provided by him and that provided by the Prime Minister in the House of Representatives on 7 November 1973, has the Prime Minister instructed him to provide a list of interdepartmental committees of which officers of his Department are members; if so, will he now provide me with such a list. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
Following his answer to question No. 1077 and in the light of the Prime Minister's guarantee in the House on 7 November 1973 that the information will be made available, will he provide a list of the interdepartmental committees established since 2 December 1972 of which officers of his Department are members. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Did the Department of Civil Aviation maintain a record of inter-departmental committees in which it participated. 
If not, then how was he aware of all the interdepartmental consultations in which that Department was involved through inter-departmental committees. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
How many students have graduated from each university in Australia in each of the last 10 years with Ph.D. status in the disciplines of biological sciences, soil sciences, chemistry, agriculture, physics, mathematics, social sciences and engineering. &lt;2) What percentage of students in each discipline have left Australia since obtaining their degree. 
How many students in each discipline are currently employed in Australia, in areas allied to their tertiary training, (a) in industry, in administration areas, (b) in industry, in research and development areas, (c) teaching at secondary school level, (d) teaching at tertiary level and (e) undertaking further research at universities or colleges of advanced education. 
How many students in each discipline are currently employed in Australia in areas having no connection with their field of discipline. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What staffing establishment is provided in each Department of the Public Service to fulfil public relations or public information service activities. 
What is the estimated cost for each Department of providing these activities, including salary and administration costs, during 1973-74. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
Will he provide a list of the interdepartmental committees, which have been established since 2 December 1972, of which officers of his Department are members. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
How many social worker positions are on the establishment of each Department. 
When was each position created. 
What are the functions, duties and responsibilities of each of these positions. 
How many of these positions are currently filled. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Will he take up with the  Chairman  of the Public Service Board the desirability of keeping more detailed information on the employment of the handicapped in the Public Service so that information along the lines sought by me in Question No. 877 is available. 
Will he seek details from the Public Service Board of the progress that has been made in implementing the system of reporting on the placement of physically handicapped persons which the Board indicated it was planning to introduce when it gave evidence to the Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare in 1971. 
asked the Treasurer, upon  notice: 
Have the revaluations of the Australian dollar put persons in Australia receiving social service benefits, denominated in English pounds, at a severe disadvantage. 
As he has said that he will consider compensation to industry groups affected by revaluations, will he also consider compensation for those individuals who are affected; if so, will he make an early announcement as to the extent and form of such assistance. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
In relation to the reference by the Prime Minister at his press conference of 6 June 1973 to an inter-departmental committee dealing with the effect of imports under by-law exemptions and the effect that they have on costs and on production, what is the committee's (a) membership, (b) timetable and (c) charter. 
Has the committee yet reported to the Minister; if so, will the report be made public. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
Was an inter-departmental committee appointed to investigate and report upon Commonwealth office space in major cities. 
If so, what was the committee's (a) membership, (b) timetable and (c) charter. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
Does his Department participate or has it participated in any inter-departmental committee or committees considering any aspect of the National Estate. 
If so, will he name the committee or committees concerned. 
asked the Minister for Urban  and Regional Development, upon notice: 
Does his Department maintain a record of inter-departmental committees in which it participates. 
If not, then how is he aware of all the interdepartmental consultations in which his Department is involved through inter-departmental committees. 
Will he ensure that such a list is in future available to him. 
asked the Minister for Educa  tion, upon notice: 
Is there any inter-departmental committee or committees dealing with any aspect of supplies of text books required by school students and to recommend means of overcoming any shortage. 
If so, will he name the committee or committees concerned. 
asked  the  Minister for 'Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
How many resident action groups, progress associations, etc, have been formed in metropolitan Sydney and Melbourne. 
What are the names of these organisations. 
Does the Department maintain a register of such groups. 
Have any funds been made available by the Government to these groups; if so, what are the details. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: &lt;1) Have there been any inter-departmental committees established since 2 December 1972 in which his Department and the Department of Transport have examined problems of common concern or matters in which they, are jointly involved. 
If so, what was the purpose of each committee. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice:  &lt;1) Have there been any interdepartmental committees established since 2 December 1972 in which his Department and the Department of Housing and Construction have examined problems of common concern or matters in which they are jointly involved. 
If so, what was the purpose of each committee. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
With reference to his indication in September that he had asked that the practicality and usefulness of compiling and maintaining a central record of consultants employed by Departments be examined, who is undertaking this examination. 
When was the examination commenced. 
Is it yet complete. 
If so, what is the outcome. 
If not, when is it expected that the examination will be completed, and will he undertake to inform me of the outcome. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice:  &lt;1) How many proposals have been received by his Department from charitable institutiins, churches and other bodies seeking to take part in the scheme proposed by the Government wherein sites will be made available in Canberra free of charge for the purpose of building homes for the aged. 
What are the names of these organisations. 
What sites have been made available to date, and to whom. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Which Minister has been given responsibility for the national book resources development committee? 
asked the Minister for Labour, upon notice: 
Which sections of his Department are conducting research into the causes of industrial absenteeism. 
When was the research commenced and what specific projects are being undertaken. 
How many officers are involved in such research. 
Will a report be presented to the Government at the completion of this project. 
If so, when is it expected that the report will be available for public information. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Further to question No. 1108, when will the report be issued detailing results of the rail car preference survey which has been carried out in Brisbane by the Bureau of Transport Economics. 
Why was Brisbane chosen as the location for this survey. 
Is it intended to undertake similar surveys in other States. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
With reference to his answer to question No. 5S0 (Hansard, 22 October 1973, Page 2469), what are the theoretical predictions of aircraft noise for each of the major airports in the capital cities in terms of prepared noise exposure forecasts. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
In what companies does the Australian Industry Development Corporation currently have equity investment? 
What is the paid-up capital of those companies? 
What is the percentage ownership by AIDC of those companies? 
What was the position in respect of parts (1). (2) and (3) one year ago? 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Did he say in reply to a Question without notice on 4 December 1973 that monthly results from Budget Transactions are not easily attainable. 
Does the Treasury release, on a monthly basis, a document entitled 'Australian Government - Statement of Financial Transactions' which sets out details of the Government's expenditure, receipts, and deficit, and is this information also published in the Treasury Information Bulletin and the 'Reserve Bank Statistical Bulletin'. 
Has the Treasury revised its estimates of Australian Government expenditure for the year 1973-74. 
If so, what is the revised percentage increase over the 1972-73 result. 
If not, when does he expect to receive revised estimates. 
asked the Prime Minister upon notice: 
How many Second Division positions have been created since 2 December 1972. 
How many of these positions have been filled. 
What percentage has been filled from outside the Public Service. 
In the case of those filled from outside the Service, what percentage came from (a) private industry, (b) academic insititutions or (c) other employment. 
What are the comparable figures for the previous 12 months. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Is the classification, Special Deputy to the Permanent Head, which will be used in relation to the Department of Defence, a new classification. 
If not, when has it been used before and what is the statutory relationship between this office and that of Permanent Head. 
What statutory 'powers does this office hold. 
What is the salary relationship between the office of the Special Deputy to the Permanent Head and that of Permanent Head. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
With reference to his answer to question No. 1047 in which he indicated that the Bureau of Transport Economics had commenced a study of the transport needs of disadvantaged sections of the community, what is the exact nature of the study that is being undertaken, and what are the exact sections of the community included in the study. 
When is it expected that this study will be completed, and will a report be tabled providing details of the results. 
Has a decision been taken as to which projects will be supported under the $1m research and planning scheme. 
If so, will he provide a list of those projects which have been approved. 
If not, when is it likely that the projects will be decided upon, and will he undertake to provide me with a list of those that are finally approved. 
asked the Minister for Trans port, upon notice: 
In relation to his assurance that the question of providing grants for free off-peak travel would be examined in consultation with the State transport authorities, has he consulted with State authorities in this matter as vet. 
If so, when did the consultation take place. 
If not, can be indicate a likely date when consultation on this matter will begin. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Has he given consideration to commissioning the Bureau of Transport Economics to examine the proposal to extend the rail line north of Alice Springs before the proposed standard gauge line is completed. 
If so, what is the result of that consideration. 
If not, when is it likely that he will consider this matter, and when is a decision likely as to whether the Bureau should undertake such a study. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Has he set a growth target for the Public Service in 1973-74. 
If so, what is the figure he has set. 
If not, what does he expect the growth in the Public Service will be in 1973-74, and on what basis does he form this estimate. 
Does this figure include employment in statutory authorities. 
If not, what is the expected growth or growth target in all Commonwealth employment, that is, including statutory authorities. 
asked the Minister for Labour, upon notice: 
At the Conference of South Pacific Labour Ministers in October/ November 1973 was concern expressed at the effect of some trade union activities in the maritime industry in the South Pacific region. 
Were the activities of Australian trade unions referred to in this context. If so, did the Government give any undertaking to other South Pacific governments concerning this matter. 
Have consultations on this matter been held with Australian trade unions. If so, what form did such consultations take, when and where were they held and who participated in them. 
Have there been any subsequent contacts or consultations with other governments in the South Pacific region on this question. 
asked the Minister for Labour, upon notice: 
At the Conference of South Pacific Labour Ministers in October/November 1973 was it decided to begin a program of exchange of Labour Department staff between countries with comparable problems in this field. 
If so, have consultations been held concerning arrangements for such a program and has such a program commenced. 
If consultations have been held, what form did the consultations take, and when and where were they held. 
In which of these consultations did Australia participate and what part is Australia playing in any such program. 
asked the Minister for Labour, upon notice: 
At the Conference of South Pacific Labour Ministers in October/November 1973 did the Australian and New Zealand Governments agree that they would provide training facilities for labour administrators as a means of helping to establish the necessary qualifications and expertise for developing labour policies and their application in the South Pacific. 
If so, what facilities have so far been provided and what action has been taken to arrange for the future provision of such facilities by Australia. 
Have consultations between Australia and New Zealand been held subsequent to the Labour Ministers' Conference to co-ordinate such arrangements. 
If so, when were these consultations held and what decisions were taken concerning the coordination of action by Australia and New Zealand. 
The late honourable Donald Alastair Cameron, O.B.E., was a man of very strong character. He was a good companion and a loyal colleague; he was a patriotic Australian who served the nation and the community with great distinction; he was a member of the Cabinet; he was a diplomat; he was a medical practitioner; and in all those ways he served the Australian nation and the Australian community. He served in his last official post as Australian High Commissioner to New Zealand for 3 years from 1962 to 1965. He had held the posts of Commonwealth Minister for Health and Ministerincharge of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. He served from 1949 to December 1961 as the member for the Federal division of Oxley. An interesting fact about the Honourable Donald Cameron is that he. was the son of a doctor who practised in Ipswich. Don Cameron was bom in Ipswich. He qualified in medicine at Sydney and he was a house surgeon at the Royal Prince Alfred Hospital and the Prince Henry Hospital. He returned to Ipswich and there practised as a medical practitioner. 
He had a distinguished war service both in the Middle East and in the islands to the north of Australia. After he completed his service as Australian High Commissioner in New Zealand he returned to public service in Queensland as a practitising medical practitioner. In his return to community service he became  President  of the Queensland Branch of the Australian Medical Association, which position he held in 1969 and 1970.  His  family has had strong ties with the medical profession. I have mentioned that his father was a doctor. Now his son, also named Donald, is carving a name for himself as quite a brilliant young medical scientist in Melbourne. That he was able to hold the Federal seat of Oxley as long as he did, even though the area had large coalmining and industrial development, shows his personal attractiveness as a man. Those of us who served in this Parliament with Don Cameron remember him as a good friend and a good colleague. 
I ask the Prime Minister: What are the grounds for holding up Commonwealth Government approval of the Alwest project in Western Australia? Does the Prime Minister expect to relax or to amend the Commonwealth's grounds for withholding until now its approval and, if so, when and in what particulars? What are the reasons for any relaxation or amendments to the Commonwealth's conditions which he may propose? 
Will environmental studies additional to those already undertaken by the Western Australian Government be undertaken? If so, why? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. It will be a rare occasion for him to receive a question without notice. I ask him: In view of the increasing price of rock phosphate on the world market and the expected shortfall of rock phosphate from Christmas Island this year, does he agree with the Prime Minister's decision to abolish the superphosphate bounty at the end of this year? Does the Minister believe that the decision was untimely and should be reviewed? 
This is an extremely unusual circumstance. Normally nobody knows what is likely to be in a report of the AuditorGeneral until it is presented to the Parliament. Consequently, it would be appropriate for the report to be examined and then debated. The motion proposed on this occasion will send the report to the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Public Accounts for examination, and I have no objection to that. Indeed, as has been apparent, I voted in support of that motion. But what I want to draw attention to now is the sorry mess that the Department of Aboriginal Affairs is in, as evidenced by reports in more than one newspaper which all were made at the same time and which indicated that there was not just a mere casual leak but that there was a positive flood - a deliberately designed flood - of information to newspapers to prepare the Australian public and the Parliament for the sorry news that was yet to come. So that the Australian public and the Parliament would not be taken totally by surprise the idea of the Government was to leak out what was contained in the AuditorGeneral's report so that there would not be the shock which I have no doubt that this document when read ought to provide. 
The Sydney 'Sun' of 15 January carried the headline: 'Spending Probe on Government Department'. The newspaper stated: 
The Auditor-General,  Mr D.  Craik, has asked the Department of Aboriginal Affairs to 'please explain' expenditures running into hundreds of thousands of dollars. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs,  Senator Cavanagh,  said this today. 
A headline in the Melbourne 'Age' of 16 January read: '$40,000 boat trip: Cavanagh wants to know why'. It is as though  Senator Cavanagh,  the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, is in some way a hero, whereas in fact he is the Minister responsible for the administration of the Department. The article in the 'Age' stated: 
A spokesman for  Senator Cavanagh  said last night a report on the spending was expected to come from the Department today. 
The spokesman said the figure was 'astounding'. 
It would include the cost of docking fees, salaries, shipping fuel and food for the crew. 
Then in quotation marks is this statement: 
But God knows how it could total $40,000'. 
Apparently $40,000 was spent on the boat to get it to a refit which could cost $170,000 or $190,000. The Sydney 'Daily Telegraph' of 15 January carried the headline: 'Aboriginal department bungle - "money wasted" charge'. The newspaper stated: 
The Australian Auditor-General.  Mr D.  S. Craik, has uncovered financial bungles in the Aboriginal Affairs Department. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs,  Senator Cavanagh,  said last night that he was most concerned with the situation. 
Well he might have been. He followed up his concern about the situation. By the time 25 February this year had arrived - only last week - the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs,  Senator Cavanagh,  said according to a report that the implementation of the Labor Government's aboriginal affairs policy had been a disaster. Given that it is a disaster, on the full acknowledgement of the Minister himself, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has remained totally mute on the subject. He has the overall responsibility for the administration of Government affairs. One of his Ministers has described his own Department as a disaster, but no explanation has been offered by the Minister as to why it is a disaster, nor has there been a call by the Prime Minister to the Minister to explain why it is a disaster. 
This is not good enough in 2 senses. One is that if the implementation is a disaster it is the Aboriginal people who are suffering from it. A government which came into office announcing such high flown attempts to raise the status of Aborigines is now mutely, meekly abdicating its responsibility to those people, and not a single attempt has been made by the Prime Minister to set things right. The second thing is that clearly on the admission of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs there has been financial bungling. I wish to read from a report which has been provided to me by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch).  He has drawn my attention to a section of it which I shall read unseen because as you know,  Mr Speaker,  the report has been produced by you but I have not had an opportunity yet to open my copy. I read this part: 
It seems to me that it would be helpful if I express at the outset my general conclusions on the situation as it is known to me. To the present I have no positive evidence of misappropriation of public moneys but there is ample evidence of unorthodox and irregular practices resulting, in many cases, in the non-observance of the requirements of the Audit Act, Treasury Regulations and Directions. In some instances, 'insufficient regard was given either to Treasury regulation 93 (1) which requires the exercise of due economy or to the application of normal financial prudence. 
The Auditor-General says that. He also says: 
Non-compliance with accepted procedures was also evident in the control by the Department over expenditure on the establishment and election of the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee; temp orary cash advances to officers; travel; and certain other expenditures from the Aboriginal Advancement Trust Account. 
He then goes on to say: 
The inescapable conclusion is that from the outset the Department failed to organise itself so as to control the expenditure of large amounts of public moneys according to the tenets traditionally applicable. It is also apparent that the Department, while admittedly burdened with new initiatives which occupied the attention and energies of what it claims to be its inadequate, and in many cases, inexperienced staff, failed to take early and resolute action to ensure that proper financial controls were instituted throughout its organisation. 
* * * * 
It appears to me that the Department of Aboriginal Affairs has been somewhat less than rigorous in its control of expenditure of public moneys, in part because it has had access to the Aboriginal Advancement Trust Account which has received progressively increased appropriations from the Parliament. 
In these circumstances, whatever the Standing Orders are at the moment, they should be suspended to allow the Prime Minister to stand in this House and tell the people's elected representatives the way in which action will be taken immediately to stop wrong expenditure and to make sure that in future all expenditure is according to law and according to the proper regulations. It is encumbent upon the Prime Minister to do it. Following the statement a week ago by  Senator Cavanagh  that the implementation of the policy has been a disaster, the Prime Minister should state to this House in clear, unequivocal terms what he has received from  Senator Cavanagh  detailing the disaster, what instructions  Senator Cavanagh  has given to the Department and what instructions the Prime Minister has given to  Senator Cavanagh.  In the interests of the proper running of government in this country, it is encumbent upon the Prime Minister to do so. If he has any respect for his position of trust as Prime Minister of this country and accountable to this House on these matters, he will do so immediately. He should not have required my invitation to do so; we should have been informed by the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  that it would happen. 
The final point I make is this: I supported a public inquiry by the Joint Committee of Public Accounts into the Auditor-General's report. I presume that the Committee will hear public evidence and cross-examine witnesses. That may take a very considerable period of time. Although the Opposition parties have not had an opportunity up to the moment to consult on the report, because the report has just come in, I am sure that I speak on behalf of both the Opposition parties when I say that we are not prepared to allow the debate on this matter to be put off until after we get a report from the Public Accounts Committee. The matter is far too important. The whole issue of accountability for public funds is raised here. We have the Auditor-General's report before us. The responsibility of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs and of the Prime Minister is at issue. I ask that this matter be brought before the chamber for full debate in the next week of sitting. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has come into the House and produced what he calls a second reading speech.  His  second reading speech consists of 2 pages. Part of what it says deals with the outcome of the consideration of these Bills in the Senate. There is no provision whatever in his second reading speech to justify these Bills. That is not surprising, because there was nothing in the speeches that he made last November to justify the Bills then, and he has progressed nowhere since that time. The first Bill that he introduces is the Constitution Alteration (Simultaneous Elections) Bill. We should look at a little of the background of this matter. We are told that we must conclude the debate on these Bills by 6 o'clock tomorrow evening, and that includes not just the 4 Bills which are the subject of this cognate debate; it includes the Bill which has just been introduced, which relates to the interchange of powers between the Commonwealth and the States. 
The Government says that it needs this timetable in order to have the referendum pro posals dealt with at the same time as the Senate election is held. We have to take the Government on trust - which we do not, but it has the numbers and we have not. Therefore, the Government will assert its will by the sheer power of numbers. But how can we know whether this matter is urgent when we do not know the date of the Senate election? The point was made by the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Cooke).  The plain fact of the matter is that nobody has been told officially what the Senate election date is. We all know the standard practice of the Government. It feeds out bits of information here and there through the public media in order to get the public used to what it proposes to do. The public media have been saying that the Senate election date will be 11 May. Now they say that perhaps it will not be 11 May; perhaps it will be 18 May. Why cannot the Prime Minister say when the Senate election will be held? Then everybody would have the opportunity to judge whether in fact this is a matter of urgency. 
I come now to the next Bill which deals with simultaneous elections. This Bill is quite remarkable in that the question which will be put to the public contains these words: 
To alter the Constitution so as to ensure that Senate elections are held at the same time as House of Representatives elections. 
That is not a correct statement. What is a correct statement is that the Constitution is being altered so as to take away the 6-year term from a senator and give him an unknown term which will be 2 lifetimes of the House of Representatives. It means that it could be anything from one year to 6 years. Nobody knows what it will be. What the Government ought to do is to put the question honestly to the people. It is not putting the question honestly to the people. 
It is consistent in lacking honesty. That is certainly true. I come to the next point. The Prime Minister says that we must have a referendum in order to have a Senate election at the same time as a House of Representatives election. If that is not blindfolding oneself to reality I do not know what is. The Prime Minister is committed to hold the Senate election before 30 June  next.  He has the complete freedom to go to Government House and say to the GovernorGeneral: 'I want a dissolution of the House of Representatives'. He can go there tonight. he can go there tomorrow, or he can go there at any time and say: 'I want to bring the elections for the Senate and the House of Representatives into the same time frame. Therefore, I want a dissolution of the House of Representatives'. I would go with him and support him. But he would be the most reluctant lamb led to the slaughter that we have ever seen. 
Yes, we certainly need 2 witnesses. The honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  is trying to interject. He should make his interjections sensible. Let him say that he is in support of this proposal. Then we can see that he, as  President  of the State branch of the Australian Labor Party in Victoria, is confident of a Labor Party victory in Victoria in the forthcoming Senate election. Where is his confidence? If he wants to show his strength of purpose and character and his influence as  President  of the State branch of the ALP in Victoria, and if he is prepared to vote for this Bill, then he should say to the Prime Minister: T want this; I want simultaneous elections. Prime Minister, go to the Governor-General and have the House of Representatives dissolved'. If the honourable member is not prepared to do that, he should not be prepared to vote for this Bill. But in the extraordinary convolution of logic that he will apply to this matter, he will vote for this Bill, that is to say, he wants simultaneous elections, but then he will sit back meekly and mildly and not insist on an election for the House of Representatives. 
There is the extraordinary curiosity about this matter: What honourable members opposite want to achieve by this referendum proposal can be achieved by the Prime Minister of his own volition, entirely constitutionally within his own power, just by going in his white Mercedes-Benz to Government House, and the Governor-General would not refuse his request. But the curious thing about this matter is that probably the Government will not be able to put this proposal to the people at a referendum because in order to do so the Bill has to be introduced in this House at least 3 months after it has failed to be passed or been rejected by the Senate. What the Senate did with his Bill on, I think, 5 December last year or thereabouts, was to refer it to a Senate committee to examine all the implications. Then (he Prime 
Minister, by his action, dissolved the Parliament. When the Parliament was dissolved the Senate committee which was considering the matter went out of existence. I do not give this as a concluded opinion, but I think the probability is that if the Senate does the same thing with this Bill the Governor-General will not be able to authorise this referendum proposal - and only the Governor-General can decide that. Against the possibility that the Government may not be able to achieve this brilliant thing of simultaneous elections, why does it not now dissolve the House of Representatives? The Government oan do, by a simple act of the Prime Minister, exactly what it wants to do by this referendum. That is the first proposal relating to simultaneous elections. I will not go into the proposal in depth now because I did that previously when I spoke about it If we get on to the hustings I will speak about the proposal then. 
The Senate is a very important chamber. lt has the balance of power. The Government comes into this chamber claiming that it has a mandate, but it does not have a mandate because it never openly presented its proposals to the people. The Government puts a proposal before this House and then the proposal goes to the Senate. If the Prime Minister claims that the Senate is obstructing him, there is constitutional power for calling a double dissolution. The Government has had the grounds for calling a double dissolution on the Electoral Bill. We all remember the Minister in charge of electoral affairs saying: This is the most important electoral reform that there has ever been, and we will go to the people if it is not passed by the Senate*. The Senate rejected the legislation, but what happened? The Government just meekly walked away from it; it did not take the opportunity of calling for a double dissolution. The Government did not call for a double dissolution on the off-shore legislation. We believe in the importance of the role of the Senate. 
I turn to the next Bill which is designed to enable the Government to create the most giant gerrymander in the history of any country - not just of this country. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
The next Bill in this quartet of Bills is one which has the euphemistic title, which is what the electors will read when they go to vote on this referendum, of a Bill for an Act: 
To alter the Constitution so as to ensure that the members of the House of Representatives and of the Parliaments of the States are chosen directly and democratically by the people'. 
I regret to say that this is falsity at its highest level. The clear implication is that up till now the House of Representatives has not been elected democratically. What right has the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  to be sitting at the table if he was not elected democratically? I think it would be to the great good of democracy if he were removed, but the fact is that he was elected, one would assume, democratically. 
Yes, and the Minister has the same wobbly wings as those few have. The implication is that we were not elected democratically. The facts are these: There has not been a single occasion in my political lifetime when the Party that gained the majority support did not gain the majority of members in the House, with one exception  -  1954. In 1954 we had an election on the boundaries which were determined by the Labor Government in 1949. Although we got a minority of the votes we remained in government because the then Labor Government wanted a gerrymander in 1949 to preserve its own skin. What Labor did not realise was that the marginal seats would come to us. The Labor Party made life comfortable for itself and left us the marginal seats. So it is real when I say that this Bill is the basis of a giant Labor gerrymander. There are plenty of facts to show it. The basis of this giant gerrymander is to take away any capacity of the electoral distribution commissioners to make adjustments for distance, size or community of interest. That is the first point. 
The second point is that the Bill proposes that the distribution of electorates shall be on the basis of people, not on the basis of electors. The result is that electorates will be distributed on the basis of unnaturalised citizens, those under 18 years of age and those who just have not registered. Honourable members all know plenty of areas where the majority of people are in middle or later age, and other electorates in which the majority are young married people with lots of kids. This policy will mean that some electorates will probably have twice as many electors as do others. If this represents democracy, I fail to understand the meaning of the word. 
One likely result is that the honourable member for Darling  (Mr Fitzpatrick),  dear chap that he is, whose main centre is Broken Hill, will not remain in Broken Hill. He will come within the area of the Riverina electorate. It is also likely to mean that the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  and the honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Fulton),  who together now represent nearly 50 per cent of the land mass of Queensland, will between them represent 60 per cent of the land mass. What about  Mr Collard,  the honourable member for Kalgoorlie, who now represents almost three-quarters of the land mass of Western Australia? If this proposal goes through he will represent eleven-twelfths of it. Is that democracy? Is that the way we want this country to be run? The Government is not doing this from any intuition that it is serving democracy; the Government is doing this because it believes that such a policy will favour the Australian Labor Party in votes. The Government wants to achieve' a situation where the Liberal and Country parties will have to poll 60 per cent of the votes to win government and so that the Australian Labor Party will be able to win government with only 40 per cent of the votes. 
We could even win on that basis, but there is no reason why we should make our task more difficult just because the Government wants to do it. What about this wonderful democratic principle that everyone over 18 years of age will have a vote? Can anyone tell me the person in Australia today who is over 18 who does not have the vote unless he is disqualified for reasons such as being in gaol or of unsound mind or something of that kind? The Government wants to go to the people with a referendum proposal to provide a vote for persons over 18 years, to distribute boundaries on the basis of people instead of on the basis of electors and to take away any possibility of distributing electorates on the basis of community of interest, distance and the whole geography of the country. Are we to pretend that the whole of Australia is urban? I have heard the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  condemning the fact that there is too much urban population. Now he wants a referendum which assumes that the totality of the Australian mainland is urban. It is nonsense to suggest that. 
As I have said, the Government has in mind a giant gerrymander. It is very generous with its wisdom, and it has decided that the bureaucrats in Canberra can run all the agencies of the State governments. It now proposes that the Commonwealth Parliament should run all the State parliaments because it says that whatever may be good for the Commonwealth Parliament, according to our likes, is good for the whole of the State parliaments so it will apply to the State parliaments exactly the same provisions. The Government proposes this extraordinary thing of going to the people in a referendum and saying: 'Command not only that the House of Representatives and the Senate shall be chosen directly, but that every State Parliament shall be also'. The only House of any State Parliament in Australia that is not chosen directly is the Upper House in New South Wales. Does anybody remember the referendum of the people of New South Wales on that very issue? 
The result was overwhelming, as the honourable member for Mackellar reminds me. But this Government will not accept the people's will. It proposes to impose its will. Next this Government says that every State electorate must be distributed on the basis of electors instead of people. It may interest the Government to know that democracy is not served in this way. Just to cite an example, in South Australia, the State electorate of Eyre is held by Graham Gunn. He has 9,441 electors in that electorate which covers 50 per cent of the area of South Australia. The adjoining electorate is Frome which covers 38 per cent of South Australia. That means that 88 per cent of the land mass of South Australia is in 2 electorates. Under the proposals put forward by this Government those 2 seats would become one seat; and that is democracy! What a lot of nonsense to give the Bill this title upon which people will have to vote. The wording was designed deliberately to deceive the people into voting on the basis that they want democratic elections. In fact what the Government is trying to do is to create the gerrymander of which I have spoken. We will oppose that referendum. 
The next Bill is another piece of deceit. This is what is being put to the Australian people as a matter of deceit. The fact is - this will not be denied because any honourable member opposite who denies it would be expelled from the Labor Party tomorrow, and I would like an honourable member opposite to tell me if he denies it - the Labor Party's policy is that there should be one House of Parliament for the whole of Australia, namely, the House of Representatives. The Prime Minister wants just this one House of Parliament. He wants a majority in it and he wants to treat his own people in the cavalier and dictatorial way that he has shown. He wants no balance of power at all. He wants to get rid of all the State governments.  His  method of doing this is to pretend to local government that if he were able to get rid of the State governments local government would be better off. 
Services in Australia are provided by the Commonwealth Government, by the State governments and by local governments. The taxpayers of Australia collectively contribute to provide the funds for the distribution of those services. The only way in which services will be upgraded is by greater efficiency or greater taxing. But the Labor Party pretends that it has a magic wand and that by a wave of that magic wand it can have a single House of Parliament, a single government, get rid of the States and have some sort of provincial arrangement. Members of the Labor Party think that that will serve their interests - the interests of socialism, the interests of authoritarianism and the interests of bureaucratism. They have the idea that the people in the Government buildings across from Parliament House possess all the wisdom in Australia. Can honourable members imagine a man sitting up on the ninth floor of the Treasury building - or are there only 6 floors; whichever floor he may be sitting on - saying: 'I believe that local government in Western Australia, out at Mukinbudin, would be better off by my wisdom than that of the local people*. That is exactly what he is saying. He is being invested by this Government with the. power to say that. Therefore the situation exists that the Labor Government asks: 'How are we going to persuade these hard-headed local government fellows to go along with this referendum?' So, the Government says: 'We will give you direct grants and we will raise loan funds for you'. 
There is only one reason and that is to serve their own interests. The 
Government will put conditions on the grants. Conditions are already put on grants made to the States. Can honourable members imagine those conditions being carried through to the level of services of the local government? And that gentleman in the Treasury building, or, say, in DURD - incidentally, what a magnificent name - is making these decisions. These decisions will be made on the basis that that Department will determine the conditions upon which money is granted and will audit the spending of it - that is, provided  Senator Cavanagh  does not run the Department. If he runs the Department there will be no audit at all. 
Thank you. You will be gone after the next election and we will all be happy about that. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. I refer to the prosecution of a man named McLeod in the Canberra court last Friday. I ask the honourable gentleman: Does he believe that the court was misled in that it was told that a gun in the possession of  Mr McLeod  was unloaded at the time he threatened officers of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs with it? 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Capital Territory. Precisely when did it become known to him that the weapon used in the confrontation at the Department of Aboriginal Affairs last week was, during that confrontation, in fact, loaded? Did he at any time use his influence or speak to anyone suggesting that the fact that the gun had been loaded during the confrontation should not become public knowledge? Has he spoken with members of the 
ACT Police or others involved in the legal proceedings following the incident? If so, to whom did he speak, when, and what was said? 
My question is addressed to the Treasurer. Inflation is driving up wages. These wages are causing people to enter into higher wage brackets. The income tax collected by the Commonwealth is likely to be at least 25 per cent higher this financial year than last financial year. When will the Treasurer or the Government restructure the tax scale to reduce this incredible burden of income tax? 
I wish to make a persona! explanation. 
Yes. This morning, in answering a question, the Prime Minister misrepresented me. He said that I, the Leader of the Opposition, did not materialise until after he had started to answer the question. This is a misrepresentation. I was standing in this chamber,  Mr Speaker,  when you took the chair, and I was present for prayers. It is a fact that I was in the chamber before you were,  Mr Speaker,  and remained in it. The Prime Minister made a false allegation and statement when he said I was not here. I ask for that to be withdrawn. 
I want the allegation withdrawn. 
I have not agreed to leave being granted. It is a simple issue of fact. I was here; the Prime Minister alleged that I was not. He should withdraw and apologise. There is no need to make a statement. 

 Mr WHITLAM (Werriwa- Prime Minister) - My interjection that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  had not materialised when I made the statement was made during an answer I gave to the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party, the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair).  The right honourable gentleman was taking a point of order in respect to an answer I had given to an earlier question by the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon).  For the first few questions this morning the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition was at the table, not the Leader of the Opposition. If the right honourable gentleman asserts that when I was answering an earlier question by the honourable member for Gippsland that he was in fact at the table, I accept that assurance. 

 Mr SNEDDEN (Bruce - Leader of the Opposition) -  Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes, I have been misrepresented along with everybody on this side of the House by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard).  The Minister, as you will have heard,  Mr Speaker,  said that despite the way the Opposition had treated his answer it was a very serious matter. That statement was made at the very end of his answer at the time when he disclosed to the House that 2 members of the Royal Australian Air Force had lost their lives and 2 members had been injured, and that 2 members of the Army had lost their lives and one had been injured, in providing aid to flood victims. That is a matter which would evoke from this side of the House the utmost sympathy for the relatives of the men and more particularly we would want to offer tribute to the way in which the service was carried out by the armed forces. By saying that we had treated the matter lightly the Minister was implying that we did not have that sympathy and understanding of the circumstances. We were misrepresented. It is important for me to say that there was great amusement or embarrassment on this side of the House and amusement or embarrassment displayed by a number of people on the Government side because the Minister was shuffling through papers and was unable to answer the question for a considerable time. 
No, I am not debating it; I am putting it in its context, lt was that about which we were so amused. It is a misrepresentation to imply that the laughter at the Minister himself showed a lack of sympathy and understanding for the immense job done by the Army and the RAAF. 
My question is addressed to the Treasurer. Is it not a fact that the Treasurer has said frequently that there is no magic about a day in August for economic management? If he believes that, why must the people of Australia wait until August for tax relief? Does he not realise that during the next 5 months the proportion of tax they will pay will climb and that the amount of money taken from them and put into Consolidated Revenue will injure their living standards? Why will the Treasurer not take action immediately to reduce income tax rates? 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
The Queen came to Australia and while here was asked to present a speech to the assembled House of the Parliament. The purpose of the speech was to bolster the flagging chances of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  of winning support at the Senate election. Of course everybody realised that when the Queen spoke in kind fashion about the Government, the Government had put those words in her mouth; it was' not any personal judgment of her own. We found that the speech as delivered was delivered in a most forthright way as one would expect of the Sovereign, but we found the speech lacking in reality in what the Queen was forced to say at the behest of the Government. She did her best, but upon listening to it, it was very difficult not to realise that the Government really had no plans for this coming session that would in any way improve the lot of the Australian people. What the Government claimed as dynamism and action has run out. The steam engine has lost its coal and there is no water, only the hot air that is left as a result of its former activities. 
We found it necessary to move amendments to the Address-in-Reply. We put down the amendments in clear form. The amendments amount to a catalogue of mismanagement of the economy and to making a difference between social standings of people and their economic expectation. The Government has created a great deal of frustration and fear for the future. Those are the things of which we are afraid, not just us as a Party but also the Australian people. The Government has in fact pushed us into an abyss and we are likely to stay in it for another 2 years. This will be disastrous for us. So I ask the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  who is at the table to run a message to his leader and say to him: 'The Opposition parties want an election of the House of Representatives to accompany the Senate election'. We want that election so that the people of Australia will have the opportunity to see what are the policies of the Labor Party compared with those of the Liberal and Country parties, and to decide whether they want to continue with this Government or would prefer to have us return to office. I have no doubt what the people's choice would be. But they cannot be given the choice unless the Prime Minister is prepared to take that action. I ask the Minister to add to the message that he takes to the. Prime Minister - please do not get it wrong like the boy scout - what we are saying is: Have an election for the House of Representatives with the election for the Senate. If any support is needed in arguing the case to the Governor-General I will go out, taking with me whichever colleagues the Government wants, in order to persuade the GovernorGeneral that he should allow such a course; that it is the will of the whole of the Parliament and that it is the will of the Australian people that we put the question to the test now. 
The Country Party wants it just as much as the Liberal Party wants it. If the Government is afraid of an election it should understand this: If an election of the House of Representatives is not held with the election of the Senate, the Prime Minister and his Party are acknowledging that they will have to continue to govern the country with a Senate which they describe as obstructionist or hostile. If they do not want a Senate that is obstructionist or hostile, let them put the matter to the test now. But of course they will not do it; they are afraid. The Prime Minister, in a policy speech in 1972 as the Leader of the Opposition, said that the Labor Party would present 'the most carefully developed and consistent program ever placed before the Australian people*. That claim has not been realised. It never had any prospect of being realised and certainly the past 15 months have proved that it has not been realised. 
The first concern that we have about conditions in Australia today is for inflation. I want to quote the words of a prominent public figure to support me in my belief that inflation is the most important problem facing Australia today. This prominent public figure said: 
Inflation is the major economic problem facing us today. It is altering the distribution of income in an arbitrary and often vicious way. It is robbing people by reducing the purchasing power of their savings. It is distorting resource allocation and encouraging a rush into supposedly inflation-proof real assets such as land or housing. It is anathema to all of us, and rightly so. 
That prominent public figure was the Prime Minister of Australia. He said that in September of 1973 - 6 months ago. What has been done by the Government since? The inflation rate has continued to climb. In September, 6 months ago, inflation was at an annual rate of perhaps 10 per cent. Today inflation is at an annual rate of 14 per cent. That is the way in which the Prime Minister has responded to the responsibility which he knows he bears. I tell the House that it is my belief - and I am sure it is shared not only by members on this side of the House but also by members on the other side of the House, for whom the sole representatives are those who are about to lose their seats, with the exception of the 
Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly),  who is at the table, and the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman),  who is likely to survive with a much reduced majority - that this is the importance that the Government places upon the resolution of the economic problems of Australia. Government supporters are probably out in the Caucus room having a fight, if the truth is known. But they certainly have no interest in this issue. 
Inflation brings its greatest harm to the industrially weak, the fixed income earners, the students and the pensioners on fixed incomes. They have to rely upon a Government handout; they have to plead for increases. The aged and the poor have no opportunity to protect themselves against inflation. The Government, through the Treasurer  (Mr Crean),  today said with a flash of brilliant wisdom that a 10 per cent rate of inflation is not as bad as 14 per cent. Of course, nought per cent is not as bad as 10 per cent. That is the sort of thinking that goes on in the Treasurer's mind. Those people who are superannuitants, who have saved during their lifetime and are now living in retirement on the proceeds of many years of superannuation payments or life insurance policy payments now see their standard of living crash about them. Anybody in Australia over the age of 50, who is approaching retirement, must be in very real doubt as to his future capacity to maintain his social and living standards. The Government has no care for these problems. The average wage earner is certainly being very badly hit as he tries to support his family.  His  wages are increasing but the price of goods and the personal income tax he pays are increasing even further. When the policy speech of the Labor Party was announced in 1972 no specific mention was made of inflation. The reason for that is that in 1972 inflation was not an issue. We, as a government, had inflation under control better than any other country in the industrialised world. When we were in government inflation was at a rate of  4i  per cent. At the time of the 1972 election inflation was not an issue. The Government as it now is, the Opposition as it then was, made unemployment the big issue. But now inflation has climbed to 13.2 per cent on any measurement. It is the highest rate of inflation of any developed country. But while it was not an issue in the 1972 policy speech of the Labor Party, when the Queen made her Speech in the Senate she read out the words prepared by the Government, which stated thus: 
My Government believes the economy is basically strong and buoyant. 
Out of deference to the Queen, there was not amusement when she said that. She then went on to say for the Government: 
Nevertheless, it regards inflation as a most urgent domestic problem .... 
Yet, let honourable members search the Queens' Speech if they like, but they will not find anywhere in it a program proposed by the Government to bring inflation under control. The Government has no policy at all to control inflation. Depending on the exigency of the time and what statistics the Government is defending, it will declare inflation to be an imported inflation or a domestic inflation. In the days of the imported inflation theory, the Government revalued the currency very greatly, imposed a onethird deposit on money coming into the country and told all foreign investors they were not welcome and to depart. The Government certainly achieved each of the aims that it wanted to achieve except that its actions had no impact whatever on inflation. There was an outflow of capital, our reserves dropped, but with no result on inflation. 
Then the Government switched to the domestic argument. A 25 per cent tariff cut right across the board was implemented without any examination of the issues. That had no effect on inflation at all. If honourable members examine the quarterly figures for 1972-73 and the consumer price index they tell their own story. In March 1972 the consumer price index increased by 1 per cent, in June 1972 by 9 per cent, in September 1972 by 1.4 per cent and in December 1972 by 1.2 per cent. In the March quarter 1973 the consumer price index rose by 2.1 per cent, in the June quarter by 3.3 per cent, in the September quarter by 3.6 per cent and in the December quarter by 3.6 per cent. That is merely a measurement but people know the way prices have climbed. 
I suppose there will be some hope in the Treasurer's mind that the March figure may come down a little because the March quarter is traditionally a low increase quarter. But this will not mean that the underlying rate of inflation is declining. It cannot decline until the Government takes positive action. 
The 1973 Budget was an expansionary Budget. In that Budget the Treasurer said that he expected personal income tax collections in this financial year to be $ 1,089m more than they were last year. From a base of just over S4.000, the Treasurer said that that would be an increase of 23 per cent. But he based his calculations on average weekly earnings increasing by 13 per. cent for the year. In fact average weekly earnings will increase by approximately 20 per cent. In fact, the amount of personal income tax which will be collected from the Australian public this year will be $ 1,500m more than it was last year, which is an increase of 36 per cent. That is the way in which the Government is harvesting inflation. It does not want to cure inflation. It wants to harvest inflation and to put that money into the the Consolidated Revenue Fund. 
As I am reminded by  Mr Lynch,  the  Deputy  'Leader of the Opposition, that is an extra $200 a taxpayer. Wages have increased but the public has less purchasing power. Each dollar, as each year goes by, buys less. Tax scales today are quite irrelevant to real wages. This fact highlights the plight of lower and middle income earners.  Mr Whitlam,  as Leader of the Opposition in 1972, in introducing the policy speech of the Labor Party said - and I emphasise his opening words: 
The most pressing need in the tax field is to retard the trend by which inflation has forced lower and middle income earners into the high tax brackets. The Liberals have imposed huge, silent tax increases by the simple expedient of leaving the tax schedules basically unchanged since 19S4. 
We did not really know how to do it! The accusation was that we had done so. But in one year this Government has garnered $ 1,500m - an increase of 36 per cent in the tax revenue. The Government promised that it would not increase taxation, yet it has increased personal taxation by 36 per cent. 
I shall continue to read the words of the Prime Minister. He said: 
Inflation has done the rest, so that modest income earners of, say, $6,000, are being taxed at rates appropriate for very high income earners by 1954 standards. 
No mention was made in the Sovereign's Speech, the week before last, about this pressing necessity to give relief to lower and middle income earners. Not a single word was spoken about it. I should like the House to think of that figure which the Prime Minister used in 1972- the $6,000 earner. The $6,000 earner of 1972 is the $7,000 earner of today. What has happened to that chap? If he has a wife and 2 children his tax has risen, as a result of the extra $1,000 income, from $970 to $1,320. That is a $350 tax increase on a $1,000 wage increase.  His  net increase after income tax is 1 3 per cent. The proportion of his $6,000 wage in 1972 going in taxation was 18.8 per cent. The proportion of his $7,000 wage going in income tax today is 21.4 per cent. In fact, he has a net increase of 13 per cent. Is he 13 per cent better off? Not a bit of it, because prices have increased by 13.2 per cent. He is actually worse off. If one concedes that food prices have increased by 23 per cent and he has a wife and children to keep, he is positively worse off. This is what a year of Labor Gov,ernment has done for the average income earner, and there is no suggestion by the Treasurer that the man on $7,000 is in the lower income scale. He is the sort of fellow who will have his income tax increased. 
In the 1972 Budget I, as Treasurer, announced a 10 per cent cut in income tax. That is the lie to the Treasurer today saying that I had been in office and had done nothing about income tax. In fact the 10 per cent cut in August 1972 had been preceded by a  2$  per cent cut in April 1972, which was additional. The total tax foregone was well over $600m as a result. Anything less than a cut of $600m today can be seen as nothing but miniscule. Unless there is a $600m cut immediately everybody in Australia will have to continue to bear a greater burden on their back until they can carry it no longer. When we were in government we established the Asprey Committee to examine all aspects of taxation and to give us advice on the restructuring of the tax scale. 
What was the next thing to happen to this $7,000 a year earner? If he has a mortgage on his house and it is a building society mortgage he has found that the interest rate has increased by more than 2 per cent. What is the position of anybody who wants to borrow money for whatever purpose? Let us not forget that all of us borrow money at some time. It is no disgrace. In fact it is a way by which people can buy their standard of living now and pay for it later. The Government claims it is the cheap interest party. It spent years uttering the boring claim that it would provide low interest rates. It took it 9 months in office to increase interest rates from 6 per cent to  Si  per cent on the long-term bond rate and to a much higher level than  8i  per cent on all other borrowing. There is nobody borrowing on a mortgage, borrowing on hire purchase, seeking a business loan or a personal loan who is not paying something like 10 per cent today. 
Yes. They find that when they can borrow money - there is a shortage of money because the Government has created a liquidity crisis - the cost of land has gone up, the cost of building has increased and the amount they borrow leaves a deposit gap between what they have to pay and what they can borrow. The result is that there has been a strong plummeting down of building approvals and especially of building commencements. The Labor Party, before it came to government, said that the worst thing a government can do is to deprive people of their own house. That is precisely what this Government is doing. 
What has it done to try to conquer inflation? What it has done is to say that it supports automatic quarterly adjustments to wages according to the consumer price index. It does not call them automatic quarterly adjustments any more; it has a flash new name. It calls it 'indexation'. All that means is that wages are increased according to the way prices rise. If costs are increased, prices rise. They force each other up. When we got rid of this system 20 years ago everybody in Australia said Thank goodness' because it was so inflationary. Now, as a bold new initiative, this Government is to reintroduce it. The Government used that as a diversionary tactic in the referendum recently, but Australians were not fooled. 
I turn now to the question of a 35-hour week. The Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  says that there will be no 35-hour week for the Commonwealth Public Service.  Dr Cairns,  the Minister for whatever he has been reduced to, says that there should bc no 35-hour week for the Commonwealth Public Service. But the Prime Minister says that there will be a 35-hour week for the Commonwealth Public Service. No wonder there is contusion and uncertainty. That is one thing, but let us consider the broader field. The Minister for Labour has announced that the Government will support in the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission a 35-hour week for the power industry. He encourages the application to be made and says that the 
Government will support it, knowing that it must spread across the board. I cannot think of anything which has so much madness in it as encouraging a 35-hour week with the economy in its present inflationary condition, a shortage of labour and a shorage of supplies of goods and services. It is madness'. 
If one considers the Public Service one finds an extraordinary growth which results really from a belief by this Government that all wisdom, strength and administrative purpose is here in Canberra. Only here are people sensible, apparently, according to the Government. There has been competition between Ministers to build their empires. In the first 10 months of 1973 - I do not have later figures but no doubt the growth has continued at the same rate - there was an increase of 2H5 Second Division officers in the Commonwealth Public Service. Each of these officers is in a salary range of from $17,000 to $27,000 a year. When one makes such an appointment that is not the end of the story. Each appointee must have staff to service him. He needs accommodation, furniture and capital investment in a building. 
I am told that the fat cats have kittens. In the first 10 months of 1973 there were created 157 new divisions and branches of the Commonwealth Public Service. The extra wages of public servants newly created - I make it clear that I am referring to newly appointed Commonwealth servants and their wages, not increases in the wages of previously appointed public servants - amounts to more than $150m a year. That is enough money to give every pensioner - invalid, widow and age - in Australia more than $2 a week extra. Where is the priority in the realities? 
We would, in government, reduce public sector spending. We would arrest the growth of the Commonwealth Public Service. We would cut taxation. We would immediately restructure the tax scales. We would reduce the growth in the monetary supply. We would reduce interest rates. I recall the famous statement of the Prime Minister, or Leader of the Opposition as he was in 1972, in his policy speech: 
Labor will  deliberately  plan to reduce interest rates. 
That was an error; he meant 'increase'. We would, in government, call a national conference which the Prime Minister refuses to do. 

 His own Treasurer today said that the Government will not tackle inflation until it gets the employers and employees together cooperatively. We need to do that. A conference is now half supported by the Treasurer. It is fully supported by the State Premiers and it is now fully supported by  Dr Ironmonger  of the Melbourne Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research. Why will the Prime Minister not call such a conference so that inflation can be discussed and cured? 
The Budget deficit for the first half year was $ 1,860m. In a high state of inflation the Budget deficit for a half year was $ 1,860m, some $300m more than it was last year. 
There can be no area where there is so much confusion as in the resources field. It is exemplified in the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill and in the Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill. The Prime Minister said quite clearly 2 years ago - not now, not any more, but 2 years ago - that the Australian Industry Development Corporation Act would be amended so that the Labor Party's socialist program could be achieved. That is the purpose. It is covered up with high sounding words about Australian ownership, but its purpose is the socialisation of industry in Australia. The Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill provides for the expenditure of $50m of the taxpayers funds. That is a lot of money, but $50m is nothing when you start out on oil exploration. It is a peanut when you look at the cost of oil exploration throughout Australia and throughout the world. This Government wants to make every taxpayer in Australia an unwilling ticket holder in an oil exploration lottery. We do not want that. It is an extraordinary thing. Honourable members may have heard the Prime Minister, on occasions when something has happened, say that it is a first. He seems to be very taken up with this idea of a first. I have another first from him. As the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  said today, in this time of oil difficulties, shortages of supply and high costs, Australia and Canada are the only 2 countries where a motorist can drive up to a petrol bowser and get his requirements. All other countries of the world are in difficulty and here is a first for Australia. It is the first and only country of the world which has cut down its exploration for oil. 
As my colleague, the honourable member for Hotham says, that is brilliant. It is a brilliant piece of insanity, a piece of insanity for which the Australian people will pay for decades to come. This is what this Government has given us. 
I come to defence. Our national security has been jeopardised. The Government promised in its policy speech of 1972 that it would spend 3.5 per cent of the gross national product on defence. The first Budget, introduced in 1973, had a figure of 2.9 per cent. With inflation running at the rate it is, the real spending will be no more than 2.5 per cent. Inflation will cut back the spending on defence, but there are other cutbacks that have been made deliberately as an act of policy. I refer to cutbacks in personnel, both military and civilian, flying and steaming time, apprenticeship training, equipment programs and vital research and development. The DDL destroyer program has been scrapped, the Mirage squadron has been disbanded, morale has fallen and resignations are at a record level. The Queen's Speech refers to the hope of the Australian Government for world disarmament. I can only conclude that it is starting with Australia. 
In government we will restore defence spending, build up the armed forces, ensure military control of military decisions, reassess the armed forces equipment program and put special emphasis on the development of sophisticated research and development programs. There will be close liaison between military and non-military and scientific and Technological development. We will continue the assessment of the terms and conditions of military service and pay. We will look at retirement benefits as reported to us by the commission appointed to fulfil this task and we will increase the role of women. 
We come now to Commonwealth-State relations. The whole purpose of this Government is to undermine the independence and responsibility of the States. There is no secret about the socialist ideology to concentrate all power in Canberra, to get rid of the second House - the Senate - and to make one man all powerful. That is the purpose of it. We, the Opposition parties, have a totally different view. The Commonwealth has exerted more control, more pressure, more strings and more conditions and has abused section 96 of the Constitution to try to make the States the vassals of the Commonwealth. Section 96 is necessary, but it is not necessary to apply such stringent conditions and to pretend that all wisdom lives on the shores of Lake Burley Griffin. That is a pretence that we must throw away. State governments are elected. They have their separate responsibilities to their electors. For example, if the report of the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads were adopted stringent conditions would apply to every portion of finance. All State Ministers, Liberal and Labor alike, have agreed that the States should determine their own priorities for road construction. How can a man sitting on the fourth floor of a building here in Canberra know the best place for a road in Perth, Adelaide, Brisbane or one of the regional cities? 
The central point of Commonwealth-State relationships is finance. The Liberal Party is committed to a federal system. The nation should strive to achieve genuine co-operative federalism and not the conflict and confrontation which this Government has achieved. Possession of financial power by the Federal Government does not necessarily make it the sole source of administrative wisdom. The Liberal and Country Party Government will allocate to the States predetermined shares of finance. The State governments must maintain their independence, and we as a government will ensure that they do. 
I come now to the ministerial ineptitude which has been displayed to us. This will take a great deal of time. There has been a growth of inequality and disunity in the community. There is a lack of faith and confidence in the Government. As it is expressed constantly, What will it do next?' 
I speak of the Prime Minister first. He said that there would be open government. That promise has been dishonoured. He said: 'We want the Australian people to know the facts.' Of course that was in December 1972. What in fact has happened? The interdepartmental committees which he promised he would make public, he has cloaked in secrecy despite his undertaking. There have been constant leaks. The Coombs report was left on a tram. Imagine, it was discovered on a tram. The Washington-Canberra exchange of cables about the bombing of Hanoi fell into the possession of one of the members of the Parliamentary Press Gallery and the contents were disclosed. Just by chance they fell into his bands. The Priority Review Staff report just by chance was disclosed in full in the National Times'. No ombudsman has been appointed. There has been no Freedom of Information Act. No Public Service restrictions have been changed; they have been left as they were. 
There have been Caucus clashes. The Prime Minister has more than once put his job on the line. We expect it will become a weekly episode. It no longer attracts such public attention. 
The Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  is a would-be Minister for Foreign Affairs. The Prime Minister said that only he would speak on foreign affairs. The Minister for Overseas Trade constantly talks on foreign affairs. Then there was that incredible contretemps between the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  and the Minister for Labor. The Minister for Immigration said: 'I will ask the Commonwealth Immigration Advisory Council if I can bring in 20,000 more migrants'. The Minister for Labor said: No, do not do that. The biggest problem we face is unemployment'. He was saying that up until a week ago. Now he advises that labour is of such short store that we need more migrants.  Mr Grassby,  of course, has made such a fool of himself that he will not be able to recruit the migrants. 
We had the Crean-Cameron dispute on the major economic issue.  Mr Crean  said it was inflation;  Mr Cameron  said it was unemployment. Then we had the clash between  Mr Whitlam  and  Mr Hawke  when  Mr Hawke  was asked: 'Please do not come to the State Conference of the Australian Labor Party'. He is only the Federal  President  of the ALP, but he was asked not to attend the Conference. 
Then we have example of the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  in whose field we have seen the dismantling of the defence structure, a reduction of expenditure, the collapse of morale and record resignations. The Minister now accepts that the North-West Cape installation is essential to Australia's security. This is the base that the left wing of the Labor Party has never supported and never will support. In fact, members of the left wing of the Labor Party intend to go by bus to North West Cape next month to protest. 
The Minister for Immigration has been a double failure. He has been an accomplice in attacks on the rural area which he represents. He has failed to live up to what he has promised his electors. The honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  - the Minister for Sugar - has done the same.  Dr Patterson  has let his people down. But the Minister for Immigration has gone over to Ireland and Italy. During his visits to those countries he sent back the most magnificient stories about the brilliant welcomes that he received. It has been discovered that he wrote them himself. The Minister has cancelled the easy visa system as it applied to Fiji. He must have taken this action against the advice of his Department. Today the Fijian Press is saying: 'Was this a cruel hoax?' What does such action do for our relations with the countries of the South Pacific? Then there was the special workers scheme under which the Minister said that we would take in skilled workers from the Philippines. Now it appears that this scheme has been abandoned. The Prime Minister went to the Philippines and grandstanded on the matter. The previous Government wanted reforms but it went about achieving them quietly and effectively. As a result we have now an intake of about 8,000 or 9,000 people who have been integrated into our community. The Prime Minister grandstanded on this issue. But the whole scheme proposed by the Government will collapse. There will be a reaction to it. What will this do to our relations with the Philippines? 
The Postmaster-General  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  is the man who said to the posties: 'You can have a 5 day week'. Then when the other postal workers said that they too wanted a 5- day week the Postmaster-General represented himself as a hero who was going to sell money orders and stamps in milk bars. But the hero phase did not last long. It has gone, and now it is only the poor public that does not have the services. The Postmaster-General has always had this attitude.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I seek leave to table a photograph which appeared in the 'Sydney Morning Herald' of 2 October 1973 in which the PostmasterGeneral is seen walking under canvases which say: 'Five day week for all postal workers'. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. With inflation acknowledged by the Government to be a major economic problem in Australia today at an annual rate of 13 per cent and more, and with the latest Treasury report released today showing that the economy is experiencing a seriously tight labour situation and, to quote from the report, 'widespread shortages of goods and materials', does the Prime Minister agree that it would be madness to reduce working hours? Will he give an assurance that the Government will oppose any attempts to introduce a 35-hour week whether pursued in the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission or by strikes? 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Is there any inter-departmental committee or committees considering any aspects of the proposed bilateral treaty with Japan to formalise, stabilise and broaden relations between Australia and Japan in economic and related fields. 
asked the Minister for Northern Development, upon notice: 
Who is conducting the investigation into the industrialisation of the Bowen Basin region in Northern Queensland. 
What is the purpose of the studies. 
What progress has been made with them. 
When is it expected that the investigation will be completed. 
Will a report be prepared as a result of the investigation; if so, will the report be tabled. 
asked the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice: 
With reference to the answer to question No. 717 (Hansard, 23 August 1973, page 401) in which the Minister for Science indicated that the Department of the Northern Territory and the Consumer Affairs Council undertakes activities which bear directly or indirectly on consumer protection, which section or sections of his Department and those of the Consumer Affairs Council are involved in such activities. 
What are these activities. 
How many officers of his Department and how many officers of the Consumer Affairs Council are involved in this work. 
I direct my question to the Prime Minister, ls it a fact that the Government has announced plans to use the Department of the Media for a major public relations campaign to serve the propaganda purposes of this Labor Government? Does the staff establishment involved in public relations in all departments excluding the Department of the Media, exceed 425? Are the costs associated with public relations in all departments, excluding the Department of the Media, estimated at more than $10m this year? Is it a fact that the Department of the Media itself has more than 210 staff, including 50 journalists of grade Al level and that there are proposals for upgrading the role of the Department of the Media? Does the Government intend to proceed with this blatant misuse of taxpayers funds? Does it propose to cut back on the extent of public relations expenditure in the Department of the Media and in other departments? 
 Last week, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  reported on his visit to South East Asia and stated his reasons for going there. He wanted to emphasise to leaders in South East Asia the continuing and undiminished importance of South East Asia to Australia. I would go further and stress, as I did during my own visit to that area, the increasing importance of South East Asia to Australia's outlook on the world. The Prime Minister said that another reason for his visit was 'to dispel any misunderstandings' about his Government's foreign policy. That he needed to explain misunderstandings so soon after coming into office is a testimony to his own poor performance as Minister for Foreign Affairs and the babble of ministerial tongues with which he has to compete. 
In the past year the Labor Government's foreign policy has Been incoherent, abrasive and inconsistent, lt has left Australians and the world confused. We have the Prime Minister's own confession of this in relation to his visit to South East Asia. He said that he had to go to South East Asia to dispel misunderstandings. To cover the shortcomings and inconsistencies of his Government's actions the Prime Minister has repeatedly stressed the continuity of his foreign policy with that of the previous Government. When it suits the Prime Minister he says that there has been great change. When he is in trouble he says that there has been no change. The Prime Minister, without modesty or justification, describes himself as Australia's greatest Foreign Minister. 
He said it himself about himself. Now, with the same immodesty, he says that in his 8 overseas visits in 15 months he has, and I quote his words, 'done more' in the Asian-Pacific region than any former Prime Minister. He has certainly travelled more and he has certainly been out of Australia more. Yet his most recent visit overseas was to dispel misunderstandings. Australians would be happier if the Prime Minister could say that in his visits abroad he had achieved more. But he has not. He has produced no enduring humanitarian program such as the Colombo Plan. Where is 'his ANZUS pact? He may snarl at ANZUS but he has to live with it, unwilling though he may be. Where are his practical proposals and his realistic ideas for broader cooperation in the Asian and Pacific regions? He has not spelled them out. He knows that his forum proposal can continue to live - crippled though it is - only while it remains vague and cannot be examined in detail. 
The Prime Minister laid great emphasis on trade and economic links with the countries of our region. Of course he should. 
This is not a new attitude. Previous LiberalCountry Party Governments achieved much in these relations. They are essential elements in the relationship with our neighbours. The Prime Minister acknowledged our Government's - that is, previous Government's - contribution by saying: Australia has 'long established and valued trading ties' with all the countries that he visited. Who does he suppose created them? 
The Minister for Science and Minister assisting the Minister for Foreign Affairs says by way of interjection that the development of those trade ties has been the achievement of China. What an extraordinary thing for him to say. What an incredible thing for him to say. What a most extraordinary thing to say. 
During my recent visit to Indonesia and Singapore I emphasised the scope that exists for Australia to expand its trade with both countries and others in South East Asia. Leaders I spoke with stressed the importance of these relationships to their countries. As an example, there could be special scope for increasing trade between Australia and Indonesia. I suggested while I was there - I will repeat the suggestion now; I know that it would be acceptable to the Indonesians - that it would certainly be an improvement if Australia were to have consulates throughout Indonesia. The number of tourists in Indonesia, particularly Bali, make it essential. We need to get out beyond Jakarta and have consulates in Sumatra and eastern Indonesia. 
Do honourable members know that a piece of timber from eastern Indonesia goes right through the Indonesian Archipelago to Europe where it is trans-shipped to Fremantle before it ends up on a building project in Darwin. In other words, it has to travel 10,000 or 15,000 miles although its place of origin is only about 500 miles from where it is used. Such is the way in which we need to develop trading relations with Indonesia. 
Special trade preferences for developing countries were initiated by the Liberal-Country Party Government which led the world in this respect. It gave an example to the rest of the world. It created a whole new concept which has been of immense benefit to the developing countries. They should continue to be developed to encourage greater trade with our neighbours. Where is the equivalent initiative of the Prime Minister - the greatest 
Foreign Minister, the man who has said that he has given Australia a new standing in the world and that, in some mystical way, we walk taller? He has been reading too many novels or descriptive accounts of a cricket match. 
And he has said: Mirror, mirror on the wall, tell me true: Who is the fairest in all the land?' 
The Liberal Party would increase assistance for the economic development of the countries of the region, particularly technical training. In Jakarta and Singapore I made it clear that Australia should look at the possibility of sending teachers and instructors to the countries concerned to provide more extensive training on the spot. I believe that there has been too much emphasis in the past on tertiary - particularly university - training. Most of our neighbours now have excellent tertiary institutions themselves. Many countries in South East Asia now want and need to have the capacity to build up their technical and managerial skills. In this field we Australians have much to offer. We ought to be ready to do so and we should investigate ways of doing so. In government we would vigorously pursue this important co-operative assistance. 
There is scope for co-operation in joint business and development ventures which will contribute to the development of countries in the region. Indonesia, for example, has special provisions for such investment co-operation. The Government should investigate means of encouraging Australian investment through such channels. This must always be done under the terms set by the recipient country itself, which would therefore suit the needs as it sees them. When we were in government we released Australian overseas investment. When we return to government we will encourage an increasing flow of overseas investment from Australia to those developing countries. 
There are several related areas where Australia ought to be actively considering increased co-operation. The infrastructure in many countries has developed to the point where new forms of assistance might be more valuable - for example, assistance with business and industrial development, civil aviation, tourism, managerial skills, science and technology. We believe that such assistance should place particular emphasis on the process of job creation as a basic stimulus to development and the means by which the growth of social equity can occur in those countries through the payment of increased wages for the increasing skills of those engaged in jobs. 
Australia must seek a new partnership for development with its neighbours. This is an obligation compelled by our own good fortune. Such co-operation and development would contribute to regional security and stability. We must co-ordinate our own official and private co-operative programs more effectively. 1 do not speak simply of aid but of the whole range of programs and policies which make up a co-operative relationship for development with our neighbours. 
We must consult closely and frequently with the other countries involved. In consultation with others we believe Australia should encourage the formulation of a regional development strategy by donor and recipient countries in the Asian and Pacific region. As a first practical step I have suggested that consideration should be given to consultation at an official level between the Association of South East Asian Nations and the South Pacific Forum's Bureau for Economic Co-operation. Those 2 organisations encompass the same types of inquiries in the one region as in the other and share very many common interests. For example, each of them is today reexamining its relationships with the Common Market. Each of them needs therefore to understand the way in which the other is tackling the matter and what benefits one can receive from the other. 
Such consultations, which would depend upon the agreement of all the countries concerned, could lead to co-ordination of effort in several fields, especially to the exchange of technical knowledge and expertise relating to their common social and economic problems. This would not mean the duplication of existing organisations nor would it overlap existing regional arrangements. It has been proposed that there should be some form of quadripartite arrangement between Australia, New Zealand, Indonesia and Papua New Guinea to get the 2 regions together. But what is the point of creating a new artificial regional organisation merely to have co-operation between the 2 quite finite and definite regional arrangements? Consultations between ASEAN and the South Pacific Forum's Bureau of Economic Co-operation would be a practical and a positive means of achieving more effective regional co-operation and could make a significant contribution to growth and security in the Asian-Pacific region. 
We would develop a program of assistance to ASEAN projects where it is agreed that Australia could provide special expertise or experience. At the same time we would continue our bilateral assistance to each country of ASEAN. We would want to establish formal contact directly with ASEAN through its permanent secretariat. We would make the Ambassador or the High Commissioner to that country the formal point of communications with ASEAN so that we could receive its proposals for regional development where we were to give direct aid to the region as distinct from aid to. the individual countries forming the region. 
The Prime Minister has said that his Government is the most genuinely internationalist government Australia has ever had. He deludes himself. He has based this conclusion on his own assertion that isolationism is not a policy option that is available to Australia. Of course it is not an option that is open to Australia. It never has been an option that is open; it never will be an option that is open. Putting aside his own self assertion, what has the Prime Minister done, apart from his frequent and expensive trips overseas, to warrant the accolade he has given himself that his is the most internationalist government Australia has ever had? He has cited the recognition of China. In government we were moving to that. What we objected to was the precipitate way in which Australia prostrated itself to the Chinese and pleaded for recognition on any terms. That is what we objected to. We thought it proper to have a relationship on the basis of an equality of points of view and we would have negotiated it properly. But it has happened and we accept the present position. 
The Prime Minister has also cited black Africa. In Government we established diplomatic missions in Nigeria, Ghana, Kenya and Tanzania with the responsibilities of those missions covering the whole of black Africa. Where was his initiative? It was ours. He has cited relations with Eastern Europe. In government we had diplomatic missions in Moscow and Belgrade. The decision had already been taken to open an embassy in Warsaw. The Government claims that it did that; that is false. We had negotiated for an embassy in East Germany. The accords needed only to be signed. They were signed after the present Government came into office. Now the present Government claims that it was its initiative. That is not the fact. 
What further initiatives has the Prime Minister taken to back up this assertion which has no foundation? He did not mention it last week, but earlier he made much of his fleeting visit to Mexico as a new initiative in South America. What new missions has he established in South America? It was we in government who established the South American missions. What new initiatives has he taken in that continent of well over 200 million people? Incidentally, what happened to his proposal about a natural resources cartel of the world - a restrictive trade practice which could only beget a reaction from the user countries? Fortunately the proposal has been abandoned. It should never have been mentioned. 
Foreign policy is not simply a matter of public relations, nor can its progress or value be measured by the number of countries that a Prime Minister can tally up as having visited. The Liberal Party asserts the interdependence of nations. We accept the need for an international outlook, particularly for a country placed as Australia is. We do not accept mere vague or assertive internationalism as a basis for foreign policy decision making. We base our foreign policy on the development of strong direct relationships with other countries, with special emphasis on those of most immediate relevance to Australia. 
The Prime Minister also has referred to his unprecedented' contacts with student leaders. 1 trust that he found the exchanges as stimulating, informative and enjoyable as I did when I was in Jakarta and had some hours of discussion with the student leaders in Indonesia before he had got to whatever university it was that he visited. It gave a new dimension and perspective to my visit. I welcome the fact that the Prime Minister did this, but for goodness sake do not let him think that it was unprecedented and that in some mystical way he is the only person who even thinks of informing himself directly from talks with people in other countries. 
As a self-proclaimed internationalist the Prime Minister has taken as the basis for his foreign policy formulation a number of matters which must be seen as long term aspirations. The length of the term nobody can know. I refer to such matters as the Indian Ocean zone of peace, the South East Asia neutrality proposals and the Prime Minister's own battered Asian-Pacific forum. Would anybody be so base as to call them unreallisable? Who will not endorse them as aspirations? 
But who would say that the conditions for their existence are present today? Nobody could dare say it at the risk of misleading himself and his country. The folly arises when the Prime Minister makes foreign policy decisions as if the conditions already exist which would give substance to these aspirations. This is unrealistic and naive. 
The Government has fallen into this error in its condemnation of the American decision to upgrade Diego Garcia in the Indian Ocean. It opposes the proposal on the basis that it will prevent the achievement of a zone of peace. The Malaysians who put forward the proposal for a neutral zone in South East Asia are more realistic. This view makes sense only if the other conditions for the establishment of a zone of peace exist. They do not. The reality is that the Soviet Navy has built up its presence in the Indian Ocean in recent years, and will build it up further when the Suez Canal opens. It is in Australia's security interests in present circumstances for the United States to maintain the balance of naval forces in the Indian Ocean. The Liberal Party therefore welcomes the decision of the United States Government because it is in Australia's interests to do so. The Government, in a comedy, objected to this build-up of the forces in Diego Garcia. The Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Senator Willesee)  issued a statement saying that the Government objected to this build-up of forces in Diego Garcia. I sent a member of my staff around to get a copy of the statement but I was told that I could not have a copy, that it was only for the Press. 
The Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  recently acknowledged that the United States North West Cape installation is an essential element in Australian security. Diego Garcia is complementary to the North West Cape installation in overall United States defence planning. The Government's criticism of the United States decision on Diego Garcia is therefore totally inconsistent with the Defence Minister's views on the North West Cape base. It may not be accepted by the Left, but it has been publicly accepted by the Minister for Defence. 
Current realities must be the fundamental determinants of foreign policy. It cannot be based on uncertain concepts and aspirations no matter how worthy they may be as long term aims. It is this perverse approach to foreign policy that has contributed to the Labor Party's off-handed treatment of Australian security and defence forces. It places heavy reliance on the detente assumption and the no threat assumption. These are static assumptions in an uncertain and complex international situation. Because one can see no threat to Australia in the future it does not mean that there will be no threat to Australia in the future. If we adopted that attitude we would be prepared to commit Australia to the position of being a hostage to international fortune. I would not lead a party which was prepared to accept that, and I know that it is the view of every one in my Party that we will not be held hostages to international fortune. That would be our attitude as a coalition government. 
The Liberal Party and the Country Party believe that the decision to withdraw Australian troops from Singapore was wrong. Our commitment to the ANZUK force was a gesture symbolising our commitment to the security of the region. It emphasised our willingness to co-operate in a practical way with our neighbours in the interests of regional security. It also stressed our commitment to the spirit as well as the letter of the FivePower Arrangements. It is worth noting that in his statement last week the Prime Minister abandoned his pretence of honouring the spirit of the Five-Power Arrangements. He left that out not by accident but deliberately. 
When returned to government we will discuss with the other partners the whole question of regional defence co-operation. We will ascertain what part we can play in cooperation, and we will play it. 
The ANZUK decision is difficult to reconcile with the Prime Minister's announcement during his recent overseas visit that a Mirage squadron would be retained in Malaysia. I endorse that decision, but it is contrary to the assumptions underlying the ANZUK decision on the withdrawal. It is precisely this inconsistency and confusion that has caused the misunderstanding that the Prime Minister now sees the need to dispel. In foreign policy decisions must be made on the basis of an understanding of the total international situation, which is in a constant process of change. 
At present new great power relationships are emerging, new super power defence concepts are being discussed as SALT II gets under way, the international monetary and trade situation is increasingly complex, the oil crisis has raised new and uncertain problems, and the broader matter of resources and energy intrude more into foreign policy. 
There is the prospect of the development of a new relationship between the Soviet Union and Japan particularly in the development of Siberia. Japan and China have established a new dialogue. The energy situation has posed a new challenge to all nations. In the long run it is likely to be the developing nations that will suffer most. Its impact upon Japan will raise real problems for that country which will have a secondary effect upon Australia. There is change in Western Europe symbolised in Britain's crisis and the French decision to float the franc. The recent Middle East crisis raised a new element of uncertainty in relations between the Soviet Union and the United States. 
These events have their impact on Australia and influence our outlook on the world. They emphasise the fluidity of the international situation and the risk of static assumptions in the making of foreign policy. Foreign policy decisions under the present Government are based on uncertain assumptions and distant aspirations rather than immediate realities in a complex and fluid international situation. 
In government we would respond positively and constructively to the realities of the situation in the world and the regions around us. We would demonstrate our friendship, our responsibility and our willingness to assist and thereby attempt to influence the course of events which will affect Australia,, acknowledging that all other countries wish to do the same. We would be co-operative but firm in our own national interest. 
We would develop relationships with our allies and with our neighbours to the point of enduring friendship. We would honour our treaty obligations and make it clear to all other countries that they can rely upon us to do so. We would expect from other countries the same honourable discharge of their obligations to us. We would put greater store in the quality of direct relationships than in a vague internationalism. 
Recognising the immense potential this country has and knowing the idealism of the Australian people we would continue to expand our aid programs. 
We wish to be seen and known as a nation responding to reality but hoping to influence the march of events towards the achievement of world peace by responsible and concerned action by the Australian people. 
Sitting suspended from 1.1 to 2.15 p.m. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Further to question No. 1553 of 6 December 1973 will he immediately seek the consent of State Premiers to the release of the report that was compiled by Commonwealth and State officials and which has been with the Government since June 1973. 
asked the Minister for Science, upon notice: 
Will he provide a list of all projects in Australia concerned with the following aspects of energy resource that are being funded in whole or part by the Government: (a) solar energy, (b) geothermal energy, (c) tidal energy and (d) wind energy.- 
Who is undertaking the projects. 
Where are the projects being undertaken. 
What is the purpose of each project, and what amount of funds has been made available by the Government. . . . . , , 
Does the Treasurer accept- 
The question is to the Treasurer. It would be too hard for you even to attempt. Does the Treasurer accept that there are only 3 ways in which there can be a redirection of resources towards the public sector, that is by inflation, by higher taxes or by higher interest rates, each of which implies an even greater burden for the average Australian than he is at present bearing from crippling tax and incredible interest rates? In view of the statement that the Treasurer has just made, that there will be a continuation of public spending and an increased level of public spending - and, as he said yesterday, this would be done at the expense of the private sector; in other words, there would be a redirection from the private sector to the public sector - and given that there are only those. 3 ways of achieving it, will the Treasurer say which of the three, or if all three to what extent, each will be used to achieve this redirection? 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I understand that the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  has spoken for only 1 minute of the 10 minutes allotted to him. For whatever reason, that is a fact. Therefore, I seek leave of the House to move for the suspension of so much of the Standing Orders as would prevent the Minister for Labour speaking for a period of 10 minutes. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Is leave granted? There being no objection leave is granted. 
I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the Minister for Labour speaking for a further period not exceeding 10 minutes. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
With reference to the answer to question No. 717 of 31 May 1973 in which the Mininter for Science indicated that the Department of Primary Industry undertakes activities which bear directly or indirectly on consumer protection, which section or sections of the Department of Primary Industry are involved in such activities. 
What are these activities. 
How many officers of the Department of Primary Industry are involved in this work. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
What progress has been made in introducing in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory the concept of using school buildings out of school hours for community purposes. 
How many schools in each Territory are involved in this program. 
What facilities are being used at these schools, and for what purpose. 
How many adults have participated in the program, and in what ways. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
What action has the Australian Government taken in the proposed reorganisation of the South Pacific Commission and Conference. 
What consultations have taken place since the last meetings of the Commission and Conference. 
Where have these consultations been held, what form did they take, who participated, and what countries were represented on each occasion. 
What other Governments are concerned in proposals for changes in the Commission and Conference. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Can the Minister say how many persons were employed by religious organisations in Papua New Guinea in each of the years 1970, 1971 and 1972, and from which countries did they come. 
Can the Minister also say (a) what are the names of the religious organisations, (b) how many employees work for each and (c) what are the countries from which they came. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
What financial assistance does the Government provide to the fishing industry in Australia. 
What form does it take. 
asked the Minister represent ing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
How does the Government intend to use the $140,000 that has been allocated for a housing  pro  gram at the Papunya Aboriginal community in central Australia. 
In particular, what type of housing is planned, and for how many members of the community. 
Have contracts been let for the provision of this housing; if so, what are the details. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Who are the members of the study group that has been set up to examine relations between Aborigines and the police. 
When is it expected that the group's investigation will be complete. 
Is it expected that a report will be prepared for the Government; if so, will this report be tabled. 
Has the Minister decided on a date for a conference of Police Commissioners, members of police unions, criminologists and Aborigines. 
asked the Minister for the 
Capital Territory, upon notice: 
With reference to the answer to question No. 717 of 31 May 1973 in which the Minister for Science indicated that the Department of the Capital Territory and the Consumer Affairs Bureau of the Australian Capital Territory undertake activities which bear directly or indirectly on consumer protection, which section or sections of his Department and of the Consumer Affairs Bureau of the Australian Capital Territory are involved in such activities. 
What are these activities. 
How many officers of (a) his Department and (b) the Consumer Affairs Bureau of the Australian Capital Territory are involved in this work. 
asked the Minister represent ing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
What companies are currently involved in the woodchip industry in Australia. 
Where are individual industries located in Australia. 
What is the current annual woodchip production in Australia. 
What is the nature of the export licence permits that have been granted to each company which are still in force and what conditions attach to each permit. 
Can the Minister say what franchise arrangements have been granted by the State Governments involved to each of the companies. 
Which companies currently have submissions before the Government to either increase existing export licence permits or to obtain new permits to allow increased woodchip production or commencement of production, respectively. 
When did the Government receive each of these submissions. 
What is the total quantity and value of woodchip that has been exported from Australia in each of the last 10 years. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Where have Australian overseas offices been opened since 2 December 1972. 
What is the status of each office. 
What is the staff structure in each case, and from what department or organisation does the occupant of each position come. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Has the Queensland Premier approached the Australian Government concerning finance for the Wivenhoe Dam. 
If so, when did this occur, and what was the nature of the request. 
Has he replied to the Premier. 
When will the Government reach a decision on this matter. 
I address my question to the Prime Minister. Is it true that India and Australia have agreed to convene a conference of Indian Ocean states? Is it true that the purpose of that conference is to persuade the United States of America and Russia to reduce their forces in the Indian Ocean? Is it true that India is making the arrangements for such conference and is making arrangements for representations to be made to the Soviet and to the United States on behalf of Australia? Is it true that India is giving leadership to Australia in this matter? Are the views of the Australian Government and the Indian Government the same? 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  I ask leave to make a short statement in relation to the referendum proposals. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  I move: 
That your ruling be dissented from. 
I am sorry, did the honourable member say that George Slater left you? George Slater left because he knew you could not win 3 seats in Victoria. 
asked the Special Minister of State, upon notice: 
Is action being taken to review and assess the management, organisation and future development of the Commonwealth Archives. 
If so, when will  a  study be undertaken, and by whom. 
Have terms of reference been decided upon; if so, what are they. 
Will any report, prepared following such  a  review, be made public. 
asked the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
When were tenders for the supply of pushbutton telephones called. 
When did tenders close. 
What are the names of the companies that have tendered. 
When is it expected that the evaluation of the tenders will be finalised. 
asked the Minister for the Environment and Conservation, upon notice: 
Further to the answer to Senate question No. 365 (Senate Hansard, 18 September 1973, page 660), has the Government yet received advice from the Australian Environmental Council concerning national emission standards for smoke, solid particles and soot. 
If so, will he table the advice received. 
If not, when is it expected that advice will be received and tabled. 
asked the Minister for the Environment and Conservation, upon notice: 
Is his Department undertaking studies related to waste disposal problems of plastics. &lt;2) If so, what specific research programs are being undertaken. 
asked the Minister for the Environment and Conservation, upon notice: 
With reference to his answer to question No. 920 (Hansard, 23 October 1973, page 2573) in which he indicated that the Government had agreed in principle to the establishment of a base line atmospheric monitoring station, has a further decision since been taken expressing the Government's complete agreement to the program; if so, what moneys are involved in establishing such a station. 
Has the Government reached a decision as to the number of regional atmospheric monitoring stations which would be established. 
asked the Minister for Social Security,  unon  notice: 
Did his Department provide benefits for employees of the Bulli Brick and Tile Company during a 13-week strike which ended in August 1973. &lt;2) If so, what was the nature of those benefits. 
Is this the first time such concessions have been provided for striking employees. 
asked the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Is the cost of telephone calls to Greece cheaper than that to Italy. 
If so, will he instruct his Department to negotiate with the Italian telephone authorities to achieve lower charges so as to benefit a very large number of people in Australia. 
My question is addressed to the Honourable the Prime Minister. Has an offer been made by the Government to  Senator Gair  to accept a post which would involve his resigning from the Senate? If such an offer has been made, what has been the response? When would the office be taken up? 
 I move: 
That the ruling be dissented from. 

 Mr Speaker, I move dissent from your ruling in that you have ruled that Hansard should strike from the record of what has been .said in this Parliament the words which I used. I have asked you to state your authority for such a direction to Hansard. I suggest to you,  Mr Speaker,  that regardless of your words, what you have said will just go into Hansard, namely, that you ordered Hansard to take the words out. But if Hansard is to be a full and correct record those words must stay in. The words I used were these: This is the most shameful act by any government in Australia's history. It is worse than any Tammany Hall effort that has ever been made in the United States.' I heard an interjection: 'Remember Barwick', ls there somebody in this House other than the interjector, who had better identify himself, who says that the appointment of  Sir Garfield  Barwick as Chief Justice of the High Court of Australia was not an appointment accepted by every member of this House and by the whole Australian public as a very fine appointment? I challenge any Minister or member of the Labor Party- (Honourable members interjecting.) 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Did the Government receive a request to establish a joint AustralianRussian scientific base in Australia? If a joint Russian-Australian scientific base were established in Australia would it not represent a threat to the alliance between Australia and the United States and would it be likely to render useless any bases which the United States has in Australia today? Will the Government, without any further ado, reject the Russian request? 
 Mr Speaker,  I ask for leave of the House to make a statement about the death of  President  Pompidou of France. 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
Has he or the Government given undertakings to any governments, or the representatives of any governments, for the issue of visas to citizens of those countries for travel to Australia without all normal immigration clearances, providing such visitor nominees are recommended or referred by their respective governments. 
If so, to which countries have such undertakings been given. 
On what grounds have these undertakings been given. 
What forms have the undertakings taken. 
Have any visas been issued pursuant to these undertakings. 
asked the Minister for the Environment and Conservation, upon notice: 
When will he meet with State Ministers, as he has indicated he would, to discuss Commonwealth assistance to ensure the preservation of certain areas as national parks. 
In particular, when will he discuss with the appropriate State Ministers the Commonwealth's attitude toward the Precipitous Bluff area in Tasmania. 
asked the Minister for the Environment and Conservation, upon notice: 
When did he write to 8 other Ministers asking them to investigate and consider buying electric cars for their departments. 
Which of these Ministers have replied and what was the nature of their replies. 
asked the Minister for the Environment and Conservation, upon notice: 
Has he received representations from the Conservation bodies seeking to have more than 30 regions in South Australia, Victoria and New South Wales declared as scenic reserves; if so what action has the Government taken on these representations. 
asked the Minister for Second ary Industry, upon notice: 
With reference to the answer to question No. 717 of 31 May 1973 in which the Minister for Science indicated that the Department of Secondary Industry undertakes activities which bear directly or indirectly on consumer protection, which section or sections of his Department are involved in such activities? 
What are these activities? 
How many officers of his Department are involved in this work? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
At the recent South Pacific Conference meeting was a resolution adopted by ten votes to five condemning the French nuclear testing in the Pacific. 
If so, what reasons were given for their opposition by each of the five members voting against the resolution, other than the concern of some that acceptance might provoke the withdrawal of France from the organisation. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Has the Attorney-General appointed an expert committee to advise him on the establishment of a Federal Ombudsman. 
If so, when was the committee appointed. 
What is its membership and terms of reference. 
Has the commitee presented a report to the Attorney-General. 
If so, when did the Attorney-General receive it and when will it be tabled. 
If not, when is it expected that a report will be received. ' 
Is it a fact, as stated by the Minister representing the Attorney-General, 10 months ago in the House of Representatives, that this matter is high on the Government's list of priorities. 
If so, why has there been such a delay in finalising this election promise. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
What was the proportion and value of imported electrical goods as against electrical goods exported for the last 10 years. 
What was the share of the domestic market of imported electrical goods for the same period. 
asked the Minister for Science, upon notice: 
Is the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation undertaking a research program relating to prawning grounds in northern Australia. 
If so, (a) what is the purpose of the program, (b) what progress has been made with it and (c) when is it expected that the project will be completed. 
Is it likely that a report will be prepared for the Government following the investigation; if so, does he intend to table the report. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
What are the functions and responsibilities of the intellectual property division of the AttorneyGeneral's Department. 
How many of the 29 positions which were presented in the Gazette on 7 June 1973 have been filled. 
Which ones are they. 
Which positions have not been filled. 
Which positions have been filled by people from within the Australian Public Service. 
Which positions have been filled by people outside the Australian Public Service. 
Who are the people who have filled these positions and what is their background experience. 
asked the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
What is the classification for the purposes of registration as periodicals of all (a) trade union journals, (b) employers' publications and (c) journals of political parties which are so registered. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Will he up-date information previously provided from time to time in answers to questions on notice indicating all commissions of inquiry, committees and task forces reporting to the Government. 
Will he indicate for each inquiry (a) when it was commissioned, (b) when reports have been issued and (c) whether the commission or task force is still in operation. 
Will he also indicate for each commission, committee and task force the number of personnel associated with it and their salary level. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Will the Minister list all international agreements, conventions or other arrangements signed, ratified or in any other way entered into by the Government since his predecessor's answer to question No. S44 (Hansard, 29 May 1973, page 2825). 
asked the Minister for Labour, upon notice: 
Was it decided, at the Conference of South Pacific Labour Ministers in October/ November 1973, to begin a program of exchange of Labour Department staff between countries with comparable problems in this field. 
If so, have consultations been held concerning arrangements for such a program, and has such a program commenced. 
If consultations have been held, what form did the consultations take, and when and where were they held. 
In which of these consultations did Australia participate, and what part is Australia playing in any such program. 
asked the Minister for Labour, upon notice: 
Was concern expressed, at the Conference of South Pacific Labour Ministers in October/November 1973, at the effects of some trade union activities in the maritime industry in the South Pacific region. 
Were the activities of Australian trade unions referred to in this context; if so, did the Government give any undertaking to other South Pacific governments concerning this matter. 
Have consultations on this matter been held with Australian trade unions; if so, what form did such consultations take, when and where were they held, and who participated in them. 
Have there been any subsequent contacts or consultations with other governments in the South Pacific region on this question. 
I think it is appropriate that we should pay a mark of respect to President Pompidou, an esteemed statesman, a statesman by any standards, a man who had reached the pinnacle in his own country and as an international leader, a person capable of giving to the modern world a modern image, and a man who played a gigantic part in the task of building up modern Europe and giving it unity. Further than that, President Pompidou was the leader of a country which is a democracy and which is a traditional and close friend of Australia. 
I regret that the course that we are taking today of paying tribute to President Pompidou was not taken yesterday, and that I was refused leave by the Government to make such a statement yesterday. 
Monsieur Pompidou had a distinguished career in the public service. He was a teacher of literature. He was on the personal staff of General De Gaulle. In 1944 he played a prominent part in the victory of the French and the rebuilding of France from Nazi tyranny. 
He became the Prime Minister of France in 1962 and remained Prime Minister until 1968 when there was a separation between himself and General De Gaulle. At the end of the Presidency of General De Gaulle in 1969 he became the  President  of the French Republic. He was the leader of a country which had been a close ally of Australia in 2 world wars - the leader of a country with which Australia should and does have the strongest ties of friendship. France has been a close associate of Australia in peace. The level of trade between Australia and France is high. France is the host to a very important organisation of which Australia is a member - the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, stationed in Paris. 
France has pursued a course of international peace and security, as has Australia. In terms of aid, Australia and France are among the first four countries of the world as aid givers. In France there is the same sense of idealism as there is in Australia in the giving of aid to those less well placed with physical and human resources. In the Pacific area New Caledonia and Tahiti, and other islands, are considered part of metropolitan France and, as a result, France is, in a sense, one of our closest neighbours. We have had our differences - differences in relation to nuclear tests. I hope that these differences will have been made perfectly clear to the French Government that while we have these differences from government to government it makes no difference to us from the point of view of people to people relations. This is what the French Government and the French people should understand. The close ties of friendship between Australian people and the French people can and must continue. 
I should add that when the French Government understands our attitude it should understand also that it relates to all countries and to all atmospheric tests. Our complaints about the French Government's attitude apply equally strongly to the Chinese Government, and there should be no distinction between our attitude to those 2 countries. Simple because France is a democracy our claims are given wide publicity there. Our claims and arguments are given wide publicity in that democracy whereas in China no publicity can be given to the attitudes of the Australian people. The French should understand that. 

 Mrt SNEDDEN  -  I find it extraordinary that when I speak in terms of the same attitude towards the French atmospheric tests as to the Chinese atmospheric tests Government supporters seem to disagree. They seem to think there is a different standard for the Chinese tests. 
The Prime Minister, in answer to the question immediately before the last- 
 Mr Speaker- (Mr Hunt rising in his place) 
My question is addressed  to the Prime Minister. Is it a fact that the Minister for Foreign Affairs refused to have any part in the arrangements for the appointment of  Senator Gair  as Ambassador to Ireland? Is it a fact that  Senator Willesee  insisted that the arrangements should be conducted while he was out of the country and the Prime Minister was the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs? Is it the fact that yesterday in the Senate  Senator Willesee  made this perfectly clear? 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Is there in Dublin a man named Brennan who is titled Australian Ambassador to Ireland? If there is such a person in Dublin given the title of Australian Ambassador to Ireland has he been informed that he is no longer Ambassador to Ireland? Has he been given instructions to withdraw from Dublin? Has there been any communication between the Irish Government and  Mr Brennan  since the date upon which the Prime Minister believes, relying on the opinion of the Solicitor-General, that  Senator Gair  became the Ambassador to Ireland? For what period of time does the honourable gentleman believe that we will continue to have 2. ambassadors to Ireland? 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  we will oppose both these Bills. In his second reading speech on Appropriation Bill (No. 4) 1973-74 the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  said: 
This Bill seeks appropriations totalling $100,480,000 for expenditure in the current financial year on administrative expenses and other services. . . . 
In his second reading speech on Appropriation Bill (No. 5) 1973-74 he said: 
This Bill seeks appropriations totalling $70,362,000 for expenditure in the current financial year on items of capital works and services, payments to or for the States and certain other services. . . . 
Both appropriations are additional to the appropriations made in previous Appropriation Bills. We will oppose both these Bills. In opposing both these Bills we expect that they will be opposed in the Senate. If in the Senate  all members of the Liberal Party, the Australian Country Party and the Democratic Labor Party oppose the Appropriation Bills they will fail to pass. If they fail to pass it will mean that the Government must go to an election. There must be a dissolution of the House of Representatives. We would then make suitable arrangements for the appropriations now sought to be passed after the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  had announced that there will be an election and a dissolution of the House of Representatives. We would take that action because it is perfectly clear to the whole of the Australian people that there is something drastically wrong with conditions in Australia today. There is a very real fear in Australia today at the direction in which Australia is being forced by this socialist Labor Government. lt is necessary only to point out some of the matters. Firstly, at the present time inflation in Australia is running at 14 per cent a year. This is higher than the rate of inflation of the other industrial developed countries of the world. It is 3 times the rate of inflation which we left when we were defeated in December 1972. At that time inflation was about  4i  per cent a year. It has trebled. 
I should point out to the House something which every member of the House knows and every housewife knows, that is, that food prices have gone up by 5 times what they were in December 1972  -  in the course of these 15 or 16 months. There are shortages. Every person wishing to buy goods or to obtain services finds that there is a shortage of those goods. There is not a supermarket in which there are not shortages. There is not a factory in Australia which is . not experiencing difficulty in obtaining the supply of goods to keep that plant and factory operating. At a time when there are shortages of goods there is not the capacity of manufacturers to supply the shortfall. There are shortages of all services. Anybody with the most simple problem - a fault in a television set, a washing machine, a dryer or whatever it may be - is having difficulty in obtaining the services to repair it. 
The effects of inflation can be catalogued very simply. Inflation is only a statistician's measure of price rise. While the people in the street may look at the statistician's figures, they can measure inflation themselves more directly by the costs they have to meet. The effects of inflation need only to be stated - increased prices, shortages of goods and industrial turmoil and strife. 
What is not  so  readily recognised, and I must make clear, is that inflation has the capacity to redistribute the assets and the income in the community. Assets are redistributed without any regard to equity or fairness to the people in that community. Anybody who has retired and is depending upon his savings or his superannuation or an insurance policy will find his relative standard of living and assets diminishing. Any person who works in a job which has not a powerful trade union will find the level of his income going down compared with the amount received by persons working in jobs where they are represented by a powerful union. 
There are certain people who can handle inflation. The powerful and the wealthy can handle inflation and out of inflation they can become more powerful and more wealthy. The people who are poor, the people who are weak, become poorer and weaker. The great tragedy of it is that the people whom this Government claims to represent and who put it in office, those who are poor and weak, are the very people who are being ignored by this Government, and this Government is allowing them to become weaker and poorer. Inflation, therefore, benefits the rich and the powerful at the expense of the poor and the weak. We are not prepared to allow that position to go on and worsen. The time has come to put it to the test of the Australian people. 
Everybody knows that inflation causes a distortion in the nature of the growth of Australian industry. Inflation has other effects. Who does not know the increased burden of personal income tax? This financial year, 1973- 74, on the Treasury's own figures, personal income tax will rise by $ 1,500m - an increase of one-third over last year's. No wonder people find income tax crippling. No wonder people find that when they earn extra money so much of it is taken from them and when it is taken from them, along with the increases in prices, they are actually worse off today than they were 15 months ago. 
The next point which I want to make is that taxpayers on average will this year pay $200 more in tax than they did last year. They are being milked at a time when prices are growing so much. It gets to the point where, at a meeting I had last Monday, a young woman with young children told me that the burden of taxes and prices on her family was such that though she did not want to do it - she wanted to remain home with her young children - in order to preserve her family's standard of living she was going to be forced to take employment. That is the sort of social implication of Labor's policy for Australia. 
The Government is aiming to increase greatly spending in the public sector. The Treasurer said that he would continue to do it. In answer to a question from me he said that he would continue to expand the public sector, backed by a combination of inflation, increased interest rates and increased taxes. When we have a Treasurer of this country warning everybody that this is what lies in front of us has not the time arrived for us to put the matter to the test? The Government has no concern to control inflation; the Government has a concern only to harvest inflation and to take from the product of inflation this grossly inflated sum of personal income tax. Interest rates today are at the highest level in Australia's history. The 6 per cent long term bond rate grew to  8i  per cent. And this is a Party which before it came to office went out to the public and gave a solemn undertaking that in government it would reduce interest rates. It took it just 9 months to increase the bond rate by  2i  per cent. There is not a person in this community who has a mortgage, not a person who is buying anything on hire purchase, not a person who has borrowed money for any personal purpose or to put goods in his household, who is not finding the increased interest rates a burden. 
On the subject of housing, who is there in this Parliament who does not believe that every Australian ought to have the opportunity to own his own home? What the Labor Government wants to do is to reverse all that. This is the echo of a former senior Minister in a Labor Government who said that he did not want Australia to be a nation of little capitalists. What the Government wants to do is to have rental homes and nothing else. In housing there has been accelerated price rises, higher interest rates and a widening of the deposit gap. Young people especially find that when they wish to purchase a house the price has gone up, the interest rate has gone up and the amount they have to find as the difference between the mortgage and their own money is growing ever wider and they cannot afford it. A credit squeeze has resulted in a plummeting of loan approvals and commencements of housing. The Housing Industry Association President has warned that Australia faces a crisis in housing unparallelled in the post-war period. 
The immigration administration under the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  has been a failure. There has never been a Minister administering any portfolio who has been so keen to have personal aggrandisement and personal advertisement and been so unconcerned about the success and administration of his portfolio. There has been a fall in the numbers of migrants. There have been false hopes raised with other countries which have now to be changed. This leaves a sour taste in the mouths of those other countries and has an effect on the relations between Australia and them. 
The aboriginal affairs policy has been described by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  himself as a disaster. We have not had a single statement from the Prime Minister as to how this disaster is to be cured or how it will be changed. The Minister is left to lumber along in the morass of a disastrous policy. Social security programs have been shattered by the Government's own inflation as the report of the Henderson commission on poverty published only yesterday in this House pointed out quite clearly. The health scheme lies in ruins. This scheme was opposed by the medical profession, by the hospitals and by the health funds. The purpose of a health scheme is to deliver health care. How can you deliver health care when the people who are responsible to deliver it will have no truck with the scheme which is put forward? 
The Labor Party promised to spend 3.5 per cent of the gross national product on defence. The Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  had to come into this chamber during debate on the last Budget and admit that that promise was broken and that the amount to be spent would be only 2.9 per cent of the GNP. We know that with inflation, in real terms it will be much less. 
I now come to oil exploration. This is the most extraordinary and unique performance for Australia. At a time when the world knows of the difficulties in oil, fuel and gas this Government has achieved a unique position. We are the only country in the world where exploration for oil and gas has gone down. Every other country has expanded its search for these products. The reason why our exploration has dropped is the total lack of confidence in this Government and because of the actions of this Government. I repeat, the reason for the downturn in exploration is a lack of confidence in this Government by Australians and by overseas exploration companies alike. There has been a withdrawal of any subsidy, of any encouragement to people to take this high risk adventure in exploring for natural resources. 
When we come to industrial unrest, we find that already the working days lost due to industrial disputes is up by 31 per cent. The amount of production lost is fantastic at a time when we have shortages of goods. But remember the promise made by the Prime Minister before he became Prime Minister. He said that there would be fewer industrial disturbances under the Labor Government because, he said: 'We have an understanding with the unions'. They have an understanding; they certainly do. They positively encourage a growth in wage rates which they know cannot mean a real increase in the standards of living of the Australian people. They know that this growth can only cause higher and higher price rises. They are unconcerned about it because, as I have said, they want to harvest inflation. 
The Government has put the rural industries under attack. Their whole purpose is to drive a cleavage between the rural communities and the urban communities. They want the rural communities and the urban communities to feel that they are adversaries, that they are against each other, whereas the truth lies in the fact that the future of Australia depends on the success of both sectors, and both sectors must be partners in the advance of Australia. The Labor Government has tried to put one sector against the other. In government we would prevent that happening. We would make those sectors understand that there must be a unity. 
There has not been sufficient progress in urban improvement. There is a total unrealness about the attitude of the Labor Government that in some way or other regional development is going to be a substitute for urban improvement. The fact is that urban improvement is a fundamental necessity in this country and must be pursued vigorously, and we cannot blind ourselves to the need for urban improvement by talking about grandiose schemes of regional development. We must have that regional development; we are committed to it. But we are not going to allow our commitment to regional development to blind our eyes to the need of urban improvement. 
Inflation redistributes assets and incomes to the strong and the powerful against the weak and those on fixed incomes. Any person over the age of 50 approaching retirement must live in constant fear as to what his living standards will be in retirement. It is not right that a government should put them in this state of uncertainty. 
And now we have had this shameful episode - this deceitful episode - about the appointment of an Ambassador to Ireland. Australians have seen the Prime Minister degrade the office of Prime Minister. The Prime Minister is now desperately trying to extricate himself from the constitutional and political crisis he has created by attempting to appoint  Senator Gair  Ambassador to Ireland. In doing so the Prime Minister has today further misled and misinformed the Parliament and the Australian people. He is prepared to sacrifice any other person to save his own embarrassment. He has contradicted his Foreign Minister  (Senator Willesee)  and his Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  and, strangely enough - no, not strangely enough, expectedly enough - he has even contradicted himself. The Prime Minister is entangling himself, his Government and his Party in a web of deceit and of shame. 
At his Press conference on Tuesday the Prime Minister was asked the question: 
Prime Minister, has  Senator Gair  officially accepted the position? 
The Prime Minister replied: 
Yes. 
For reasons best known to himself he added these words: 
He hasn't, I understand, resigned from the Senate yet. 
In answer to a question in the House of Representatives today the Prime Minister stated that he considered no resignation was required and that  Senator Gair's  seat was vacated when, it was alleged, he accepted the offer of the appointment on 14 March last. Why did the Prime Minister say the opposite on 2 April - two days ago? Because he has changed his attitude in order to try to protect himself. He has changed his attitude today. He has misled the House. It is reasonable for the Australian people to ask: Who is the Ambassador to Ireland? The Prime Minister states that  Senator Gair  became the Ambassador to Ireland on 14 March. He said further that at that point the former Ambassador ceased to be an ambassador to that country. That is, the Prime Minister has said  Mr Brennan  is not Ambassador. If that is correct, the Prime Minister must now explain on what authority  Mr Brennan,  who still remains in Dublin, in the Chancellery in Dublin, with the title of Australian Ambassador, has continued to communicate on behalf of the Australian Government with the Irish Government. 
The Prime Minister stated what was obvious to all - that there cannot be 2 Ambassadors to Ireland.  Senator Willesee  today in the Senate said that  Mr Brennan  is still the Ambassador to Ireland.  Senator Willesee  says that  Mr Brennan  is the Ambassador, the Prime Minister says that  Mr Brennan  is not. The Prime Minister says that  Senator Gair  is the Ambassador. 
We can ask: Who has the authority to determine the commencement of  Senator Gair's  appointment? The Prime Minister indicated today that the Executive Council minute of 21 March left it to the Minister for Foreign Affairs,  Senator Willesee,  to make the determination. The Prime Minister said: 
I, in fact, left them- 
That is, the determinations - to  Senator Willesee  to make on his return and he made them on his return. 
One of the determinations was as follows: Such appointment commences on and from a date to be determined by the Minister for Foreign Affairs'. The Prime Minister indicated that  Senator Willesee  made this determination. Today  Senator Willesee  said that  Senator Gair  is not Ambassador. The Prime Minister insists that he is. Clearly he has no authority for his claim. In fact  Senator Willesee  said today that he appointed  Senator Gair  to take office as Ambassador on the day he arrived in Dublin. The Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Prime Minister say opposite things. I accept the word of  Senator Willesee  - not the word of the Prime Minister. 
The shame of the appointment is now worsened by the deceit in this Parliament. The Prime Minister stated today that  Senator Gair  sat in the Senate on Tuesday, 2 April, against the advice of the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy).  If that is so, why did the AttorneyGeneral not immediately raise the issue with the  President  of the Senate on that day? It is to be assumed from the Prime Minister's statement today that the Government believes that  Senator Gair  sat illegally in the Senate from 14 March. When did the AttorneyGeneral first issue this advice to  Senator Gair?  Was it prior to 14 March or was it only prior to the sitting on 2 April? 
It is now apparent to all Australians that the proposed appointment is coloured with very serious overtones. It is a matter of the gravest misuse of power and the gravest misrepresentation to the Australian people and to this national Parliament. All members of the Australian Labor Party must be ashamed and disgusted. If they are not, they do not deserve to serve in this national Parliament. 
The Opposition has positive policies to deal with inflation. We would cut government spending by cutting the growth of the Public Service and ending government involvement in projects which ought to be left to private enterprise - such as the Gidgealpa pipeline. In the first 10 months of the Labor Government 205 Second Division positions were created; the number of departments increased from 27 to 31; 157 new divisions and branches were created; and overtime payments went up by 60 per cent. There was a 29 per cent growth in the salaries and allowances to public servants. There were 95 new boards, commissions, inquiries and task forces created. On the figures supplied to me in answer to questions on notice, the cost of salaries for the new public servants - not the increases in salaries of the old ones - in the first 10 months of office was enough to give almost $3 a week to every pensioner in Australia. 
We would defer low priority programs. Curiously enough, that is the advice the Government received from its own economic adviser,  Dr Coombs.  We would reduce government spending to ease interest rates and cut taxes, as the reduced demand by the public sector would eliminate the need to squeeze the private sector. Honourable members on this side of the House want co-operation, not confrontation. The private sector must be allowed to grow because the private sector creates the wealth in this country so that it can be distributed throughout the community. 
We would call a national conference, including Federal and State governments and employer and employee groups, to discuss cooperative restraints on wage and price setters. There is no reason why we cannot revert to the performance of the 1960s when inflation of less than 3 per cent was achieved under conditions of full employment. That would be our objective and we would achieve it. 
We want an independent and flexible exchange rate policy. We are not prepared to allow our exchange rate to be determined by the internal and external affairs of the United States of America. We would lift the 33i per cent deposit requirement on capital inflow. We would encourage foreign capital, with clear guidelines setting out the conditions by which we expect to preserve Australia's national interest. We would establish a foreign exchange market in Australia to facilitate Australian investment abroad and to develop our own capital market. 
Our housing policy would assist every Australian who wishes to own his or her own home. We would establish a bousing guidance bureau and would encourage medium density and co-operative housing. We would investigate the restructuring of mortgage loan payments to ease the burden in the early years and increase the payments at a later time when they were better able to be met. We would provide direct financial assistance to those who need it. 
We would be concerned with social welfare, health and education programs, and we are determined that there would be no better systems of social welfare, health and education in any other country. 
We have already published our tariff policy which supports revues by the Industries Assistance Commission. We would not take ad hoc decisions. We would cut taxes. We would cut back government spending in Public Service growth. We would examine the timing of expenditure programs. We would not strangle trade practices legislation. 
We have published our policies on preschool education and child care. We would have sound, practical manpower policies and retraining programs. We would have a manpower program, which this Government has been unwilling to adopt. 
The role of women in Australia would be advanced. We would do this by creating a branch in the Public Service Board to make sure that obstacles and discriminations were removed. We would revise the widows training scheme. There would be a revised role in the Commonwealth Employment Service. We would review discriminatory aspects of taxation against women. 
In the field of minerals and energy we would restore exploration. We would create a national institute of energy research. We would restore private enterprise as the driving force to develop Australia's natural resources. We would assess the extent of our resources. We would map our energy resources and we would provide priority for joint ventures in development. 
We would encourage small businesses as the very basis of the protection of the free enterprise philosophy in Australia which has developed Australia so well and will continue to do so. We reject all those philosophies which would take away from the individual his right to express himself, to succeed, to be innovative, to be inventive, to be enterprising and to work hard if he chooses to do so. We would establish a national economic council. We would establish a national disaster relief fund. 
We have rural policies which have already been published. We would strengthen and honour our alliances and rebuild our defences. As a government we would never allow Australians to become hostages to international fortune. We would make sure that our defence forces can answer the claims likely to be put upon them. 
In urban and regional development we would increase the availability of land. We are opposed to land banks. We support growth centres, regional development and urban improvement. The problems of the cities will remain, and we would deal with them. We would do it in co-operation with the States - in Commonwealth-State relationships. (Extension of time granted.) 
We would act to improve the environment and the quality of our life by actions, not by mere words upon which this Government relies. In Commonwealth-State relations we would have co-operation with the States, not confrontation. We stand irrevocably committed to the concept of Australia as a nation composed of the 6 States which make up the Federation. We are a federation, and we would make it work as a co-operative federation. 
He would return to the States the freedom of their own action. We would provide for them a predetermined share of income tax, and they would be responsible for their own decisions and would answer to the public. We would reduce the extent of tied grants by which some bureaucrat in Canberra now fixes all the details and the determinations of the expenditure of State funds. We would minimise the conditions upon which grants are made to the States. In local government, we would provide an expansion of the responsibility of those local governments which now have a responsibility to provide services, and we would provide for them the capacity to discharge adequately the provision of services. They would have a predetermined share of revenue which would be distributed through the States, and the States would set up their method of distributing it - no doubt through some form of local government grants commission. We would support local action groups in local government. 
That is but a small recitation of the whole range of policies which we would put before the Australian people at an election. Australia is facing a crisis. That crisis relates to domestic affairs and to foreign affairs. In domestic affairs it is an issue of inflation and the social and economic well being of Australia. If the wrong decisions continue to be made the damage which will be done to Australia socially and economically will take decades to repair. We already have a rate of inflation which is too high for any country to endure. Australia has had a history of low inflation, Australia has had a history of social peace, Australia has had a history of incomes and assets being more evenly distributed than the distribution of incomes and assets in any other country. That is now in peril. We do not want to leave it to happen just by chance. Now is the time to put it to the choice of the Australian .people. 
In foreign affairs this Government is determined to move Australia out of the orbit of the free world in which we have lived for so long, and in which we have been proud of our contribution and our association. We want to continue Australia's role in the free world as a free contributing democracy. We do not want to pursue the course by which Australia will inevitably be converted into a socialist country, finding its natural allies in the uncommitted third world of socialist countries. That is not to be our destiny unless the people of Australia opt for it. When we go to an election we will put clearly before them the alternatives - this in the economic and social field, and this in the foreign affairs and defence field. The people of Australia did not give a mandate to this Government to change the whole nature of the Australian democracy. If that is to happen, it can happen only by the freely expressed will of the Australian people. The only way to determine that is by an election for the government of Australia. That is the course we want; that is the course we will pursue. We will oppose the Bill in this House. We expect it to be opposed in the Senate. If it is opposed in the Senate it will be defeated. Then we would make appropriate arrangements for the money to be made available after the Prime Minister has announced a dissolution of this House and the calling of an election so that the people can decide. 
asked the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice: 
With reference to the answer to question No. 717 of 31 May 1973, in which the Minister for Science indicated that the Department of Housing and Construction undertakes activities which bear directly or indirectly on consumer protection, which section or sections of his Department are involved in such activities. 
What are these activities. 
How many officers of his Department are in volved in this work. 
I ask the Prime Minister whether on 12 March 1974 - I will quote only the important part and not all of the statement, because of the time factor- he said: 
I would add that I would expect- certainly, hope - that the Senate would pass the Constitution Alteration (Inter-change of Powers) Bill. 
The Prime Minister used some more words and then he said: 
Since then the 7 Parliamentary Draftsmen, the Commonwealth, the 6 State ones and all the AttorneysGeneral, the Commonwealth and the 6 State ones, have considered and approved the text of the Bill which I introduced and which the House of Representatives passed. 
Is the honourable gentleman aware that  Mr McCaw,  the Attorney-General of New South Wales, has said that he and other AttorneysGeneral did not consider and approve the Bill; that  Mr Wilcox,  the Attorney-General of Victoria, said that the Prime Minister's statement was quite untrue; and that  Mr Knox,  the Attorney-General of Queensland, said that the Prime Minister's statement was totally false? Does the Prime Minister still adhere to the statement be then made? Does he still assert the truth of that statement he made on 12 March? If he does assert it will he give the basis on which he made it and table any relevant documents? 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes, I do. With characteristic looseness of tongue the Minister for Services and Property said that the Leader of the Opposition - that is referring directly to me - has said that he will take money from wherever he can get it and of course there would be conditions attached.  Mr Speaker,  that is a false statement and the honourable gentleman must well know it. In fact, in this House I have made it abundantly clear that no donation to the Liberal Party will be accepted if there is the slightest condition attached to it. That remains the position. It always will remain the position while I am the Leader of the Liberal Party. I was misrepresented by the Prime Minister when he- 
Yes. 
Yes,  Mr Speaker.  I claim to have been misrepresented by the Prime Minister when he was trying to extract himself from his contradictory statements. He tried to imply-- 
The Prime Minister in answering the question I asked him this morning said that he had chaired a meeting on 22 March which was attended by, among others,  Mr Hamer, Mr Thompson, Mr Willis- 
It is necessary to identify that which I am speaking about. 
I cannot be more concise than to identify what it was the Prime Minister said and that is what I am doing. The Prime Minister spoke of a meeting of Committee A of the Constitutional Convention which he said was attended by  Mr Hamer, Mr Thompson, Mr Willis  and  Senator Greenwood  and that that was on 22 March. The clear implication was that he made a false statement because nothing was said on 22 March. The fact is that the Bill was rejected by the Senate on 19 March and therefore was no longer relevant to that Committee meeting on 22 March. 
 Mr Speaker,  I move: 
That the House has no confidence in  Mr Speaker. 
 I move: 
That the House has no confidence in  Mr Speaker. 
The office of  Speaker  is an honourable position. It has been known in the parliamentary system and in the Westminster form of government as being most important for the protection of parliamentary democracy and for the protection of every member of this House. I notice,  Mr Speaker,  that Labor Party members have walked out. They intend to vote jackboot style according to their numbers. They have no intention of giving consideration to your performance as they ought to do. The  Speaker  should protect every member in this House. He is the custodian of parliamentary democracy. The  Speaker  is the man who should sit in this chamber and act objectively and fairly while occuping, in a parliamentary sense, a judicial office. He ought to consider every argument which is put. He ought to be able to make a judgment on those arguments, having no regard whatever to any fear or favour which may flow from his actions. 
Because in our parliamentary system the  Speaker  is elected by the House on each occasion it meets following an election, for the House, it follows that the  Speaker  always comes from the Government side. The fact that he comes from the Government side of the House does not mean that he represents the Government side. He represents the Parliament. In fact, the  Speaker  has an important duty in the department of state which is the Department of the House of Representatives. He has an administrative function. He stands above politics. When he comes into this chamber it is his duty to protect the rights of every member in the House. The  Speaker  has a requirment to act with dignity. He has a responsibility to act with fairness. He has a responsibility to be just in the determination of the matters before him. 

 Mr Speaker, the position which you occupy is not a position from which to clown; nor is it a position from which you should serve the interests of the Government. I am bound to say that I believe that you,  Mr Speaker,  misunderstand totally your duties in the chair. What you,  Mr Speaker,  constantly do is try to make jokes from the chair. You try to be the witty man and you try to be the man who succeeds, by making a sharp comment, a smart comment or a witticism, over a member sitting in the chamber. If you are dissatisfied with an interjection or a comment made by a member of the chamber you should ask that member to withdraw the remark, ask him to cease making such remarks or ask him to be silent. It does not serve the dignity of this House if, in the voice that you adopt, you call for order and then try to make a witticism which outwits the interjection. That sort of behaviour does nothing for the standard and the dignity of this Parliament. 
All honourable members know that when you.  Mr Speaker,  sat on the backbench you had a reputation for being a witty interjector. We all paid tribute to you for your interjections. We did not expect that, when you attained the position of  Speaker,  you would fail to understand the translation in your position from backbencher to  Speaker. Mr Speaker,  you are no longer a backbencher who can just toss off a witticism as he wishes and take the consequences, which in your case were mostly a laugh, but must be prepared, if necessary, to take the consequences if there is vitriol in the interjection. You are no longer representing the Labor Party.  Mr Speaker,  you are a man who has been elected to the highest office in this Parliament. It is not  for  you to be a comedy act. That is what we believe you allow yourself to descend into so often. Wherever I go I hear reports about the conduct of the Parliament. Those reports are distinctly uncharitable to us all and they are aimed particularly at you,  Mr Speaker.  They are aimed at you because all members of the broad public know, whenever they listen to the broadcast of the proceedings of this Parliament, that what I am saying is true. 
I can have no confidence any more in a  Speaker  who seeks to be some sort of comedian in order to entertain not only the Parliament but also the people who, from a national sense of interest, listen to the debates of this House. They do not listen to the proceedings of Parliament for entertainment of the kind that you,  Mr Speaker,  try to give them. I might say,  Mr Speaker,  that if you were witty on the backbench in Opposition, you are no longer witty and you are  no  longer funny. The attempts at jokes that you,  Mr Speaker,  make fall flat. There is no humour in saying to a member on the Opposition side of the House: 'You will find yourself out of the door before long'. That is not a matter of dignity.  Mr Speaker,  if a member says something for which you want to reprimand him, you should state clearly and precisely that he is to cease making such remarks or ask him to withdraw the remarks that he made; you should not try to outsmart him. Is it your expectation,  Mr Speaker,  mat every member in this House should have a scriptwriter  to  write comedy for him to use when he comes into the House? Is that what you have on your staff? If so, sack him. He has failed you. This is not a position from which to clown. Nor is it a position from which to serve the interests of the Government. The Government owes you nothing except that which every member of this House owes you: The responsibility of obeying your conduct of this House. All of us owe you that in the same way. But you owe nothing to the Government. 
There have been so many times in this place when the Government side interject consistently and make an enormous uproar and you do not call them to order. If there is any continual interjection from Opposition members, you turn to them and attempt to deal with them, to quieten them. One recalls the number of times on which the conduct of the affairs in this chamber has been designed to protect a Minister who is acting incompetently or stupidly or saying provocative things which beget from the Opposition a response which one would expect from it. Too often,  Mr Speaker,  you have conducted yourself to protect the Government. 
There have been so many circumstances in which we have had objection to your rulings. You made a distinction when some of my colleagues referred to the Prime Minister's act as shameful. You named them and had them thrown out of the Parliament. I then pointed out to you that that was a wrong decision. I also said to you that if anybody else had done it, we would have described it as shameful - and you were unable to take action because your original decision was wrong. If there needed to be any confirmation of that then the other day when the Prime Minister stood up with that schoolboy smirk, indicating: 'How clever I am in appointing  Senator Gair  as Ambassador to Ireland'- 
Too smart by half it was. But the smirk I shall never forget: 'How clever am I'. There was a competition on that Tuesday when they thought it was smart- 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
With what countries have joint military exercises been held since 2 December 1972. 
When was each exercise held. 
Where was it held. 
Who were the other participants. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon  notice: 
Has the Government decided to establish an Australian Plague Locust Commission? 
asked the Prime Minister, upon  notice: 
How many notifications of price increases has the Prices Justification Tribunal received since it was established. 
How many applications for exemption from notification has the Tribunal received. 
How many of (a) notifications of price increases and (b) applications for exemption from notification have been processed by the Tribunal. 
How many notifications of price increases have been (a) approved without a hearing and (b) subjected to public hearing. 
asked the Minister for Health,  upon notice: 
Has the survey undertaken by the National Health and Medical 'Research Council into the smoking habits of Australian school children been completed; if so, when. 
When will the results of the survey be available. 
Are there any preliminary findings from the survey. 
Did the survey include Victoria; if not, why not. 
Did the Prime Minister offer advice to the Governor-General that he should advise the Governor of Queensland of a request to issue writs for the election of 5 senators for Queensland? Has the Prime Minister said that he has been under the impression since 14 March that under the Constitution  Senator Gair's  seat had been vacated on 14 March? Did he at any time after 14 March advise the Governor-General to request the Governor of Queensland to issue a writ in terms of 6 Senate vacancies or for a sixth Senate position in addition to the writ for 5 senators? If he has not given that advice to the Governor-General and if the request has not been made by the Governor-General to the Governor of Queensland, why not? 
asked the Minister for Trans port, upon notice: 
What progress has been made on the Government's request to the Australian National Line and the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited to undertake a joint examination of designing a standard ship for bulk trays. 
When was this request made and what was the response of the two parties. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Is Coffs Harbour, N.S.W., an important regional growth centre. 
If so, has the Government's attention been drawn to the decision of Bulk Ships Ltd to withdraw the timber ship Abel Tasman from the Coffs Harbour/ New Zealand hardwood timber trade. 
If so, are over 200 families affected by this decision. 
Will the decision mean the loss of atleast$1m annually to the Coffs Harbour district. 
Has he had discussions with the Australian National Line concerning this matter; if so, does the ANL have several ships suitable for this trade and will it allocate a ship to maintain this trade and minimise any disruption to the Coffs Harbour district. 
If no arrangements are to be made to continue this trade, what action will the Governmenttake to ensure (a) reallocation or (b) retraining of the work force involved. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Did a delegation from Coffs Harbour district call on him in September 1973 concerning the discontinuance of a major shipping service to the region. 
Did he hold talks with this delegation; if so, what was the outcome of the discussions. 
Has he taken any follow-up action on the representations made by the delegation on this matter and has he since been in contact with members of the delegation or officials of the district. 
If so, what action has he taken in this respect. 
The Treasurer is in far more need of help.  Mr Speaker,  I will commence the question again. Is the Treasurer prepared to give an unequivocal assurance that if the Labor Party were returned to office the superannuation scheme he has proposed and published in booklet form, which resulted from an inquiry by Commonwealth departments and 
Public Service unions, will be introduced by the Government in that form? Can he give an assurance to the House that he does not agree with and will overbear the criticisms of the scheme that have been made by  Mr Clyde  Cameron, the Minister for Labour? 
 Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I ask for leave to make a short statement in response to the remarks of the Treasurer. 
I thank the House. I fully agree with much of what the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  has said. What I am saying is that if the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  would make plain what he is doing and whether he is about to dissolve the Parliament for an election, we would co-operate. At this stage the Prime Minister's intentions have not been make plain what he is doing and whether we can debate the Supply Bill. I would be prepared then to take the appropriate action, according to what the Prime Minister indicates is his course of action. If I may make it clear to honourable gentlemen opposite, there is no urgency whatever about this Bill if this House is not to be dissolved. But if the House is to be dissolved this matter should be considered urgently. All I am saying is that the Prime Minister should come into the House and make clear what he will do. It will be open then for all parties to take the appropriate attitude. I move: 
That the debate be adjourned to a later hour this day. 
Motion (by  Mr Snedden)  agreed to: 
That the debate be now adjourned. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  I said a later hour this day because I understand that is the practice of the House. But if the Bill cannot be brought on at a later hour this day because the position has not been made clear by the Prime Minister, the Leader of the House can alter the notice paper appropriately, for tomorrow or fOr next week. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
 Mr Speaker- 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
 Mr Speaker,  we did not divide on the motion for the gag because if we had divided, given that normally a division takes 7 to 8 minutes to count, it would have left for discussion on these Bills 7 or 8 minutes. By not dividing on this motion we will have 15 minutes to discuss 2 Bills, one of which provides supply of $ 1,800m and the other of which provides supply of $51 3m. On this legislation which seeks to appropriate $2. 3m this Government allows 15 minutes for debate, but we have 15 minutes only because we did not divide on the gag. If somebody cares to divide $2, 300m by 15 he will get an idea of what sort of a spendthrift government this is, and he will get an idea of what sort of a government this is which treats parliamentary democracy in this way. Then, would you believe it, this Government says that the Senate has no right to review appropriations made in this House? The Government gives 15 minutes to debate legislation appropriating $2,300m, and then it says it ought to go through this House just like that and that when it gets to the Senate the Senate has no right to review it. If ever a situation has demonstrated that this Government has no concept of parliamentary democracy from start to finish, it is this one. If ever anything has shown that there is a determination on the part of the Government to live out its life in deceit and secrecy, it has been this. 
Dragging out its life, as I am reminded by the honourable member for Corangamite. Here is a government which is so unaware of what is happening that it could not even provide us with the times that it intended to allot for this debate until after the divisions were taken. It was so ashamed of the small amount of time that it kept the time secret, and it was not until the provisions of the House positively demanded that it state the times that it produced the timetable. It is perfectly clear to everybody that this Government has abandoned any sense of decency It was dishonest from the moment it commenced its life as a government, and it will continue to be dishonest until the end of its life as a government. Can anybody forget the promise that was made by the Labor Party in Opposition? Remember that promise: 'Under a Labor Government there will be less inflation.'? Inflation has multiplied 3 times. Food prices have gone up 5 times. Dishonesty! Can anybody remember that wonderful phrase in the Labor policy document which said: 'Under a Labor government we will reduce interest rates.'? What has happened? Interest rates are the highest they have been since the Rum Rebellion. This Government said that taxation rates were crippling and that it would reduce them but it has increased them by over $ 1,500m this year. The Labor Party said that it would improve our armed forces. That is the only thing that it has lowered. The Prime Minister said that under Labor there would be fewer industrial strikes because, he said, Labor has an understanding with the unions. It has an understanding indeed! The unions are running this country. Honourable members opposite would not know what to do. They just do not understand. 
We made it clear in the House that when we come into government we will need the money which these supply Bills provide. We will need that supply for next year. We have not had an opportunity to examine the Bills to see whether the figures are right. How could we? They were introduced into the House an hour ago. We cannot examine them, but we were prepared to allow them to go through this House when the Prime Minister stated that there would be an election. He still refuses to state that there will be an election. Why? The probability is that Caucus is meeting at this very moment trying to make up its mind. Everybody knows that there was to be a Caucus meeting at 6.15. At 6.15 the Caucus meeting was called off so that the House could continue to sit. What did the Labor Party do? It sent the shadow of the Prime Minister, that very pale shadow of the Prime Minister, the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Mathews),  into the chamber to listen. No doubt he will be doing the reporting. He will go to the Prime Minister like the good little chap he is and say: 'Oh, dear Lord, this is what happened in the House'. 
I do not know about that. He has not done well enough to qualify for that job, but he will go ahead and report to the Prime Minister. It will sound like a negro spiritual with the words, 'Oh, dear Lord'. That is the sort of praying that will be needed. The Prime Minister, this man who is supposed to lead the destiny of this country, this man who is supposed to provide leadership, this man who has that duty entrusted to him apparently does not know to this moment whether he will have an election. If he does know, why does he not say so? Why does he not come into the House and say that there will be an election, the writs will be issued on a certain day, nominations will close on a certain day and the election will be held on a certain day. If he knows, why does he not say so? 
I am reminded by the honourable member for Hotham that this great leader cannot take a decision until he gets Caucus approval for it. So he has to nurse it to his bosom in secrecy because he cannot announce it. How can the people of Australia have confidence in a government which is being dishonest in every promise it has made, which has been shameful and deceptive in its actions, which appointed a man as Ambassador to Ireland on 14 March and had not disclosed it by 2 April and it was only by the efforts of a pressman that the ambassadorial appointment was disclosed? Then the Prime Minister says: 'Well, of course, on 14 March the  Hon.  V. C. Gair became Ambassador to Ireland'. The Attorney-General knew, the Prime Minister knew, yet they allowed that man to sit in the Senate and never raised an issue about it. 
I do not feel any hesitation in reporting to this House that I had a telephone call from the Prime Minister just before 1 o'clock today. The Prime Minister said to me that he would like my co-operation to keep the Senate sitting after 5 o'clock because he would like these Bills to go through the Senate today. I said: 'Well, I will co-operate with you, but I would like you to co-operate with me by telling me the date for the issue of writs, the date on which nominations close and the election day'. 'Oh', he said, 'I do not know that I can do that'. Why could he not do it? Caucus had not told him, so he could not tell me. This man, the leader of this country, is going to ask the Australian people to allow him to continue to lead this country. 
There is no harm in asking, as my friend says. But the Prime Minister is one of two things. There is no escaping from one of two alternatives. Either he does not know or-- 
 Mr Speaker- 
Oh, no.  Mr Speaker,  you gave me the call. 

 - Mr Speaker, we have precisely 3 minutes left to discuss the appropriation of $2,300m. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  either does not know the dates for the closure of nominations, the issue of writs and the election because Caucus has not yetapproved them or there is another possibility - I think this is a real possibility - he is dreaming up some political skulduggery. The whole of the Australian nation, and everybody in the House, has assumed that we are to have an election. The Prime Minister, for reasons of advancing his own political case, is prepared to abandon the national interest entirely and try to serve a narrow political interest of his own. He therefore will not say it.  His  problem is this: There is in Tasmania a Liberal Party candidate named Michael Hodgman who is a member of the State Parliament. He would need to retire from the State Parliament 14 days before nominations close to be eligible to stand for the seat of Denison. The Prime Minister knows that Michael Hodgman will win Denison by a mighty majority. The Prime Minister, if he closed nominations early enough, could disqualify Michael Hodgman from standing. 
That was the Government Whip, the honourable member for Wide Bay. I hope that he enjoys being Government Whip for these remaining few hours, because he is coming to the end of an undistinguished period of service in this House at the next election. He deserves his fate when he supports a man who is able to contemplate a national election in which political opportunism, conspiracy and skulduggery are applied against a man who has the right to present himself to the people for election. There are 2 possibilities. Either the Leader of the Government, that is the Leader of the Australian Labor Party, that is the Prime Minister, the Leader of this country does not know what he can do, when he can do it or how he can do it, or else he is guilty of skulduggery. It is one or the other. 
Question put: 
That the Bills be now read a third time. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
Are investigations into air quality factors in and around Canberra being conducted; if so, by whom. 
What is the purpose of the investigations. 
Have the investigations been completed and the report presented to the Government. 
If so, when was it received and when will it be tabled. 
If not, when is it likely that the investigations will be completed and the report tabled. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
When is it expected that the Government will be in a position to reach a decision on the rationalisation of the Australian aircraft industry. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Is concern being expressed by representatives of Aboriginal legal aid services at the decision of the Government to establish legal aid bureaux for the Australian community in each State, the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory with a number of regional offices. 
What arrangements will the Attorney-General be taking to ensure that the two legal aid systems can exist concurrently on a satisfactory basis. 
Has the West Australian Law Society written to the Attorney-General informing him of the Society's opposition to the establishment of legal aid offices in Western Australia. 
If so, has the Attorney-General replied to the Law Society, and what is his attitude to the Society's submission. 
asked the Minister for Immi  gration, upon notice: 
What are the procedures whereby Australians who have left Australia permanently and who have been overseas for a period of time are eligible for assisted passages. 
For what period of time must they have left the country in order to be eligible. 
What determines whether a person has left the country permanently. 
How many Australians in this category have (a) sought and (b) been granted an assisted passage since 2 December 1972. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon  notice: 
How many official or formal meetings has he had with one or more Premiers of the States since 2 December 1972. 
When and where have such meetings occurred, and what were the subjects discussed on each occasion. 
After each meeting were reports relating to the proceedings prepared; if so, which of these reports (a) have been made public and (b) have not yet been completed. 
asked the Minister for Educa  tion, upon notice: 
What progress has been made by the committee of the Australian Universities Commission appointed to advise on an open university and open tertiary education in general. 
When is it expected that the investigation will be complete. 
Is it anticipated that the Australian Universities Commission will recommend funds for 1974 for the development of this type of education. 
asked the Minister for Supply,  upon notice: 
Has he investigated the advantages of converting Commonwealth owned vehicles to use liquified petroleum gas (LPG). 
If so, what was the result of that investigation. 
If not, will he undertake to instigate such an investigation. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
When will the Government restore the Inter-State Commission. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
How many officers in the Attorney-General's Department have been given some form of forma] training in financial or auditing procedures used in Commonwealth Departments in the last 12 months. 
What is the division and classification of these officers. 
How many of these officers were in operational, as distinct from financial or accounting, positions in the Service. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
What progress has been made in drafting legislation to establish the Australian Film Commission. 
With whom has the Minister or his Department had consultations in the drafting of this legislation. 
asked the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Is the Post Office to be severed from the control of the Public Service Board. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Has he received a list of reports prepared by the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads since its inception. 
Has he considered the release of these reports; if so, what was the result; if not, when will he consider this matter. 
asked the Minister for Labour, upon notice: 
Did the Australian and New Zealand Governments agree at the Conference of South Pacific Labour Ministers in October/November 1973 that they would provide training facilities for labour administrators as a means of helping to establish the necessary qualifications and expertise for developing labour policies and their application in the South Pacific. 
If so, what facilities have so far been provided and what action has been taken to arrange for the future provisions of such facilities by Australia. 
Have consultations between Australia and New Zealand been held subsequent to the Labour Ministers' Conference to co-ordinate such arrangements. 
If so, when were these consultations held, and what decisions were taken concerning the coordination of action by Australia and New Zealand. 
asked the Minister for Supply, upon notice: 
Has he prepared a submission for Cabinet seeking additional outside contracts for the Department's 14 factories. 
If so, has the submission been considered by Cabinet. 
When does he expect to announce his proposals in this area. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Has consideration been given to including the cost of sound proofing in subsidised aged persons homes in the capital cost for subsidy purposes; if so, what was the outcome; if not, when will he give consideration to this matter. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
With reference to his answer to question No. 1234 (Hansard, 13 November 1973, page 3279), did his Department discuss with the Australian Medical Association reports that some doctors force patients to make cash payments for consultation fees prior to consenting to a consultation; if so, what was the outcome. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Following the visit by 4 doctors to Palm Island to assess the needs of the community, has a report been subsequently prepared by the team of doctors, and has the Government considered this report; if so, what action does it intend to take as a result? 
Will the report be made public? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
In relation to the grants in excess of $800,000 that have been provided to a number of shire and city councils in Queensland, how many Aborigines are employed by each council as a result of these grants and in what capacity. 
What is the basis on which the grants were allocated between councils. 
Over what time period is it intended or anticipated that the grants will be used to provide on the job or regular employment to Aborigines. 
When the moneys allocated have been expended by the council concerned, is it expected that the Aborigines will be given the opportunity to remain in employment. 
Have similar grants been made to councils in other States or is it intended that similar grants will be made available. 
Is it intended that the grants to Queensland local government bodies will be repeated in subsequent years. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
<para pgwide="yes">What is the (a) mean cost per bed day, (b) average bed occupancy and (c) average length of bed stay of a patient in (i) Teaching hospitals and (ii) non-teaching hospitals in each of the States. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
<para pgwide="yes">What is the (a) mean cost per bed day, (b) average bed occupancy and (c) average length of bed stay of a patient in (i) public hospitals and (ii) private hospitals in each of the States. 
asked the Minister for Educa tion, upon notice: 
With reference to the answer to question No. 712 (Hansard, 6 November 1973, page 2873), is information relating to child care centres in each State being brought up to date; if so, when will this information be made available. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
<para pgwide="yes">What is the (a) mean cost per bed day, (b) average bed occupancy and (c) average length of bed stay of a patient in (i) mental hospitals, (ii) geriatric hospitals, (iii) rehabilitation hospitals, and (iv) nursing homes in each of the States. 
asked the Minister for Science, upon notice: 
What role will the Australian Government play in the proposed National Consumer Association decided upon at a meeting on 23 February 1974, convened by him through the Interim Commission on Consumer Standards. 
Has the steering committee appointed at that meeting drawn up a draft constitution. 
Has a permanent executive yet been appointed for a Federal Consumer Association. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise, upon notice: 
How many officers in the Department of Customs and Excise have been given some form of formal training in financial or auditing procedures used in Commonwealth departments in the last 12 months. 
What is the division and classification of these officers. 
How many of these officers were in operational, as distinct from financial or accounting, positions in the Service. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise, upon notice: 
How many women have been appointed to senior positions in the Department of Customs and Excise since 2 December 1972. 
Who are they. 
To what position has eachbeen appointed,  and  what is the function of the position. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise, upon notice: 
Will the Minister provide a list of all grants, to any organisation or individual, that are provided from moneys appropriated to his Department, or authorities under his control, to undertake research. 
To what bodies have such moneys been advanced, and what was or is the nature of the research being undertaken as a result of the grants in each of the last 3 years. 
Br  J.  F.  Cairns - The Minister for Customs and Excise has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
In September 1973, a grant of $83,000 was made to the Radio Telemetry Laboratory of the Department of Environmental Physics of the University of Sydney, to undertake the development of reliable hybrid microelectronic circuits at microwave frequencies. 
These are required to improve the quality and efficiency of communication equipment available to law enforcement agencies both in Australia and overseas. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise, upon notice: 
Will the Minister provide a list of all formal committees, councils, etc., that have been established which enable him or officers of his Department to maintain contact with State Government Ministers or State Government officers. 
When was each body established and by whom. 
What is the (a) composition and (b) function of each body. 
On what occasions has each body met in the last 2 years and for what purpose. 
asked the Minister for Northern 
Development, upon notice: 
Concerning the Government's decision to authorise detailed investigations for the development of a regional township in the Alligator Rivers area in the Northern Territory, (a) who is conducting the investigations, (b) what Departments are involved and (c) what private enterprise is involved. 
Is the government committed to the development of such a township. 
What progress has been made on the investigations. 
Who is conducting the environmental factfinding study in the region, and what progress has been made on this study. 
When is it expected that the investigations will be complete. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
What is the membership of the interdepartmental committee that has been established to examine the possibility of using the road which runs through the Woomera Range as a route between Port Augusta and Alice Springs. 
What are the terms of reference and timetable of the committee. 
Did the committee prepare, or is it intended that the committee will prepare, a report to the Government. 
If a report has been submitted to the Government what are its recommendations and will he table it without undue delay. 
If the report has not yet been submitted will he give an undertaking to table the report as soon us possible after its receipt. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
How many applications for domiciliary nursing care benefit were rejected between 1 November 1973 and 1 March 1974. 
How many appeals were lodged against these rejections. 
How many appeals were upheld. 
asked the Minister for Social 
Security, upon notice: 
Did he receive a letter from  Mr Thompson,  former Minister for Community Welfare in Western Australia, requesting that a subsidy be paid to families based on the number of children. 
If so, did  Mr Thompson  assert that this would overcome the fact that women with large families could receive more money if their husbands deserted them or were unemployed. 
What reply was given to  Mr Thompson's  request. 
In 1973,  Mr Speaker,  I congratulated you on your unanimous appointment by this House as its  speaker.  At that time, I told you that we had no experience of you as a  Speaker  but that we admired you as a man and admired your characteristics as a man. We felt confident at that time that you would conduct the Chair in a manner which was suitable to the best traditions of Parliament. 
We have now had experience of you,  Mr Speaker.  I must say to you that we would hope that in this coming parliamentary period you will be able to see that this is a volatile place, that people, on occasion, will want to defend their rights as strongly as they know how, and that you,  Mr Speaker,  have a responsibility to ensure that every member of this House has his rights assured through your agency. 
We look forward to your doing that. You must accept that when, in our judgment, you fail to do so we will draw your attention to it. We will use whatever means we can to redress any errors that we believe you have made in the interests of maintaining the freedom of action of the members on this side of the House. Having said that,  Mr Speaker,  I congratulate you on your return to office. 
It was said earlier today that there may be errors in the practice of this Parliament of selecting its  Speaker  from the majority of the House. I share that view. I would like to see the position of  Speaker  become superior to Party politics and a situation where a member with a safe seat occupying that Chair can continue uncontested and remain  Speaker.  That is not for tomorrow but it must be for the future if this Parliament is to have the dignity that it ought to have. I want to put that on record. The other thing that I say to you,  Mr Speaker  - I am sure you will accept it in the spirit in which it is said - is that I do hope you will be able to say that magical word 'order' with a slightly different intonation. 
It is good to know you practice it,  Mr Speaker.  I hope that when you do use the word 'order', as you must, you will apply it just as readily to members on the Government side of the House as to members on this side of the House. We will cooperate with you, and what we want from you,  Mr Speaker,  is your co-operation with and understanding of us and our role in this Parliament which we are determined to play and which we will play. 
 Mr Speaker,  I desire to inform the House that the Parliamentary Liberal Party has elected me as its Leader and the honourable member for Flinders,  Mr Lynch,  as  Deputy  Leader. The honourable member for Curtin,  Mr Garland,  has been appointed Whip and the honourable member for Griffith,  Mr Cameron,  has been appointed  Deputy  Whip. 
The Opposition supports the motion moved by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  The Duke of Gloucester was the first and, so far, the only Royal Governor-General of Australia. He was by nature a soldier, having chosen that career, and he devoted himself to that career in a way which is not normally associated with soldierly duties by a member of the Royal Family. In fact, he served in France in 1940. He was there wounded by a bomb explosion. After the war he came to Australia and served, so I am informed, for 25 months as GovernorGeneral of Australia. He made another visit to Australia later on in 1965 to celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of Anzac. He made a contribution to this country as Governor-General. He will be remembered by the older portion of the community; he will be known of by the younger. He will be remembered with respect for the contribution he made. As Governor-General he travelled in Australia very widely. He had his own aeroplane, which was called 'The Endeavour' after Cook's ship, which is a touching selection of name by a Governor-General of the Royal Family. 
He may not have had the charisma to which the Prime Minister referred. But amongst all the interesting pieces of history which the Prime Minister has strung together he mentioned Bonnie Prince Charlie. We might add the further bit of information that Bonnie Prince Charlie was a Jacobite who was born in Rome on 31 December 1720 and failed in a rebellion in Scotland in 1745. With those few pieces of disjointed history finding their way into the debate on the motion before this House expressing the condolences of the Australian Parliament and the people of Australia to the survivors of the Duke of Gloucester, and appreciation of the service he has given to Australia as Governor-General, I think it is appropriate that we should all concur in the motion moved by the Prime Minister. 
The Opposition very readily supports the motion. Joe Sexton is well remem bered by those of us who knew him as a very pleasant man. He enjoyed the confidence of his own Party and colleagues and he was also greatly respected from the other side of the House by members of the present Opposition. I was going to say that he was greatly respected by members on this side of the House, of course he always served on this side of the House. One could say without using an Australianism over much that he was a good bloke and he was recognised as being such in this Parliament. We very readily join in the motion and express our condolences to his family. 
 Mr Speaker,  I congratulate the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  on being elected by the House as  Chairman  of Committees. It was, of course, a division on Party lines. If my hearing of the numbers is correct, he seems to enjoy more support than you do,  Mr Speaker.  As  Chairman  of Committees he has displayed that he possesses a determination to maintain order in the chamber. I agree totally with his purpose, but  I  think he may discover that his method may not. always work. A loud voice and a knowledge of the Standing Orders are not always the means of obtaining a peaceful chamber.  I  would suggest to the honourable gentleman that he try to learn a little humour. 
The Minister for Housing and Construction is the greatest joker in the outfit. He wants to have an examination made to learn why so few houses are being built. He is the man who supervised the greatest decline in housing and the steepest rise in interest rates in Australia's history, and he is talking about having an inquiry. The Minister for Housing and Construction,  Mr Les  Johnson, is a great joker. I assure the honourable member for Corio that he will have the cooperation of this side of the House. We want the Committee stage of debates developed, and we want that stage to be conducted in an appropriate way. We will give him all the co-operation that he deserves. When he deserves it, we will give it. When he does not deserve it, we will stand up for our rights,  Mr Speaker,  in just the same way as  I  indicated to you this morning we would stand up for our rights when you are in the Chair. 

 - Mr Acting Speaker, before I ask my question, I seek your indulgence to say that I would like you to convey to  Mr Speaker  our hopes that he will recover quickly from his indisposition. I hope that anything that we said yesterday did not lead to his indisposition. 
I ask the Prime Minister: Is it still the objective of the Government's economic policy to reduce inflation to 8 per cent by mid-1975? If not, has he abandoned the 8 per cent target which he announced publicly during the election campaign? 
Did the Minister for Overseas Trade say on 30 May last that inflation could be reduced by 5 per cent in a year, that is from 13 per cent to 8 per cent - the Prime Minister's objective - but that it would be likely to be at the expense of throwing 350,000 people into unemployment? As 350,000 is almost exactly 6 per cent of the work force, I ask: Who provided this estimate to the Minister? Is the Minister prepared to face an unemployment level of 350,000 persons which, he said, would be necessary in order to reach the objective just restated by the Prime Minister? 
1 direct a question to the Prime Minister. There have &gt;been splits between senior Ministers over economic policy. Now  Mr Dunstan  has said that the economic situation constitutes a state of national emergency. Does the Prime Minister agree with this statement? Will he make a comprehensive statement to this House forthwith setting out a single clear policy for economic management on behalf of the Government to be followed up by a full debate on the statement next week? 
Did the Treasurer receive a letter dated 27 June 1974 over the signature of Clyde R. Cameron? I ask whether the letter read: 
Dear Frank- 
I move: 
That so much of Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the Leader of the Opposition making  ; n  immediate statement on the serious consequences of public conflicts and contradictions between Ministers, and between Ministers and the Prime Minister, over  the  economic crisis emphasised by replies to questions yesterday and today, wherein was seen: 
1 ) (he Prime Minister completely abdicated leadership in refusing to make a statement to the House setting out a single, clear economic policy; 
the breakdown of communication and infighting between Ministers over economic policy, evidenced by the Prime Minister's ignorance of the letter from the Minister for Labor and Immigration to the Treasurer and his refusal on two occasions to allow that letter to be tabled; (.1) the Prime Minister's re-endorsement of an 8 per cent inflation target by mid-1975 in the face of contradictory statements by the Treasurer; 
the Prime Minister's attempt to suppress yesterday's statement by the Minister for Social Security condemning the Government's handling of the economy; 
and finally the Government's cynical misuse of its numbers to savagely impose the guillotine to prevent full debate of the current economic situation. 
The reason for moving this motion is the crying need for the Government to make a single clear statement to the House and, through this forum of the Parliament, to the Australian people on the Government's analysis of the  state of the economy and on its policy to correct the critical situation. During question time this week the Opposition has continually sought clarification from the Government as to just what its economic policy is. We have sought to obtain from Ministers reconciliation of contradictory statements made about the economy between them as Ministers and between them and the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam). 
No person can be ignorant of the confusion and worry in the community directly resulting from the Government's failure to spell out a comprehensive policy. Nobody can deny the need for the Prime Minister to reject statements which are contradictory to Government policy for the maintenance of economic management in this country. The editorial of the 'Australian Financial Review' of 8 July 1974 stated: 
What the Labor Cabinet urgently needs to do is to draw up a white paper on Australia's inflation problem, which also spells out just what it intends to do about it. 
The lack of agreement between Ministers is both obvious and astounding. It would be laughable, if it were not for the tragic implications for this country of the Government's failure to give leadership with a sound economic policy. The Opposition parties have made constructive proposals. Nowhere has the Government set out in a speech or published paper just what the Government's policy is. It is totally impossible for any person in the community, no matter whether he is an ordinary citizen, a commentator, a member of this Parliament, a member of the Government or a member of the Government parties, to go to any document or any group of documents and say: 'This document or this group of documents represents an analysis by the Government of the present economic crisis and the policy proposals which the Government will put into operation in order to cure the ills which we are now living through*. 
It is a disgraceful situation when a government is so incompetent that it cannot even state its intentions. If those intentions were stated the Australian people would be able to see the purpose of the Government. They would be able to know what the future holds for them and the way in which they could co-operate with the Government in order to achieve a correction to an extremely bad situation. The people have a right to know. Nobody can deny that the people do have a right to know. But they are unable to know because a statement has not been made. 
Surely the situation has got to a critical stage when a senior Minister, the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden),  who is fourth in the order of precedence in the Labor Government, can tell a meeting of his colleagues that the Labor Party is 'presiding over the destruction of the Australian economy'. Questioned about the statement this morning both the Prime Minister and the Minister for Social Security failed to confirm or deny the statement. The Minister came to the table quite clearly able to deny the statement if it were untrue. But he failed to do so and returned to his seat. The clear consequence of what is that the Australian people must accept it as true and as stated until it is denied. Until it is denied we have on record the statement by the fourth senior Minister of the Labor Government that the Labor Government is presiding over the destruction of the Australian economy. 
Did the Minister for Housing and Construction say in a Press statement on 2 May 1974 that the mortgage tax deductibility scheme proposed by the Government would provide $250 a year to one million families? Does this indicate a minimum cost of this scheme of $250m a year? How does he reconcile this with the cost estimate of $120m given in this House on 21 March 1974? Has the cost estimate of the proposed scheme been reviewed by the Government and if so, what is the present estimate? How much of the difference was error in estimating and how much arose from increased interest rates on home loans? 
In the course of a debate in this House last Thursday the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  said, as recorded at page 153 of Hansard: 
The man who has moved this motion - the Treasurer at that time - gave pensioners an increase of 50 cents. He is a man who is greatly concerned about inflation ! 
The Minister referred to me and alleged that, as Treasurer, I had granted an increase of 50c a week to pensioners. This allegation was made repeatedly during the recent election campaign. There was no opportunity for me then to name particularly the person who was making the allegation because it was made just in the broad and appeared in advertisements. But now that the honourable gentleman has stated it explicitly, I am given the opportunity to put the record straight. I introduced Budgets into this House in 1971 and 1972. I wish to quote a small part of each of those Budget Speeches so as to make it perfectly clear that the statement made by the Minister is totally without foundation and that anybody who repeats it does so deliberately, knowing he is continuing to propagate an untruth. One paragraph from the 1971 Budget Speech reads: 
The Government has pursued its policy of assisting those most in need. There will be higher pensions for those who are wholly or substantially dependent on their pensions. The standard rate pension payable to single people and widows with children is to be increased by $1.25 to $17.25 a week. The married rate of pension will rise by $1.00 a week for each person to give a married couple who are both pensioners a combined maximum pension of $30.50 a week. 
That was contained in my 1971 Budget speech. In the 1972 Budget speech delivered on 15 August 1972, I had these words to say: 
I ask the Prime Minister: Does his Government intend to introduce increases in postal rates, telephone installation charges, radio and television licence fees, or any of them, or any other charges imposed by the Postmaster-General's Department, during this sitting of Parliament? Is he aware that there has been very great speculation that legislation will be introduced next week for this purpose? Will he put an end to the speculation and say whether the. report is true or false? Were such recommendations for increases made in the Vernon Committee report? Has the 
Prime Minister had the Vernon Committee report since last April and refused to make it public, notwithstanding the fact that we had an election on 18 May? Will he table the Vernon Committee report now and not, as would otherwise appear to be the case, keep it secret until after the results of the by-election in New South Wales next Saturday? 
 Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
How many women have been appointed to senior positions in his Department since 2 December 1972. 
Who are they. 
To what position has each been appointed, and what is the function of the position. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. Is there any substance in reports that his Government will be considering an anti-inflation package proposal, including the introduction of a capital gains tax, next Monday? Following next week's full Cabinet discussion of the current economic situation, will he report to the House and to the nation on the result of that discussion in the form of a long awaited statement setting out the Government's analysis of the economic situation and the specific measures that are planned to attack inflation and to implement a realistic program of price stability through wage restraint? 
I ask the Prime Minister whether on 7 May last, he said: 
We are sure the June quarter will confirm that the inflationary trend is downwards. 
Are the same consumer price index figures for the June quarter ready for release to morrow? Will he make every effort to have those figures released today while the Parliament is sitting instead of tomorrow when the Parliament is not sitting? Do the June quarter figures, about the contents of which I am sure the Prime Minister already has information, confirm his confidence that the inflationary trend is down? Will this index be included in the Cabinet discussions he proposes for next Monday? Will he make a statement in the Parliament which states the Government's proposed course of action to overcome the seriously damaging price escalation? 
I wish to make a personal explanation,  Mr Speaker. 
Yes.  Mr Speaker,  there can be no doubt about what the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  said and there can be no doubt about the purpose in saying it. The purpose was to have the Australian people believe that the Australian Labor Party's proposal about tax deductibility of interest on home mortgages would have an effect which it will not have. As to the effect that he claimed it would have, I wish to quote again from page 3 of his statement. Referring to me, the honourable gentleman said: 

 Mr Snedden does not seem to worry about the  one million families who would lose $250 a year  or  $5 a week if Labor's home mortgage tax deductibility scheme is not introduced. 
That quote stands on its own. The honourable gentleman from Hindmarsh 

 - Mr Speaker, the misrepresentation of me is the allegation by the Minister for Housing and Construction that I have taken that statement out of context. The credibility of the Minister is clearly on the line. Does he speak the truth when he issues Press statements, or does he tell untruths? 
The Minister for Housing and Construction referred to 2 other paragraphs in the 5-page statement. He referred, firstly, to the paragraph at the top of page 2: 
Labor's second proposal, the home mortgage tax deductibility plan, would involve annual tax rebates of about $250 a year for the average wage earner paying off his home. 
That statement should be read in conjunction with this statement: 

 Mr Snedden does not seem to worry about the one million families who would lose $250 a year or $5 a week if Labor's home mortgage deductibility scheme is not introduced. 
Those 2 statements are not in contradiction; they are only a further implication that there are one million average wage-earning families, all of whom would benefit by $250 a year or $5 a week. The other paragraph to which the Minister referred is 2 paragraphs before the one I just read. It is as follows: 
Also, he has finally admitted the Liberals will abandon Labor's home mortgage tax deductibility scheme, so if the Liberals are elected the average home owner can write-off $250 every year of his tax rebate. 
What he is there doing is making it perfectly clear that as a result of Government policies - Labor Party policies - home interest rates have escalated. 
No. 
That is right. The Minister for Housing and Construction quoted the paragraph to which I have just referred in order to allege that it in some way subtracted from the misstatement he made later on. I am saying that it had no relation to subtraction from the misstatement; it relates to something entirely different. Therefore he achieves nothing by quoting it, because what it demonstrates is that the interest policy of the Labor Party advanced home mortgage repayments of the home buyer by such an amount that the tax rebate of $250 as a result of this program does not compensate the home owner for the increased cost of higher interest rates, and that is the nature of the policy which this gentleman has supervised. 
 The Opposition does not oppose this Bill which relates to historic land in Sydney which was owned by the Church of England authorities in Sydney and, I understand, was leased for 99 years over a century ago. The lease has now expired and the land has fallen back into the disposition of the Church of England authorities. As might be expected the lessee, who in turn rented by sub-lease the houses on the land, did not spend a great deal of money on repair and upkeep of the properties during the time that the lease was running out. As a consequence the houses fell into disrepair. I think it is fair to describe this part of Sydney as bordering on a slum area which if left would certainly develop into one. Apparently there was no way in which this situation could have been corrected. However, ultimately it will be corrected by proposals contained in this legislation which will permit the Commonwealth to buy the land from the Church of England authorities, to develop the land and to put the houses into good, habitable condition. 
The Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  gave the 4 main objectives of the purchase of the land in his second reading speech. The first objective is to avoid the sudden displacing of the exisitng population and to avoid any disruption to existing community networks; second, to retain the opportunity for low income earners and families and aged people to live close to the city as part of the wider community; third, to improve environmental conditions and social conditions of residents of the estate and surrounding area; fourth, to preserve the townscape and sympathetically rehabilitate it. In so far as the Bill provides the money and the purchase contributes to these objectives the Opposition supports the Bill. The objective of urban renewal projects should be to benefit with the minimum possible disruption those residents who live in the area. The Minister has said that this is a pilot project. As a pilot project it is very important that the real issues involved here should be closely examined and debated. If it is to be a pilot project, we need to know what we are putting ourselves in for, whether we are doing it the right way, whether it will serve the interests of the community in the broad and of the people in particular, or whether it will be contrary to their interests even though on the surface it may appear to be in their interests. 
But is that the real test? At present some very exciting developments have been taking place in the architectural, town planning and sociological fields, all related to medium density housing and especially to medium density housing in the inner areas of great metropolises. In Sydney, of course, we have one of the world's great metropolises. There are very old areas in Sydney and also in Melbourne. In those inner areas people have lived for many years and have seen development move into the outer areas. They have remained in the inner areas and have seen commercial and industrial growth around them. 
Other people have moved to the outer suburban areas to have their quarter acre of land and, on that quarter acre of land, their villa. This has contributed greatly to a rapidly increasing rate of cost for the provision of services such as sewerage, roads and electricity. There is not only the cost of providing these facilities as a public service but also the cost to the people using them. A perfect example is the cost of transport to and from work to those people who live in the outer areas. A consequence of this development is that attention is being turned by architects, town planners and sociologists to the development within the inner metropolitan areas of medium density housing closer to the centre of the city and closer to places of employment. The excitement that many people connected with those fields are feeling depends upon their opportunity to see big development projects go ahead. 
This Bill deals with an area of 47 acres. 1 do not know how many hectares that area involves. It is important that when there is an opportunity for a large area like this to be used as a pilot project it should be treated as such. It should be an example for development elsewhere by private, municipal or State developers. The proposed development can serve as an example to them. What is perfectly clear from what is proposed by the Government, is that the dwellings in the Glebe area will all be repaired and reoccupied. They will be exactly the same shaped dwellings as they have been since they were first built. Many of them were built more than a century ago. Not the slightest thought has been given to the possibility of redeveloping the whole area in the way that magazines and professional writers have suggested to the Minister and to me. I regret that there has been no such consideration. Many of the houses in the Glebe area are old and will be unlikely to respond satisfactorily to the rehabilitation process of repair, etc. 
When one considers what could be done with 47 acres of open space, green leaf space or community open space and one appreciates the whole range of community services that could be provided it does seem that not enough consideration has been given to that prospect. I strongly favour the development of medium density housing in the inner suburban areas. In saying that I do not think of medium density housing as being interpreted as high density housing associated with high rise apartment-type dwellings. That is not what I am arguing for at all. I am arguing for medium density housing which could be anything from 20 to 40 and perhaps even 50 people to the acre. In fact, the density of this area is more than 50 people to the acre. There is a population which I would assess to be about 2,800 and there is an area of 47 acres. That works out at more than 50 persons to the acre and that is getting to the very high level of medium density housing. 
I have in mind medium density housing of a lesser type. I see villa-type development or attached-type development. At the most the buildings would be of 3 storeys, preferably of 2-storeys with walk-up approaches to the second storey. It is important to understand that a great counter movement is starting to develop in Australia. Instead of people constantly moving into outer suburbs and into their quarter-acre blocks, thereby exerting pressure for further services, there is a very substantial movement into the inner city areas. A tremendous job is being done in rehabilitating and restoring old houses, and very attractive they are. 
I am not saying that rehabilitation in Glebe is not a treatment which was available. I am saying that nowhere in any speech the Minister has made has he indicated that he gave consideration to any other treatment of the area other than the rehabilitation of the existing houses. He said it is a pilot project. If it is, the Minister ought to have made available to this House the considerations that were available to him and should explain why he chose to do certain things. No mention is made of any environmental impact study in the second reading speech. 
Please do. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Will he make public the message he sent to the Amnesty International Conference for the Abolition of Torture. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
During the Minister's recent visit to Jakarta, did he (a) raise or (b) endorse the proposal for a quadripartite regional arrangement including Australia, New Zealand, Papua New Guinea and Indonesia. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Did the Fifth South Pacific Forum consider the results of the First Conference of South Pacific Labour Ministers  held  in Australia in 1973. 
Did the Forum approve action taken  as  a result of that meeting; if so,  what  form  has  that action taken. 
Is a second meeting planned; if so, where and when is it to be held. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Has the Government decided to discontinue Australian participation in the Devisa Kredit Scheme for Indonesia. 
If so, when was this decision taken. 
If not, is the matter under consideration; if so why. 
What proportion of Australian aid to Indonesia is included in Devisa Kredit assistance. 
Will the Government give an assurance thataid to Indonesia will not decrease. 
asked the Minister for Science, upon notice: 
What is the Federation of Consumer Groups. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Has an inter-departmental committee been established to investigate the transfer of Australian money to trustee companies operating outside Australia. 
If so, what is the composition, charter, and time-table of the committee. 
If not, is the Government undertaking some other study of this matter. 
asked the Minister represent ing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
How many officers in the Department of Foreign Affairs have been given some form of formal training in financial or auditing procedures used in Commonwealth Departments in the last twelve months. 
What is the division and classification of these officers. 
How many of these officers were in operational, as distinct from financial or accounting positions in the Service. 

 Mr Whitlam: The Minister for Foreign Affairs, has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
In the period from 1 April 1973 to 17 July 1974, 131 officers in the Department of Foreign Affairs have been given formal training in financial procedures used in Departments of the Australian Government. 
All concerned were Third Division Officers. They were of the following classifications: 
asked the Minister represent ing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
At the Fifth South Pacific Forum in March 1974, was consideration given to the broadening of the membership of the Forum. 
If so, did the Australian delegation initiate this consideration; if not, which nation took the initiative. 
Which member countries (a) supported and (b) opposed this idea. 
Was any decision taken on the possible broadening of membership. 

 Mr Whitlam: The Minister for Foreign Affairs has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
Yes. (2)and (3) The proceedings of the Forum are confidential. 
Information is available in the Final Press Communique issued at the end of the meeting of the Fifth South Pacific Forum in Rarotonga on 25 March, 1974. The relevant section reads: 
The Forum discussed a request by the Congress of Micronesia to attend the Forum in Rarotonga as an observer. Forum members agreed that the Premier of the Cook Islands should inform the Congress of the requirements for attendance of observers at the Forum, namely that, observer status is accorded to leaders of Governments approaching full selfgovernment or independence, and request them in the light of this to advise the Government of Tonga, as the host of the next Forum, as to their possible attendance. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Was Australia invited to attend the Washington Energy Conference from 11 to 13 February 1974. 
Will the Government take action to ensure that Australia is represented at the proposed meeting between consumer and producer nations. 
What contact has there been between the Australian Government or its representatives and the co-ordinating group established by the Washington Energy Conference. 
My question is addressed to the Treasurer. I ask: Does the honourable gentleman agree with the statement this morning of  Dr J.  F. Cairns, the Minister for Overseas Trade, that the measures he - the Treasurer - announced last night will not be anti-inflationary? The Minister for Overseas Trade was asked in a radio interview this morning whether the Treasurer's measures were anti-inflationary and he replied: 
Well, they are not. It's very difficult to see what can be anti-inflationary. In the final analysis, the only thing that can be anti-inflationary is for people -workers like you and me in the community - who would have to make up their minds to take only a fair increase in wages, salaries and pay. 
Does the honourable gentleman agree with the statements that were made by the Minister for Overseas Trade after his denial that the measures outlined in the Treasurer's statement last night would be anti-inflationary? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Overseas Trade. This morning on a radio program the honourable gentleman, when asked whether the Treasurer's measures announced last night were anti-inflationary, said: 
Well, they are not. 
He went on: 
It is very difficult to see what can be anti-inflationary. In the final analysis, the only thing that can be anti-inflationary is for people - workers like you and me in the community - who would have to make up our minds to take only a fair increase in our wages, salaries and pay. 
Did he intend to use those words? Does he now affirm that he believes those words as stated? I refer particularly to his statement 'Well, they are not' - meaning not antiinflationary. In relation to the latter part of the statement, will the honourable gentleman agree that the only way to achieve wage restraint by 'workers like you and me in the community'^- to use his words - is to have a national conference asking wage setters, price setters and government, which is the collector of great chunks out of a man's pay packet, to exercise restraint? 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Does his Department maintain a list of all women's groups in Australia and their office bearers. 
If so, will he incorporate a copy in Hansard. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
How many women have been appointed to senior positions in his Department since 2 December 1972. 
Who are they. 
To what position has each been appointed, and what is the function of the position. 
asked the Minister for Social 
Security, upon notice: 
How many applications for domiciliary nursing care benefit were rejected between 1 November 1973 and 1 March 1974. 
How many appeals were lodged against these rejections. 
How many appeals were upheld. 
asked the Minister for Social 
Security, upon notice: 
When will financial and other assistance be provided to homeless men and women. 
What action has been taken on the report of the working party on homeless men and women which he received more than 8 months ago. 
When will model legislative assistance in the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory be introduced. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Has the Government considered providing a form of domiciliary benefit to those caring for children seeking admission, or those who would benefit from admission to training and accommodation centres provided for physically and mentally handicapped children but who are cared for at home by parents because such accommodation is not available. 
asked the Minister for Social 
Security, upon notice: 
With reference to his answer to question No. 887 (Hansard, 10 October 1973, page 1908) what is the purpose of each training and accommodation centre subsidised under the Handicapped Children (Assistance) Act. 
What type of children is catered for at each centre. 
How many children attend each centre. 
How many children are currently on the waiting list of each centre. 
What is the average waiting time for admittance to each centre. 
What is the estimated number of children in each State requiring training and/or accommodation at centres of this type who have not been able to attend them. 
What is the percentage for each State (a) that the children attending such centres represent in relation to all children of similar age and (b) that the children attending such centres or seeking to attend such centres or children who could benefit from attending such centres represent in relation to all children of similar age in the community. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation, upon notice: 
How many ex-servicemen and women who have served in a theatre of war have applied for free treatment of malignant cancer. 
Where have they been treated. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to an organisation of copper exporting countries known as CIPEC. 
If so, can the Minister say (a) who are the members of CIPEC and (b) what is the organisation's charter, constitution and purpose. 
What relationship or contact does the Australian Government have with CIPEC. 
Does the Australian Government propose to establish regular contact with or participate in CIPEC. 
asked  the  Minister  for Defence, upon  notice: 
Did he announce on 10 January 1974 that during his visit to Washington agreement had been reached on arrangements to transfer to sole Australian management (a) the United States Air Force facility at Amberley and (b) a United States seismic station at Alice Springs. 
If so, when will Australia assume control of these establishments. 
What will be the total estimated annual cost to Australia of running and maintaining each of them. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
Has he held discussions with representatives of the bauxite industry in Australia concerning the InterGovernmental Bauxite Association. 
If so, with which representatives have discussions been held. 
What further action has been taken to date concerning the Association and its implementation. 
DrJ. F. Cairns - The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
These were held with representatives of the major companies engaged in Australia in the mining, processing, and marketing of bauxite and related products. The Aluminium Development Council was also represented. In addition, officers of the Departments of Overseas Trade, Minerals and Energy, and Foreign Affairs attended the discussions. I agreed to discuss this matter again with industry representatives in the light of further developments. 
Australia participated in a Ministerial meeting of major bauxite producing countries held in Conakry, Guinea from 5 March to 8 March. The meeting finalised, on an ad referendum basis, the text of an Agreement proposing the establishment of an International Bauxite Association. The Agreement is now being considered by the Australian Governmet. 
asked the Minister represent ing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
With what countries have diplomatic relations been (a) established and (b) broken off since 2 December 1972. 
With what other countries have there been changes in the status of our diplomatic relations since 2 December 1972. 
What were the changes and what countries were involved. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Does the Australian Government intend to take action to ensure that the Regent Theatre in Collins Street, Melbourne, will not be destroyed? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
What was the total number of Australian personnel in Australia's overseas missions on 2 December 1972. 
What is the number now. 
My question is addressed to the right honourable - sorry, not right, just honourable - Prime Minister. I ask the honourable gentleman: Does he agree that a $15 a week rise being asked for toy the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union is probably not in excess of a reasonable wage claim? If he agrees that it is not in excess of a reasonable wage claim, is it the intention of the Government to give support to the union in its demands for that amount of money to be paid? I ask the honourable gentleman also whether the Government intends to take action in this House - I ask this as a matter of information - to allow or disallow the increase that has been awarded by the Public Service Arbitrator to the Third Division of the Commonwealth Public Service. 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. Will the honourable gentleman give an assurance that there is no chance of some of the Australian banks crashing if they continue their present policies? Does he agree that that is an absurdly stupid proposition to put because it can only lead to confusion or lack of confidence and could induce the result, which would be disastrous? Does he believe that an economic crisis is due in part to the interest rate squeeze induced by bank lending policies? Is it not a fact that the increased interest rates directly flow from a decision taken by himself, the Prime Minister and the then  Deputy  Prime Minister and present Minister for Defence,  Mr Barnard,  on a Sunday evening last year and announced as being a matter of policy adopted by the Government to control inflation? Is there some almost forgotten power to enforce greater control over bank lending? Is the honourable gentleman considering taking such action? If so, what is the almost forgotten power? 
At a few minutes past 8 p.m. last Tuesday the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  - charismatic Frank - walked into this House and made a statement entitled Ministerial Statement: Inflation'. That statement was an insult to the intelligence of this House and to the people of Australia. At a time when the nation is facing its gravest economic situation for decades and is crying out for government leadership, the Treasurer presented what was said to be an antiinflation package. Yet his own  Deputy  Prime 
Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  described it the next morning as not inflationary at all and as having nothing to do with anti-inflation. Was that surprising? Honourable members may think it was surprising. In fact it was not surprising because the Treasurer himself within 2 'hours of making the statement appeared on television and said that it really did not have much to do with anti-inflation anyway. The next day the Treasurer found that the  Deputy  Prime Minister and Minister for Overseas Trade confirmed his statement made earlier in the morning that it had nothing to do with anti-inflation. To cap it all, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  then confirmed the views of both of them. It is the first time members of the Government have had a trinity of views for more than a year. 
Let me remind the House of the circus of events surrounding this, the latest of the long parade of the Government's economic fiascos. During the week before last the Government contracted a chronic case of the jitters about the impending consumer price index for the June quarter. The Prime Minister knew there was going to be a rise in the consumer price index. He told the Parliament that in answer to a question from me. But, of course, at that time he had no idea when the figures would be released that would show, as I said, that 'only Whitlam has increased inflation by two-thirds'. The choosing of the date of the release of the June figures for the consumer price index was left up to a public servant. Strangely enough, this unusual person who is not responsible to Ministers, calculated that the best time to release this gloomy news was at 6 p.m. on a Friday night. It was another triumph for open government. 
While this miserable subterfuge was proceeding, the Government's propaganda machine was already in top gear softening up the Press and the public for last Tuesday's non-event. The country was subjected to a barrage of leaks and seepages worthy of the most horrendous of Budgets - income tax up, petrol tax up by 10c a gallon, excise up on cigarettes and liquor, a capital gains tax, post office charges up and cuts in the rate of growth of government spending. All the ingredients were there. This was to be the great, if long delayed, anti-inflationary package. Let me recall just some of the headlines that preceded it. One headline was 'Grim Crisis Plan Ahead'. Another headline read 
Alarm in Canberra'. Yet another stated Cabinet to Halt MP's Pay Rise'. I do not know what happened to that one. A further headline read 'Govt Scheme to Curb Inflation' and another one 'Tough MiniBudget Forecast'. We then had economic comment and predictions from political commentators. I ask honourable members to listen to one such comment: 
The Whitlam Government is determined to smash the psychology of inflationary expectations which threaten to lead to an inflation rate of more than 20 per cent. 
It continues: 
The package of measures agreed to last night, if they pass the Caucus and the Senate, is the most calculatedly deflationary ever undertaken by an Australian government, or indeed any western democracy plagued by the same problem. 
This is the yes-no government. It says yes some days and no the next day.  lt  depends who has command for the moment on how the vote comes out. After this sort of buildup the Treasurer came into this chamber at 8 p.m. last Tuesday evening with, if I may use the words of my colleague the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen),  'a lively anticipation that something was afoot'. The Treasurer was not even present. He was stuck in the Caucus room waiting for his riding instructions as to whether he could make the statement at all. He was almost withdrawn from the event by orders of the stewards on veterinary advice. Everybody knows he was a reluctant starter in any case. The Prime Minister had been set to make this great statement and all afternoon the battle waged. Ultimately the Prime Minister said to the Treasurer: 'Frank, you do it*. 
Because the Prime Minister wanted to make the statement if it truly was an anti-inflationary packet but he had no wish to make it if it was a sham and mockery, as it was. Unfortunately, there was no time for a rewrite. The Treasurer had drawn the short straw and he was left to read a statement which went into the anti-inflation battle like a lion in the opening pages and finished like a lamb in a bleat of excuses and inaction as the statement proceeded. 
As a statement on inflation, it was a sham and an anti-climax. It was the statement of a Treasurer whose government has yet to present a clear statement of economic policy, if it has one. As a recognition of the problems in the economy, it was a belated confirmation of the complete failure of Government policy. As an attempt to provide a policy response to a serious situation which the Government, or should I say the Treasury, finally recognises, it was a complete blank. It was the statement of a fumbling, uncertain government, unable to analyse the situation, unable to agree on policy and preoccupied with ministerial infighting for personal publicity. The 'Australian Financial Review' on 8 July said: 
 What the Labor Cabinet urgently needs to do is to draw up a White Paper on Australia's inflationary problems, which also spells out just what it intends to do about it. 
Three weeks later, no progress has been recorded. 
Less than 24 hours after the Treasurer's anti-inflation statement in this House, it was publicly repudiated by the  Deputy  Prime Minister. Anti-inflationary - not on your life. Did the Treasurer protest? Not on your life. He agreed with that statement, notwithstanding the buildup. The Prime Minister agreed with both of them. The  President  of the Australian Labor Party drove the final nail into the coffin by giving his imperial edict from London by saying that it was not anti-inflationary. This is the only point that they have all agreed on for months. They have certainly been unable to agree on anything since. Last Wednesday's great retreat is more and more taking on the proportions of a rout. 
When my colleague, the former Prime Minister,  Mr McMahon,  announced the election date in 1972, the then Leader of the Opposition in one of his typical performances rose and said: Well, 2 December is the anniversary of Austerlitz'. All I can say is that he is now on the retreat from Moscow. The Prime Minister's modesty prevented him from going any further on the way of his Napoleonic comparison. The proper comparison so much closer in time and place is with a man named James Scullin, who was Labor Prime Minister of Australia in 1931 in the life of the Twelfth Parliament. This is a more accurate comparison. The lack of agreement between Ministers is both obvious and astounding. We have Ministers with 5- point plans, Ministers with 6-point plans, Ministers with 9-point plans and Ministers with no plans at all. It would be laughable if it were not for the tragic implications to this country of the Government's failure to give leadership with a sound economic policy. 
The Opposition parties have made constructive proposals for many months. But nowhere has the Government set out in a speech or a published paper just what the Government's policy is. Every cupboard in the 'kitchen cabinet' is empty. Not a person in this Parliament, not a person in the public, not even a Minister, can take a paper or a series of papers and say: 'This is the Government's analysis of the economic position. This is the Government's policy for curing the problem.' This is the greatest abdication of government in the history of this country. 
All that the Australian people have been given since the election is a blow by blow account of ministerial infighting over economic policy. Surely the situation is at a critical stage when a senior Minister - the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  - No. 4 in the Cabinet - can tell a meeting of his colleagues in the Caucus of the Labor Party that the Labor Party is presiding over the destruction of the Australian economy. The 'kitchen Cabinet' met at Kirribilli House on the weekend of 25-26 May and really fell in the soup. It produced a decision to starve the States of funds and to make the States the scapegoats for Labor's policies. On 2 July there was a meeting of selected Ministers over dinner with the Prime Minister and senior government officials. The Prime Minister has refused to indicate what went on at that meeting. No sound policy statement has emerged from either of those gatherings. The Treasurer's statement of last week added nothing. 
On the first day of the current sitting this year, in response to a question, the Prime Minister told the House that the Government expected to get the rate of inflation down to 8 per cent by mid- 1975. Yet the Treasurer said on 24 June, shortly before that statement, in addressing the Australian Finance Conference: 
It would be optimistic to say that inflation can be reduced to a reasonable level in a period as short as 12 months. 
Is 8 per cent reasonable? Does the Treasurer contemplate a higher rate? What has  Mr Hawke  said? He is the  President  of the Party. He said that any rate of inflation whatsoever would be tolerable to prevent an increase in unemployment. What has the  Deputy  Prime Minister said? He said at the end of May that the inflation rate could be brought down by 5 per cent in the first year - that is, to around 8 per cent, but on present figures it would be around 10 per cent now - but that this would probably be at the cost of throwing 350,000 people or 6 per cent of the work force out of work. Is he the Government spokesman on economics? Is the spokesman still the Treasurer or is it even the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)?  The only thing of which we can be sure is that the Prime Minister has abdicated his economic leadership.  His  Government has lost the power of decision. It has no will or ability to produce a genuine anti-inflationary policy. 
I quote: 
. if the people who make up governments lose their way, become confused, forget what they're there for: If they become tired, dispirited and leaderless, then they cease to be a government, they become a rabble. 
Do honourable members recognise the words? They are words used by the present Prime Minister in 1972. They were written as Labor Party propaganda. But there was never a more appropriate prophecy made as to what that Party - the Labor Party - seeking government would come oy the middle of July 1974. 
Let us examine what the Prime Minister said to the Second National Conference of Industrial Relations Society on 29 June. He did not get a very good reception, I might say. He lost his cool, abused people in the audience, demanded that they stand up and identify themselves - and they did, and they repeated their criticisms. They made him know exactly what they felt. But he said this: 
Despite what our economic Jeremiahs might say, the last 18 months have been marked by exceptionally rapid growth. 
Compare those words with what the Treasurer said at the Australian Finance Conference 5 days earlier: 
The economy cannot, and should not bc allowed to, continue to grow at the breakneck pace of the past year if inflation is to be brought under control. 
These people really ought to get together occasionally and tell each other what the other is saying. 
As well, we had the extraordinary situation of the Minister for Labor and Immigration writing to the Treasurer and arguing that the Government had to change course. Somebody leaked the letter to the Press. Honourable members get no prizes for guessing who. But the Government refuses to allow that letter to be tabled or to be incorporated in Hansard so that there can be an official record of it. Everybody in Parliament House has a copy of it, except apparently the Prime Minister who said he had not seen it. He need only ask the doorman who would give him a copy of it. But this Government does not want that letter tabled or incorporated in Hansard. The Minister for Labor and Immigration has also been busy telling the Press and the Australian public that unemployment is going to rise and that he has felt that way for a long time now. Actually his last prediction was in late 1972, when he predicted confidently that unemployment in 1973 would rise to 250,000. At its highest point, it rose to about 128,000. In other words, he just manages to double things. He says that most professional economists are now predicting stagflation. Of course, he forgot to tell the Prime Minister that, because at a Press conference on 2 July the Prime Minister, although he had spoken extensively to the Minister for Labor and Immigration on the previous day, said he knew nothing of the Minister's predictions. At the Press conference the Prime Minister was, as usual, refusing to answer questions on the economy. In one of the few answers he gave he assured the Australian people that there would be no increase in unemployment. Will he still guarantee that? 
On that very same day the Minister for Labor and Immigration was engaged in the favourite pastime of Labor Ministers of leaking - not just any information but the June rise in unemployment and a record fall in job vacancies. He let the figures out 3 days in advance of the official release. Being always helpful, he gave the Prime Minister a hand. He gave him some assistance in making himself look foolish. We have even had the spectacle of the Minister for the Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass)  and the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant)  making statements on the economy. I can understand their frustrations at the lack of any cohesive statement from senior Ministers, but that does not justify their adding to the existing uncertainty, particularly when we are told that the Prime Minister and the Treasurer will speak for the Government on economic policy. That has not yet been told to the Minister for Labor and Immigration and the  Deputy  Prime Minister. 
If that is the case, will the real Treasurer please stand up? At last count this morning there were 6 Treasurers. There were the admitted disasters such as the Ministers for the Environment and Conservation. Imagine his impact statement on the economy. It would be bigger than the collected volumes of the British Encyclopaedia. Then we have the statement of the ex-Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, the present Minister for the Capital 
Territory. He is a great authority. Ask any turtle farm economist. Then there was the latter day Henry Georgist, the Minister for Labor and Immigration. Then there was the Deputy Prime Minister. He wanted wages restrained on Wednesday and he wanted them increased on Saturday. Just for good measure he warned everybody against putting their money in the bank because they could expect some bank crashes. Fortunately his credibility is so low that nobody took any notice of him. Australia would be the only country in the world where a statement of that character made by the Deputy Prime Minister would not lead to serious economic repercussions. His credibility is so low that what he said was just treated as a joke. Properly so. 
Then there was the title holder himself, the Treasurer, the one who just failed to stand up. He is the Treasurer for no credit squeeze and non-anti-inflation. Then there was the Minister for Social Security. He, poor chap, was laughed out of the Caucus room for opposing salary increases for members of Parliament. Lastly there was the Prime Minister - Women and Children Last Whitlam. The contrast between the Government's preelection propaganda statements on inflation and its post-election statements reveals an unprecedented deception. On 7 May the Prime Minister, in a written Press statement, said: 
Our policies are now beginning to work . . . Price increases are now slowing down as government policies take full effect. This trend will be confirmed in coming months . . . We are sure the June quarter will confirm that the inflationary trend is downwards. 
Compare that statement by the Prime Minister with his statement to the Premiers only a month later, well before the release of the June consumer price index. He said: 
The outlook for prices remains ominous. 
Compare it with this statement by the Treasurer last Tuesday night: 
The Government's hopes that the rate of price increase was slackening have proved illusory. 
Compare it with the June figures themselves. Compare it with this statement in May: 
Only Whitlam could reduce inflation by one-third. 
He was so much better. In June only Whitlam could increase inflation by more than twothirds. Remember also the Treasurer's unequivocal denial that he had any submission to raise interest rates in May, and remember the Prime Minister's promise to reduce interest rates as soon as economic conditions permitted it. Compare that with the movement in interest rates since the election, as shown in the table on page 374 of the Reserve Bank's June statistical bulletin. I ask for leave to incorporate this table in Hansard. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Which recommendations of the Coombs Task Force Report have been accepted by the Government, on what date were they accepted, and when was the acceptance made public. 
What is the saving/ additional cost that will result from each accepted recommendation. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has the Government authorised or conducted tests on the phospholipid, lecithin, particularly with respect to its impact on the cholesterol content of the blood stream. 
If so, what tests have been conducted, and what have been the results. 
If not, is the Government planning to carry out tests. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Are there any Departments or statutory authorities with overlapping functions. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
Has action been taken to establish facilities within the Department to provide market research and to handle trade inquiries from particular countries, as stated by the Prime Minister in Bangkok on 1 February 1974. 
What organisational form will these facilities take within the Department. 
For which specific countries are these facilities to be made available. 
Which countries have used these facilities to date, and for what purposes. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
What was the result of the study carried out in his Department to compile and assess material relating to household expenditure. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Has the Government considered the establishment of a bureau within the Department of Labor and Immigration, as discussed at the Industrial Peace Conference, to act as an information bureau for all parties involved in industrial disputes. 
If so, has the Government agreed to establish such a bureau. 
What will be the functions of the bureau. 
Has a proposal for the establishment of the office been submitted to the Public Service Board for approval. 
If so, what progress has been made by the Board on the submission. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
In what ways has the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories charter and activities in the Australian market for ethical drugs been expanded since 2 December 1972. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
When will the Government establish independent appeals tribunals for people in receipt of social service benefits. 
How many tribunals will be established. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Does the Government intend to expand the school of public health and tropical medicine to enable additional research to be undertaken to examine the occurrence of heart disease with refined food compared to people following vegetarian and whole grained diets. 
If so, when, and what is the size of the expansion. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Is it the Government's intention to establish an advisory council on drug use problems. 
asked the Prime Minister upon notice: 
Has the recent appraisal of the Dartmouth Dam, which indicated that it would not be appropriate to slow work on the project, been printed. 
Will it be tabled. 
I ask the Prime Minister whether he is aware that an advertisement appeared in the 'Daily Telegraph' on Thursday 16 May - 2 days before polling day - which read: 
Only Whitlam has a program for child care. 
It continued: 500,000 children will benefit from Whitlam's child care program by 1977. In the first year he will spend $130m on family day care programs, day centres, preschools, outside of school care, emergency and occasional care. 
I remind the Prime Minister that in his policy speech before the last election he described the areas of schools, health and social security as 'the only fields where meaningful cutbacks can be made'. He has now cut back on pre-school expenditure and on the abolition of the means test. Will he .now give an undertaking that there will be no cutback in expenditure on primary schools, secondary schools and technical and further education? 
(Bruce - Leader of the Opposition) -  Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in answer to a question - the one that led to a personal explanation by my colleague, the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  - insisted upon stating that he had read a document of mine which said that an amount of $20m would be spent by a Liberal-Country Party Government for both child care and retraining. He acknowledged that he saw the document. On reading that document the Prime Minister would know that $20m was in addition - it specifically said so - to all commitments that were made by the previous Government - that is, the Whitlam Government that was elected in 1972. At the election campaign it was pointed out that $20m was a modest amount but that it was to be allocated in addition to all commitments that were made. In fact the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  in his speech the other evening to this House said that all commitments had been fulfilled and that an extra $34m would be spent in this field. In the upshot we undertook to spend $20m on child care and retraining. The Treasurer acknowledges that an extra sum of $34m was needed to meet commitments already made. We would have matched the sum of $34m with an additional sum of $20m to be allocated for new commitments. Although the Prime Minister promised expenditure of $130m, in the upshot people did not get any of the J 130m. They would have received $20m from us and all the commitments would have been maintained. That is only a matter of mathematics. The question arises as to the honesty of the Government's promise. It made a promise to expend $130m and it will not be fulfilled. 
asked the Minister for the Environment and Conservation, upon notice: 
Will he provide a list of all formal committees, councils, etc., that have been established which enable him or officers of hisDepartment to maintain contact with State government ministers or State government officers. 
When was each body established and by whom. 
What is the (a) composition and (b) function of each body. 
On what occasions has each body met in the last 2 years and for what purpose. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon  notice: 
How many Government public servants are there in (a) Sydney, (b) Canberra, (c) Melbourne, (d) Brisbane, (e) Perth, (f) Adelaide, (g) Hobart, (h) Darwin and (i) other centres. 
asked the Minister representing  the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
How many Aborigines are taking advantage of the transport and fishing facility that has been provided for Aboriginal and Islander communities in the north of Australia. 
How many Aborigines have been trained or are being trained to use the vessels that have been provided. 
Who has been responsible for this training. 
Who will have responsibility and overall control of the facility. 
asked the Minister representing  the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Has any decision been taken to curtail or suspend the crocodile and turtle farming ventures in Western Australia which are being undertaken at Kalumburu and One Arm Point. 
Are those projects currently under examination as to whether Government funds should continue to be expended in these areas. 
If so, who is undertaking the examination, and when is it likely that it will be completed. 
asked the Special Minister of 
State, upon notice: . 
Who is undertaking the inquiry into freight rate disadvantages suffered by Tasmania 
When will the inquiry be completed? 
asked the Minister for Health,  upon notice: 
What is the membership  of  the working party established to investigate the provision of new medical and surgical aids including _ oxygen supplies to pensioner medical patients  in  their homes. 
What progress has been made in the investigation. 
What specific types of aids are under consideration. 
Will a report be prepared for him. 
Will the report be made available for public scrutiny. 
When will the working party conclude its investigations. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
'Does the Minister intend to send a team of experts to plan and develop activities at the Hooker Creek settlement. 
If so, when will the team go to the settlement. 
asked the Minister for  the  Capital Territory, upon notice: 
Has the Department converted any cars in its fleet to LP gas. 
Does he use battery-powered vehicles for activities in his Department. 
asked the Minister for  the  Australian Capital Territory, upon notice: 
When will dial-a-bus operate in Canberra. 
asked the Minister for the Environment and Conservation, upon notice: 
Does he still wish to make changes to the taxation system so that car owners pay the full cost of pollution from their vehicles. 
What was the result of discussions he has had on this matter with the Treasurer. 
asked the Minister for the Environment and Conservation, upon notice: 
Will he provide a list of all requests received by the Government for grants to enable environmental/conservation groups to receive assistance in preparing cases on specific issues of importance to them. 
What is the purpose of each request. 
To whom have grants been made to date. 
1 ask the Minister for Transport whether he has at any time called for a report which will measure the impact of the removal of the petroleum price equalisation subsidy on the cost of transport in rural areas of Australia. In particular, has he called for an inquiry to examine the added burden on local government and other administrative bodies in rural areas in meeting the increased charges which the Government's inflationary economic policy has created and which were so evident in all the replies that I received from local government bodies in rural and provincial towns in Australia? If such an inquiry has been held, will the Minister table the report? Has he provided any information to any other body, for example, the Caucus? If so, will he provide to the public what he provided to the Caucus? If no such inquiry has been held, will he immediately order his Department or the Bureau of Roads to do so and, after receiving the report, table it in this House? 

 Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. It is unfortunate that the Prime Minister just does not understand the point. Moore v Doyle is a case that occurred some 5 years ago. 
All right, 5i years ago. I am sure the Minister for Labor and Immigration is just as well aware as I am that it threw union organisations into serious turmoil. After that case there was a bi-partisan attempt to find a solution so that the Moore v Doyle case would not fracture unions. As a consequence of that the Minister for Labor set up through the employer bodies - .the national employers policy committee - and the Australian Council of Trade Unions a working party to advise the Commonwealth Government and the State governments how the problem could be overcome. It was a very difficult problem. Both sides, with the greatest goodwill, worked towards solving that problem. It was a long job. 
Tt is a personal explanation. 
I will keep to the point. Those discussions reached a point where there was a report. The Minister for Labor,  Mr Cameron  - I give him full credit for this - acted to solve the problem, because nobody was more aware of the difficulties than he, and he appointed Judge Sweeney to examine the matter. I understand that Judge Sweeney's report will be able to be published soon. Am I correct in saying that? 
Today. Everybody is looking for a solution to this problem. I come now to where the misrepresentation occurred. The Prime Minister said that the Moore v. Doyle case was Si years ago and that the Liberal Party-Country Party Government that was in office until December 1972 did nothing about the situation. The fact is that it did do something about it. It was the Government which initiated, in co-operation with the unions- 
It was the Prime Minister who said I had misrepresented him in the point of order I took while he was answering a question. I am explaining that he has misrepresented me by not understanding that he was making a blue himself. 

 - Mr Speaker, let us have one person speaking at a time. If the Prime Minister wants to say something further, I suggest that he should allow me to finish my remarks first. Anybody can get the report and read it as the Prime Minister did. Everybody knows the problem. It is finding the solution to the problem that was identified in the case that is difficult, and that is what everybody has been seeking to do. To allege that we did nothing is to totally- 
It is clear that this kind of attitude is wrong because there needs to be the greatest possible co-operation to solve a very difficult problem. The Transport Workers Union is registered as a State union and as a Federal union. It is a difficult problem that needs to be overcome. 
The point is taken,  Mr Speaker. 
I think that the matter has been cleared up to my satisfaction. The Prime Minister read from a report. If he reads 'from a law report, of course, he is reading something that is accurate. The misrepresentation comes from his attempting to use politically something which should not be used politically because we must have a settlement of the problem. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Following the meeting of representatives of member governments in 'Wellington from 5 to 8 March 1974, what proposals have been made for the revision of the Canberra Agreement of 1947 or its application. 
Did the Government of Fiji indicate reservations concerning some of these proposals. 
If so, what were these reservations, and to what aspects of the Canberra Agreement or decisions of the Wellington meeting did they refer. 
Did any other governments represented at the Wellington meeting express reservations along these lines; if so, which governments. 
What is the Government's attitude on these reservations as expressed at the Wellington meeting. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
How many women have been appointed to senior positions in his Department since 2 December 1972. 
Who are they. 
To what position has each been appointed, and what is the function of the position. 
asked the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, upon notice: 
Does the Government provide grants to all amateur sporting organisations in Australia to assist them send Australian teams to world championships overseas. 
If so, what assistance has been provided, to what organisations, for what purpose and to what extent in each of the last 3 years. 
If not, how does the Government determine which bodies will receive grants for this purpose. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Do United States aircraft engaged on supply missions, surveillance or similar operations in the Indian Ocean region use Cocos (Keeling) Islands as a staging point. 
Do the aircraft of any other nation use Cocos (Keeling) Islands. 
If so, what nations, and for what purposes do they use Cocos (Keeling) Islands in each case. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a statement by the United Nations' Secretary-General that a form of Marshall Plan is necessary to provide assistance to drought areas in Northern and Western Africa. 
If so, does the Government support this proposal. 
If the proposal is supported, what action is being considered concerning the arrangements proposed by the Secretary-General. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
Has he had prepared under contract a report on the requirements for computer education in Australia. 
If so, when was the project commissioned. 
Who is undertaking the project. 
What are its terms of reference. 
Has a report been prepared and submitted to him; if so, when. 
Does he intend to table this report; if so, when. 
What fees have been paid for the project. 
asked the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, upon notice: 
Can he say what (a) after school and (b) school holiday recreation programs are being undertaken for children with (i) Australian Government, (ii) State Government and (iii) local government financial support. 
If so, what is the extent of the financial support in each case in terms of (a) buildings, (b) equipment and (c) staff expenditure. 
asked the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, upon notice: 
Has he pursued with the Government the question of the sealing of the Alpine Way as he undertook at the 15th Annual Conference of the Tourist Ministers' Council. 
If so, what was the result. 
If not, when docs he intend to do so. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: .(1) How many officers in his Department have been given some form of formal training in financial or auditing procedures used in Commonwealth departments in the last 12 months. 
What is the division and classification of these officers. 
How many of these officers were in operational as distinct from financial or accounting, positions in the Service. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
How many officers of his Department are concerned with aspects of occupational health and safety. 
What is the function of each of the positions which they hold. 
asked the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, upon notice: 
Who is undertaking the feasibility study to examine the construction of a sports university in Australia. 
What are the terms of reference of the study, and when is it expected that the study will be completed. 
Will a report be prepared for the Government, and will it be made public. i(4) Does the Government intend to send a task force to Europe to study overseas sport institutions. 
If so, who will comprise this group. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
Has the Government made a decision on a permanent site for the Commonwealth Brickworks presently located at Yarralumla. 
Does he intend to expand the output of the brickwork with a view to it supplying the Albury/ Wodonga market. 
asked the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, upon notice: 
How many recreation officers does the Commonwealth employ. 
When does the Minister intend beginning a scheme to ask companies to use Government recreation officers in their factories. 
asked the Minister for Tourism  and Recreation, upon notice: 
Does the Australian Government intend to introduce an Australia Games. 
asked the Minister for Tourism  and Recreation, upon notice: 
How many overseas tourists visit Australia each year. 
From which 5 countries do most tourists come. 
What was the estimated gross expenditure by overseas tourists in Australia in the most recent year for which statistics are available. 
asked the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, upon notice: 
Does the Government intend to develop holiday cottages throughout Australia. 
If so, what will be the purpose of these cottages. 
Where will they be located, and what will be the cost of the scheme. 
asked the Minister for Health,  upon notice: 
Is he examining a radio and television antismoking advertising campaign. 
If so, what form will it take, and what expenditure will be involved. 
I give notice of my intention to present at the next sitting a Bill for an Act to amend the States Grants (Petroleum Products) Act 1965-1973. 
 My question is addressed to the Minister for Transport. Will he give, here and now, a clear, unequivocal undertaking that the price of crude oil will not be increased in Australia for the next 5 years? 
An examination of this Bill will reveal that it is really a quite remarkable piece of legislation. Clause 4 of the Bill is the central point which establishes the whole direction in which the legislation runs. 
Therefore, in speaking to clause 4, it is inevitable that one will need to describe in brief terms what the legislation purports to do. The Bill will have 3 main effects. Firstly, the Commonwealth, without detailed or expert know-how on the subject of road building requirements, will be able to pass judgment on and make decisions relating to all - I emphasise the word 'all' - road building projects undertaken by State and local government authorities. This Bill will enable the supervision of the construction of every piece of road pavement constructed in Australia. Whether it is to be constructed 1,000 miles away or 1,000 metres away, the Commonwealth will be able to supervise it in its entirety. 
Secondly, the taxes and charges raised by elected State governments and local government authorities are to be spent in a way determined by Commonwealth Ministers or those Ministers' delegates who, of course, by definition will be public servants. It will be a public servant in whom the authority to make the decision resides. The third purport of the Bill is to make a State responsible for anything which any road construction body may do but if any road constructing authority spends money on a project not approved by the Commonwealth Minister the State can in effect be fined by the Commonwealth. 
And fined in a very serious way. But let us clarify this point in our minds. A State cannot be fined as an entity as though it is something separate. What happens is that the people who live in that State are fined. There are 3 levels of government in Australia. There is the Commonwealth Government, the State governments and local government authorities. Each individual Australian has, so to speak, 3 identities. He has his identity as he is regulated and as he participates and elects people to local government authorities and to State and Federal governments. To give supremacy to the Federal Government in this way is to take away from the individual part of his character. The individual must be able to say that he wants to have in local government man X, woman A, woman B or whoever it may be. If they do not perform he can then say: 'I will vote them out of office'. The same applies to State governments and the Federal government. What is happening by reason of this legislation is that before any road can be built a plan has to be formulated by local government or by State government and then it has to be submitted to the czar. I ask honourable members to have a look at the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones).  Can they not imagine him as a bust on top of a piece of marble - Czar Jones of Newcastle, a magnificent profile. Czar Jones will be the person who decides- 
Czar Jones will have the responsibility under the Act to decide whether a scheme will be approved. 
This is not personalities, I might- 
I will refer to him by his office. The Minister, for Transport will under the terms of this Bill be elevated to the role of czar. He will be able to determine where every piece of road pavement made in Australia goes. It would not matter whether it was outside this place, outside the State governments' offices in the capital cities or outside the municipal office of any local government body. He is the one who will decide whether it can go ahead. The extraordinary thing that results from this is that a political party in a State can have an election and it can say to the people: 'Elect us and we will do this', outlining road making plans. The people of the State can approve that promise by electing that Party into government. Having elected it into government the new Cabinet or the returned Cabinet can, in accordance with its electoral mandate, formulate plans to build those roads. The czar created by this legislation can then say: 'We refuse to allow you to do it'. It will not even be the czar who says that; it wil be his nominated delegate. 
The effect of this legislation is that no single municipality in Australia can take a decision to buy such a simple thing as a road grader without the approval of the delegate of the Minister in Canberra. Government members might look out over the waters of Lake Burley Griffin but this Bill will not enable them to walk on that water. The Opposition ought not try to give the Government members the impression that we credit them with that amount of wisdom. We do not want to see compartmentalised decisions taken by nominated public servants, with a chain of policy command going right down through State governments and local governments. The essential question that the people of Australia are going to ask on this issue is: 'Does a Second Division officer or a First Division officer of the Public Service in Canberra who may receive a high salary better represent us than do the councillors of the city of Box Hill, Camberwell, Burwood, Parramatta or Sturt?' 
Will the people of these cities be better represented by a level 4 Second Division public servant in Canberra or will they be better represented by the people who they elect and whom they have the capacity to sack? 
In a situation where there is a flood which results in the wash out of 6 bridges or a road washaway the local government body concerned will not be able to repair those bridges or the roadway until the Minister or his delegate agrees to this work being done. Under the terms of the Bill local government or State government has no right or authority to meet any emergency that arises. The Minister stood up and said: 'We are determined to fix the road access to and from airports.' But the people who determine where the funds will be spent are the State governments and the local governments. Despite this, the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  asks the Minister whether there is to be an airport in his electorate, and if there is, where, and what will be the access to it by road. 
The Minister is clothed with unusual wisdom according to the Act, but I can assure honourable members .that there is no Act of Parliament which will give him wisdom, and there is no Act of Parliament which will give a public servant understanding, compassion or humanity or make him answerable to the people of Australia through the ballot box. We had the extraordinary spectacle of the Prime Minister saying that democracy is being white-anted. But what is white-anting it? This sort of legislation! 
 No piece of legislation can invest a Minister or a public servant with wisdom. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  can talk about white-anting democracy, but what are we here for? Last night we were told that we were to sit today. The Government could not make up its mind until 10.30 last night whether or not we would sit today. The Government was not able to say till a week ago whether a joint sitting would be held. The Government first said that it would be in the first 3 weeks. Talk about white-anting parliamentary procedures! There is no more real way of doing that than by giving more and more decisions to Ministers and more and more decisions to public servants. The Government wants to get this sitting over with. But why are we sitting today? Why are we sitting on the fourth day in this week? Why are we sitting early in the mornings? We are doing so because the Cabinet is frightened of Caucus. We are meeting at 10 a.m. on Tuesday and 12 noon on Wednesdays because the Government wants to cut down the amount of time that is available to members of Caucus to examine legislation. 
I cannot believe that members of the Labor Party conscientiously and honestly want public servants to make these decisions. If this happens it will not be long before tha people in their electorates and municipalities start to realise that their elected officials no longer have responsibility. If we are to change the system and concentrate power in Canberra let us do it by way of referendum. Let us put in a referendum, to the people, the simple question: 'Are you in favour of giving the Commonwealth Parliament the right to pass legislation which removes policy decisions from local government and State government bodies?' But what has the Government done? It uses the knuckleduster - that is the sort of fight this is - because it has the power of the purse. This Government will strangle other governments and, in strangling those governments, put all the power here in Canberra. Well, I suppose that for a while people will accept that that is the way things are going because they do not see any great problems in it at the moment. But, as the process continues, local government bodies will cease to have a role to play in this country. 
We can no longer accept this proposal. We have decided to fight it. We will not be intimidated by the Minister for Transport. If the legislation is passed, it will be an attempt to convert the Minister into a man with the powers of Caesar. But we will fight this proposal all the way down the line. We will not be intimidated. You will remember,  Mr Chairman,  that last week we took the decision that we would forgo the proposed rise in our parliamentary salaries. The Prime Minister tried to intimidate us into abandoning our decision by saying: 'All in, all out, one in, one out'. 
I was indicating that last week there was an attempt to intimidate us, and we would not be intimidated. This week- 
 This week there is an attempt to intimidate us by the Minister for Transport saying: 'If you proceed with your amendments, no money at all will be provided'. All right. If the situation comes to that, the people will have to judge whether the sort of government that they want is one that seeks to intimidate by threatening the withdrawal of money simply because it wants to make the decisions itself. Are the Australian people to be treated as though they have no sense, no understanding and no will to make their own decisions? That is what the Minister is pro posing to do by this legislation. If no money is to be provided, let this be understood: We support the provision of the money proposed to be allocated by this legislation. We support also the right of the State governments and local governments to be involved in decision taking. We do not support the arrogation of the right to take all decisions in these matters to one Minister - the Minister for Transport - or his delegate. Additionally, the Minister for Transport and the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  must be satisfied as to the purpose for which funds are allocated. They could have a row. We can imagine them disagreeing for months. No money would be provided because of their disagreement. 
Let the issues be clear. The issues are these: Is there to be a concentration of all decision making power in the Minister for Transport and his delegate, or is there to be a continuation of the involvement of State and local government bodies in that process? The matter is as simple as that. 
Yes, a partnership, as mentioned by the honourable member for Parramatta. Australia is crying out for leadership and for co-operation, not confrontation. But what it is being offered by the Minister for Transport in confrontation. If the game is to be played in this way, I regret it. But, if it must be played in this way, we will have to fight. If we really want to see the country benefitted, the way to achieve that result is to make the money available in a fully co-operative manner. 
The Minister for Transport can amend this legislation very easily by proposing that the determination of the totality of road making plans be separated out into the national highways - we started the research on that aspect when we were in government; so of course we support it now - and then the urban arterial roads and urban local roads and the rural arterial roads and rural local roads for which grants are to be available. There is no reason why the Government should not say to local government bodies with respect to certain roads: 'You look after these. We are the national Government. We have national interests. We want to co-operate with you in these national interests'. But the proposal that we have before us is that the Minister for Transport will be responsible for determining, for example, whether the street outside my house can be built by the local government body. It is an absurd proposition; that has only to be stated to be understood. I make an appeal to the Minister, in the interests of achieving the passage of this Bill in a sensible form. The Minister should not say aggressively: 'You have to do it my way or it is "All out".' The Minister does not possess all wisdom and nor does his delegate possess all wisdom. Wisdom is spread. The quality of democracy is that power is spread between Commonwealth Government, State governments, local government bodies and their respective employees. 
The Government and the Opposition have a common objective; that is to provide the money for road improvement and to do the job for everybody. I ask the Minister: Please, change your attitude. He will receive total cooperation from the Opposition if he changes his attitude, and the Australian people will benefit from it. Then he will be known as a benefactor and not, as he is likely to be known, as the protector of a bureaucratic inter.ferer who has no understanding of what is in the best interests of the people of Australia. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
How many Public Service positions which have been declared vacant in each of the last two years have been advertised on the basis that recruitment will be as a permanent officer of the Public Service but applications may also be made on the basis of employment for a two year, or some other specified, period. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
What investigations have been commissioned on referral from the Government to the Priorities Review Staff. 
Has the Priorities Review Staff made any reports to the Government other than its interim report in December 1973; if so, what reports have been made. 
asked the Prime Minister: 
Will he provide a list of all grants, to any organisation or individual, that are provided from moneys appropriated to his Department, or authorities under his control, to undertake research. 
To what bodies have such moneys been advanced, and what was or is the nature of the research being undertaken as a result of the grants in each of the last 3 years. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Has the Government established a committee to examine the question of increasing surveillance of Australia's coastline. 
If so, what is the composition of the committee and its terms of reference. 
Has the committee submitted a report to the Government. 
If so, does the Government intend to table this report. 
If it has not submitted a report when is it expected that the committee will finalise its work and present a report to the Government, and when does the Government expect to reach a decision to ensure that adequate facilities are available for this surveillance. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
How many applications has the Visual Arts Board received from public art galleries and art collections  for  assistance with exhibitions. 
From whom have the applications been received, and for what purpose. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
How many applications have been received from public galleries or art collections for matching grants to purchase works of art by living Australian artists. 
From whom have the applications been received. 
What amounts have been sought, and which Australian artists are involved. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice:  'Did he indicate to the Australian Automobile Association in 1972 that a Labor Government would not further decrease the percentage of fuel tax finance then allocated to roads. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What was the proportion of public enterprise and general government capital expenditure as a proportion of total fixed capital expenditure in (a) 1971- 72, (b) 1972-73 and (c) 1973-74. 
What increase, in dollar terms, on latest available figures would have been required to bring the proportion to 40 per cent. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Is there an interdepartmental committee report suggesting that Australia should have a coast guard unit in Australia's territorial waters. 
If so, would such a unit have a national security purpose. 
What action has been taken on the report, and will it be tabled. 
asked the Minister representing  the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
How many women have been appointed to senior positions in the Department of Foreign Affairs since  2  December 1972. 
Who are they. 
To what position has each been appointed, and what is the function of the position. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
How many women work part-time in the Public Service. 
In what departments do they work. 
What is the average number of hours worked per week. 
How many of the women are married. 
What is the age structure of these women. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Does the Government intend to revise section 55 of the Public Service Act concerning offences by public servants; if so, when. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that staff associations or representatives of Public Service staff associations do not take part in any tribunals established to examine charges of alleged breaches of the Public Service Act by Second Division public servants. (.2) If so, what is the attitude of the Government to this situation. 
Does the Government propose to take action to allow representation by staff associations. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the Brotherhood of St Laurence, the Italian Community Service Fund and the Council on the Ageing have criticised the Government's decisions to alter the subsidy on aged persons' homes to allow$4 for every$1 spent on aged housing but to leave the maximum limit of the subsidy at 59,000. 
Is it also a fact that, without an increase in the limit of the subsidy, the alteration of the basis upon which the subsidy is paid will be of little additional assistance, particularly in view of the serious erosion that inflation has caused in the real money value of the $9,000 limit. 
Will he consider increasing the maximum limit. 
asked the Minister for Social Security upon notice: 
What is his attitude to the view of the Council on the Ageing that inflation has severely eroded the ability of the meals-on-wheels service to continue the standard of its service. (2)Is it the intention of the Government to accept the Council's view that there is a need for the Government's subsidy of 20 cents to be increased; if so, when will the subsidy be increased; if not, why not. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Further to the answer to question No. 514 of 21 March 1974, in which he indicated that he proposed to bring up to date at the end of the Autumn sittings the list of all commissions of inquiry, committees and task forces that have been established since 2 December 1972, has the information been brought up to date. 
If so, will he incorporate a copy in Hansard. 
If not, when will the information be 'brought up to date. 
The Opposition does not propose to nominate any person for the position of  Chairman  for reasons which I will briefly state when the  Chairman  takes his place. 
This is indeed an historic occasion. So many people have described it as such that one is convinced it must be. In fact, it has not occurred for 72 years. Although there are many people in the community who are wishing that the necessary pre-condition- that is a double dissolution- would occur much more quickly and that it might occur very shortly, I do not contribute to any speculation about it. 
But this hope is heard expressed wherever one goes throughout the country. Many people are likely to see this Joint Sitting as an anticlimax. This morning I was reminded by my colleague, the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  of a story about the parliament of Russia. The parliament of Russia was discussing the colour that the Russian clergy should wear while Lenin was taking over the country. That in many ways is the point here: The Joint Sitting is anticlimactic in a sense simply because one of the great issues of today is the issue of inflation, about which the Government has done nothing and has offered no leadership. The Government has not given an analysis of the causes of inflation. Nowhere can anybody find a piece of paper or several pieces of paper and say: 'This is the Government's analysis of the problem of inflation and these are the policies by which it will be dealt'. At the present time we have strikes in two major States - 

 -Mr Chairman, these issues are of major importance to the entire community and no leadership has been given by this Government. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in opening this historical sitting said that it had been caused by the repeated refusal of the Senate to pass some Bills. That is certainly true. But the construction put upon it by the Prime Minister was that the Senate and the Opposition were resolved to obstruct the passage of legislation. We are not resolved to obstruct legislation. We are resolved not to let legislation go through the House of Representatives and the Senate which we believe is bad in principle and which would detract from the constitutional principles of parliamentary democracy. When such legislation is put before either House of the Parliament we will do all we can to prevent its passing and if that is what 'obstruct' means then the word has found a new meaning in the dictionary. I will shortly describe the legislation now before the House in detail. It must be remembered that the legislation was introduced by the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly).  At least that is his official title; but he is generally known as the Minister for the conservation of a Labor government in office even with a minority of the votes. 
This legislation seems simple, and it is; but it has an explosive political content. The proposal is that there should be some changes- they sound simple- first cut down the margin from 20 per cent above or below the quota to only 10 per cent. The proposal was put in propaganda terms to be very democratic because the numbers in electorates would be closer. But that is a facile view and cannot stand up to examination. The second purpose is to revise the Commissioners' instructions as to what they should take into account when recommending a redistribution. The third purpose is to change the frequency with which there would need to be electoral redistributions. Currently when there is a redistribution, the Distribution Commissioners appointed for the purpose look to the legislation to find their instructions as to how they should conduct that redistribution. They now find that when redistributing seats, no seat can be more or less than 20 per cent from the quota. I will not go into the way in which the quota is determined, but let us assume that it is 50,000. There can then be a clear margin above or below that figure. The Distribution Commissioners are able to go to the full length of those margins now. The proposed change in the law will mean that they will not be able to go to 20 per cent above or below but only to 10 per cent above or below. That is the first provision, and that is political dynamite. It is the basis upon which a gerrymander can be built by the Labor Party. That is why we oppose it. 
The other criteria in the present Act relating to instructions to the electoral Commissioners are that they should take into account community of interest, means of communication and travel, the trend up or down of population figures, physical features and the existing boundaries. There are 3 additional matters which the Distribution Commissioners may take into account now under the present Act. One is remoteness or distance within the area; the second is the density or sparsity of population; and the third is the area of the division. Each of those 3 considerations are to be taken out of the Act by the proposal now before us. In other words, the electorates of Kalgoorlie, Darling and Leichhardt are to be treated exactly the same as an inner metropolitan electorate of Sydney or Melbourne. This is an absurd proposition. Under the proposal now before us the Distribution Commissioners will not be allowed to consider density in inner Sydney or sparsity in outback Kalgoorlie. These considerations are to be removed if this Bill becomes law. The Bill proposes then firstly that the quota shall be reduced from 20 per cent to 10 per cent and secondly that the critical considerations of remoteness, density and area shall be removed from the present Act. These 3 considerations are essential to give some reality to the representation of electors in each electorate. If this vast continent is to have people populating it in as broad a way as possible the 3 provisions that I have just outlined are necessary. Australia is one continent and a single country, and the fact that people come from Western Australia, Queensland or Tasmania does not make any difference to their essential character as Australians. There is no immediately observable difference between Tasmanians and Queenslanders and we want to maintain that in the future. 
The history of the 20 per cent margin now in the Act goes back to 1902. 1 know that things are not right simply because they have been there for a long time. But to allege that a great new truth has suddenly been found in 1974 and that it has eluded the search of all people of all political  persuasions in the Parliament for 72 years is nonsense. Under the present system of redistribution, seats gained in Commonwealth parliamentary elections have reflected with sufficient accuracy the number of votes cast for a party or groups of parties. 
One need only remember that the Labor Party polled less than 50 per cent of the votes in 1972 and again in 1974 but gained more than 50 per cent of the seats. That is a test of fairness about which we may fairly bridle. 
The fundamental test must be one vote one value. We support the principle of one vote one value but the Labor Party does not. The Labor Party put forward a constitutional proposal which would have torpedoed any consideration of the principle of one vote one value. The Labor Party wanted to give votes to people under the voting age and to people who were not citizens by drawing up electorates on the basis of population. If the Labor Party had been allowed to do this it would have created for itself immense political advantage for the Labor Party but would have abandoned the principle of one vote one value. Fortunately the people of Australia were not hoodwinked, even by the name of the referendum proposal which described it as a democratic amendment to the Constitution. 
We agree with the principle of one vote one value but what we feel is important is to make it clear that one vote one value means that no sectional or geographical group should ever exert more influence than its numbers warrant. It is totally impossible to have every electorate with exactly the same number of electors at all times. We would find that the day after the Electoral Office opened after a redistribution had taken place people who had died or people who had moved out of the electorate would have to be taken off the electoral rolls. This would mean that the electorates would be out of balance again. All one can do is to approach the problem by maintaining electorate equality as near as practicable. That is the history of electoral balance in Australia. 
Let me take New South Wales as an example. I know that the Labor Party will allege that the Opposition is opposing this Bill because of country interests, whether they be the interests of the Country Party or of country members of the Liberal Party. But the views of the Country Party and the Liberal Party coincide totally. We are not prepared to have the needs of country electors ignored. But equally we will adhere to the principle of one vote one value. New South Wales represents a typical example of the rest of 
Australia. The fact is that when looking at New South Wales one has to exclude the electoral division of Darling, as Darling, centred on Broken Hill, is one of the smallest electorates in Australia. Certainly it is a very small electorate in New South Wales. Because of its peculiarity in respect of community of interest, remoteness, distance to travel, etc., the Division of Darling has been accepted by all parties since Federation as one which will be small by comparison with other electorates. The seat happens to be held by the Labor Party. 
Excluding that example, the cold mathematical facts are that a vote given a value of one in metropolitan Sydney is worth less than a vote in outback or rural New South Wales where the value is 1.05. Point zero five is the extra loading for people facing the problems of remoteness, distance, difficulty of transport and communication and the difficulty of a member representing his electors and the electors having access to him. That is not too high a price to pay. It would be too high a price to pay only if it distorted representation, but it certainly does not do this, because the Labor Party holds a preponderance of the seats in New South Wales. In fact the Labor Party holds more seats in this House proportionally than the votes it polled. The Labor Party polled less than 50 per cent of the votes yet it has more than 50 per cent of the seats. So it is nonsense to pretend that one can equalise electorates so as to give a value of better than one to 1.05. 
It is necessary to consider that in Australia 7 seats are each over 120,000 square miles in area. Some city seats are a mere  Vh  square miles. Can one say to electoral Distribution Commissioners: 'You must apply exactly the same criteria to 3^ square miles as to 120,000 square miles'? That is absurd. The argument needs only to be stated to be seen to be absurd. The electoral Division of Kalgoorlie is most of Western Australia. It is 7 times the size of England and Wales. It is 870,000 square miles. Under this legislation Distribution Commissioners will be told: 'If you want to give that seat more than 10 per cent below the quota you are acting unlawfully.' Is Kalgoorlie to become not 870,000 square miles but 1,000,000 square miles? Will such a redistribution serve the interests of the people of Australia? The seats of Leichhardt, Kennedy and Maranoa occupy most of Queensland. Grey and Wakefield occupy most of South Australia. All these seats are bigger than most countries of the world. There are 23 country seats in Australia over 10,000 square miles in area. 
Is the Labor Party serious about its proposal? Let us examine it for its authenticity. Let us examine it to see whether when the Labor Party states its purpose one can believe it. In Western Australia, where there was provision for a margin of only 10 per cent above or below the quota, a State Labor Government actually increased the variation to 20 per cent. That was in 1972 or 1 973 that the government- a Labor Government -actually increased it to 20 per cent. The State Labor Government knew that it could not get by on a mere 10 per cent margin. It increased the quota to 20 per cent. Seats with such margins in Federal divisions have existed for 72 years. That system has survived and it has never in any way dinted democracy. In fact, it has contributed to democracy. In the recent distribution of Federal electorates in Western Australia, when the State Labor Party wanted to reduce the margin to 10 per cent, what did the Distribution Commissioners do? They gave two seats a margin of over 10 per cent- one of them was 13.29 per cent above- because the Commissioners knew that such adjustments had to be made and were appropriate. When the Labor Government went to the people with its referendum it abandoned the concepts of this Bill. It put in the referendum proposal an entirely different concept- to redistribute according to population and not according to voters and not according to the principle of one vote one value. 
The Constitutional Review Committee has been referred to. It seems to be the basis of the Government's whole argument- that is its publicly presented argument. But it is not the basis of the Government's argument in fact. The basis of its argument in fact is that the Government believes that there can be manipulation in its favour to preserve it in office with under 50 per cent of the votes. The fact is that the Constitutional Review Committee ignored all professional advice. The Commonwealth electoral officer, the State surveyors-general and the State electoral officers all said that a capacity of 20 per cent was needed. The Government ignored that advice. It is still ignoring advice. Remember the Trade Practices Bill, which, according to the Government had to go through the Parliament urgently? The Government itself later brought the Bill back with over 100 amendments. So it is still ignoring advice. 
In 1955 the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  made a statement which is reported in Hansard. He talked about  Senator Wright  changing his mind. Listen to this change of mind. The Prime Minister said: 
At least the numbers should be approximately equal, within the perfectly reasonable latitude of 20 per cent . . . 
In 1968 there was a redistribution of your electorate of Sydney,  Mr Chairman,  and of the electorate of the Minister for Services and Property or Minister for electoral conservation, however one sees it- the electorate of Grayndler. Each of those seats was above quota by 13 per cent and 1 4 per cent respectively. By 1 974 they were down to minus 1 7 per cent and minus 1 4 per cent. They went right through the barrier. I do not intend my remarks as a criticism of the Distribution Commissioners, but they should have taken the seats of Sydney and Grayndler right out to the limit of 20 per cent to allow for their downward movement. My own electorate was 2 per cent below the quota and it is now 21 per cent above it. The electorate of Mitchell was about level and it is now plus 29 per cent. If we are looking for true democracy why have we allowed this to happen? The answer is that the Distribution Commissioners did not take full scope of the capacity allowed them, which is 20 per cent and not 10 per cent. 
Let me make this clear: The Labor Party thinks that it can take advantage of population moves. We are determined, as long as we can fight, not to let the Government do that by this means. Let me also make this clean It is not an instruction to the Distribution Commissioners to make the difference 20 per cent; it is a capacity or a power that the Distribution Commissioners have to make the difference up to 20 per cent if they can see that there will be great movements in population. In fact when they redistributed in 1968 they allowed a bigger margin than 10 per cent in 27 seats out of 123. Only 90 seats out of 123 were below 10 per cent. That shows that there was not some giant forcing them to go to 20 per cent instead of 10 per cent. The norm is below 10 per cent Only 6 seats were between 15 per cent and 20 per cent. 
The Prime Minister has been very interested in electoral affairs throughout his career. In 1962 he wrote to the Distribution Commissioner and said: 'The way to do this is not to start off so that everything will be equal but to ask how long the redistribution will last. A census is taken every 7 years and that is usually about the time a redistribution lasts. Try to work it out so that they are equal in term'. He was right in 1962; but he is horribly wrong in 1974. 
I found the speech by  Mr Berinson,  the honourable member for Perth, quite a remarkable one. Anybody who listened to him would realise that the essential message coming out of his speech was this: 'For goodness sake, do not talk any more about this health scheme because the more it is talked about the more it is exposed for its essential badness.' The more it is talked about the more it will become clear to the people of Australia that if this scheme is imposed upon Australia and Australians succeeding generations will go through difficulties the like of which we can save them from now. All we need to do is abandon this commitment to a socialist philosophy. I know that people say: 'Let us examine it for its quality and not condemn it because it is socialistic' On this occasion it is condemned on both counts. It has been suggested that we should not continue debating it. Let me tell the honourable member for Perth, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  and the entire Australian nation that we will fight this scheme continually and positively, and in the end we will defeat it because it is a bad scheme. 
The objectives of any health scheme are basically the same, whether they are the objectives of the nation or the objectives of a person. A person wants to be fully covered for any sickness, any accident or any debility that he may have. He wants a choice of doctor, hospital and the level of care in a hospital. He wants access to and the choice of the paramedical services which are so necessary, especially after surgery. A person wants access to doctors and hospitals. He does not want a perpetual wait in a doctor's surgery. When he needs elective surgery he does not want to have to wait and wait before it can be done in a hospital. He wants the choice of intermediate or private ward care. Why must everybody look as near to a pea in a pod as a socialist government can make him? Why must he receive public ward care? Why should he sit in a designated doctor's surgery and wait until he gets his bottle of coloured water which will make him better? 
What is needed is that when a person requires health care, he must have access to it. That is what we want to provide. Personal requirements are the same as national requirements. Our purpose as members of Parliament, or as members of a Government or the Opposition, is to establish a policy which will achieve those things for people. The individual has to be able to pay for these things but not at such a level that they take from him the capacity to spend on other necessities and other comforts. That is the objective of government, but we do not want instituted a national health scheme which will send us broke. That could very easily happen. 
The honourable member for Perth said that this debate did not start at the time of the double dissolution. How true that is. He said that this debate started long ago. All right, let us go back to 1967. In that year  Mr Whitlam  is reported in Hansard as having said: 
We can- and a Labor Government would- build an alternative public health service within the limits of present health expenditures in Australia. 
When was a more stupid statement made? He said that he would build this scheme within the limits of the existing costs of the health scheme in 1967. The absurdity of that statement is such that one needs only to read it to know that he did not know what he was talking about. He did not understand the subject. He did not begin to understand it. We all know that the Minister for Social Security,  Mr Hayden,  will not cost his health scheme. He will not put a money figure on it. He does not want to disclose the consequences. The honourable member for Perth, hoping to defuse the issue, said: 'Do not debate this subject because it has all been said.' Has it all been said? On 26 July, less than 2 weeks ago, the Prime Minister said: 
At present, health services cost our nation more than $2,000m a year, or about S.3 percent of gross domestic product. Their cost is increasing so dramatically that it has been estimated that our expenditure on health services could be more than 12 per cent of gross domestic product by the year 2000. 
The honourable member for Perth wants to stop the debate now, but the Prime Minister wants to talk about health services in the year 2000. Let us compare the 2 statements of the Prime Minister. He said that the present cost of health services is 5.3 per cent of gross domestic product and that the cost in the future would be 12 per cent. Compare those figures with his statement when he launched the proposal and said: 'We can provide it within the limits of the present health expenditure'. What are the consequences of expanding the cost from 5.3 per cent to 12 per cent of gross domestic product? He was talking about our gross domestic product, which is a finite amount, a finite concept. We can put a money figure on it and escalate that figure and nobody will take much notice of it in these days of 14 per cent inflation. People say that it is just more money, and really do not understand the concept clearly. But people can understand it clearly if we refer to 5 per cent of the whole of our gross domestic product and expand that figure to 12 per cent, thus contracting the remainder of the gross domestic product. There is no way of escaping that concept; it is real and inescapable. This is what this Government is committing us to. 
In present day terms our gross domestic product is about $45,000m. Health services, representing 5.3 per cent of our gross domestic product, cost us $2,385m. For these purposes I will refer to it as $2,400m. Twelve per cent of gross domestic product would be $5,400m. In other words, we are being asked to accept a scheme which, on the Prime Minister's estimate, in today's terms would cost us $3,000m more than the present scheme. There is no point in rushing into it and saying that we did not know the gun was loaded; we do know that the gun is loaded. 
Let us see what these figures mean. In today's terms the extra cost of $3,000m- that is the difference between $2,400m and $5,400mwould represent an increase of about two and a quarter- between two and two and a half- in the share of the gross domestic product given to health services. What does that mean to the rest of us? It means a diversion from all other spending in the community. For example, it must cut down our capacity to spend on education, conservation, defence, roads, urban improvement and pensions. 
To put it in some form of perspective, if this scheme were in operation today the extra cost would mean that the entire Commonwealth spending on defence, plus the entire Commonwealth spending on education, would be totally obliterated. The money would be going to health. The total spending on defence and education by the Commonwealth was $2,200m but the extra cost of this scheme is $3,000m. Cut out education and defence spending entirely and we still have not got the $3,000m that would be needed, on the clear statement of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  to meet the cost of the scheme. Let me give another example of how costly this scheme would be. The entire social security and welfare, and housing expenditure by the Commonwealth comes to $2,975m. This health scheme would drag away all of that expenditure on those items of social security and welfare and of housing. The man who runs the Ontario health scheme- nowadays Canada is the criterion for all things, and Ontario is the place from where a lot of this health scheme was taken- said this: 
It is up to the politicians to reform the monster before it bankrupts the economy and destroys itself. 
This is the scheme we are not merely being asked to accept; we are being told to be good chaps and to let it through. The Opposition will not abandon its duty to the Australian people in that way. We will fight and continue to fight until we are defeated. In Canada the spending on health services is one of the highest portions of gross domestic product in the world, and Canada still has not a health scheme which satisfies anybody. Everybody knows that in Sweden the weight of taxpaying around the neck of the individual is gradually starting to deprive the whole country of any incentive. I am informed that half of the Swedes have to take out private insurance anyway notwithstanding the massive taxes they are paying to try to finance the health scheme. 
The point is that this expense is just massive. It would be economic madness to incur it. If the Government were going to produce a good health scheme we could make a choice and say: 'A good health scheme we will have to pay for and we opt for it. ' We could do that. But how can anyone declare this to be a good health scheme when the people who deliver the health scheme- the medical profession- will not have a bar of it? Are we to run a health scheme without doctors? That is the sort of socialist AliceinWonderland world that we are told we can live in. I do not believe it. At the present time the economy is in disastrous shape. It is all Labor's fault. It has a mad Midas touch. Everything it touches goes bad- housing, interest rates, strikes, inflation, prices. Who knows when we will get out of this place to our electorates? Who knows when people will be able to travel to see their friends and relatives? We sit around to see what will happen. That is the Government's mad 
Midas touch. The Government must use commonsense. 
We are living in a world of charade in this Joint Sitting. The fact of the matter is that if these Bills are passed, as the march of numbers means they will be, it is certain that every man sitting on the Government side of the chamber who votes for them will rue the day, because it is an absolute certainty that each generation will pass on its achievements or its failures. If this health scheme goes through, this generation will be passing on a vast failure and those who vote for it will regret it. Are we to follow the British example? Britain has inflation, strikes, nationalised health, and its health scheme is falling about its ears. It has revolt by the consultants. I understand that in Australian terms a consultant is a specialist. Its unions are saying that they cannot have private hospitals. 
The honourable member for Perth and the Minister for Social Security said that the Government scheme is not so bad because if one does not like it one can insure oneself for treatment in a private hospital. In England people tried to do this and the unions are closing down the private hospitals. Will the Minister give us an assurance that the unions will not close down private hospitals in Australia? In fact, if the Government is to get the number of beds it requires for standard health care it will have to pinch them from the private hospitals to start with. The doctors will not accept the scheme in Australia and the private hospitals, the charitable, religious, community and rural hospitals, will not have a bar of it. 
Are we to follow that British example? The British people are great. They should all be out here in Australia so that Australia could have the benefit of the experience they have lived through. Do not forget that a tremendous number of Britons have left Britain, not excluding a tremendous number of doctors who have left Britain because they could not stand the health system there. If we had not had those British doctors who have come to Australia we would not be able to deliver the health care we are delivering today. Britain is short of 24,000 hospital doctors and 60 per cent of the junior doctors in the hospitals and the junior doctors in these socialised practices are not British at all; they have come from overseas. Those who have been to Britain know that if it were not for those overseas doctors the entire scheme would totally collapse. 
Are we to face a situation where our doctors migrate? We have to get over this myth of free health care. It is not free at all; it will be paid for massively. There must be user restraint. We cannot have a situation where people just go to the doctor and fill up the surgery unnecessarily. There has to be a restraint. The patient has to make a contribution so that there will not be over-usage and so that the people who are sick can get to the doctor. We do not want to see overusage of hospital beds. Where a person is left in bed there is no reason to put him or her out under the Government's scheme and the people awaiting elective surgery will not be able to get into hospital for it because of the over-usage of hospital beds. We want hospitals that are efficient units and not for them to have taken away the example of the present health scheme, so that there will be a proper turnover and efficiency in the hospitals. 
The levy we heard about to fund the scheme was 1.25 per cent of income; then it became 1.35 per cent, and that figure is losing more and more reality because it will pay for a smaller and smaller fraction of the total cost of the scheme. The honourable member for Perth,  Mr Berinson,  said: 'For goodness sake, stop talking about it now. Stop debating it' One can understand why he should want that when I pointed out the difference between the statement of the Prime Minister in 1967 that the scheme would be provided within the present limits of cost and that a fortnight ago when he said that it will cost 12 per cent of gross domestic product. 
The last time this matter was debated in this chamber was in December last year. I said then that the people of Australia should beware because I believe the cost of this scheme could reach 14 per cent of gross national expenditure. 
Within 2 weeks of today the Prime Minister had already admitted that it would cost 12 per cent. He may accuse me of overstating by 2 per cent. All right. He has come up from 5 per cent to 12 per cent. He has 2 per cent yet to go to make my forecast correct. But when the matter was last debated in December last I said that 14 per cent of gross national expenditure will be the cost of the scheme. Let me quote from last December's Hansard- 7 months ago. When talking about the Opposition's proposed scheme- the policy I had put forward in a positive sense, the Prime Minister said: 
In contrast, our program will be cheaper for the vast majority of Australians. 
How could a man say that and believe it- one would expect a Prime Minister to believe what he is saying- and within 7 months escalate his estimate from being cheaper than the present scheme to  2Vi  times the cost of the present scheme? To put the position in perspective, we claim that to fund the scheme would take all present Commonwealth spending on defence and education. Even if this amount of money were spent on the health scheme, we still would not have arrived at its cost. Is it any wonder that we believe not only that the scheme is bad but also that it is horrid? Not only is it bad in today's terms, but also it will bedevil the future. It will reduce the standard of living of Australians for generations to come. We oppose it. 

 - Mr Speaker - 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  put: 
That the business of the day be called on. 
I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the Leader of the Opposition moving that this House, having been assembled, do not adjourn until a full debate on the economy, industrial relations and unemployment is concluded. 
This House has been assembled for 2 purposes, the first relating to the Trade Practices Bill and the other to the Roads Grants Bill and the National Roads Bill. Both the Roads Bills can be taken as one matter and the Trade Practices Bill is another matter. The likelihood is that the whole proceedings on those matters can be dealt within a very short period of time. The Government chose to call this Parliament together - 
-As I am reminded by my colleague the honourable member for Gippsland, it was at great expense. Let us not overlook that there is great expense in calling the Parliament together. But the fact is that today, 23 August, the Parliament is assembled in the form of the House of Representatives and while this House is assembled, with all its members here, if there is no discussion of the major matter occupying the attention of every man, woman and teenager in Australia, it will be an abandonment and an abdication of the true role of the House of Representatives. There must be a debate on these major issues. The Government should not think that it can assemble the House and then use the march of numbers to prevent question time- an action more lacking in courage we have never seen in this House-or that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  who has remained silent and refused to give any leadership because he does not know how to, can ask that all questions be put on the notice paper to try to save embarrassment. There has not been an occasion in the memory of this House when, the House having been assembled in the morning of the first day of an ordinary sitting, there has not been a question time. It has not happened before. That the Prime Minister should take action not to allow question time merely shows that he is determined that there will be no discussion of economic matters by the Parliament. 
So that those who take an interest in the affairs of the Parliament may know what is happening, let me say that under the Standing Orders there is provision for a matter of public importance to be raised. The way in which a matter of public importance is raised is for the person wishing to raise it to write to the  Speaker.  Under the Standing Orders there is provision, after the  Speaker  reports to the House that a matter of public importance has been raised, for the matter then to be debated for up to 2 hours. On every occasion on which this House sits there is the opportunity for a matter of public importance to be raised. The reason for that provision in the Standing Orders is that the people who put together the Standing Orders and the people who have lived in this Parliament over the years have always recognised that if this Parliament is to represent the people the matters that are concerning the people should be debated. The matters that are concerning the people today are unemployment, industrial disputes and strikes and the lack of confidence in the community, and those were the very things which were contained in my letter to the  Speaker  raising a matter of public importance. 
The Parliament having been assembled, one would have expected that the matter of public importance would have been debated. One would have expected that the Government would have said: 'Yes, we will answer. We will say what we think about those things'. Instead of that, members of the Government Party take a coward's retreat and use their numbers to prevent the discussion of the matter of public importance. The Leader of the House  (Mr Daly),  who is sitting at the table, probably intends to threaten us once again by saying that if we have the temerity to move for the suspension of Standing Orders in order to debate these great national issues, these things that threaten the living standard of the Australian people, he will by the march of his numbers take action against us. If the Opposition in the Senate, where the numbers are different, then says: 'There will be debate in the national Parliament, in one of the Houses', members of the Government Party and a number of misunderstanding commentators and members of the media will say that we are obstructing. We are not obstructing. We are determined that these matters will be ventilated. If we did not do that we would be abandoning our responsibility to the Australian people, and we will not abandon our responsibility to the Australian people. We are determined that these matters should be debated. 
What are the facts that we find? The Treasurer of this country  (Mr Crean)  is a broken man. He is as broken as the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard).  'It is impossible ', says a member of the Labor Party. 
-One reason why we should have a debate on this matter is that the Treasurer is a broken man. We have not heard anything from him as to economic direction. All we have heard is that the Treasury is to be the scapegoat for the dereliction and failure of the Labor Party in Government. Meanwhile, the Treasurer says not a single word in order to state his views or to defend the Treasury. The Treasury may have its faults, but it is not to blame for what has happened. What an extraordinary performance we have had from the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns).  He is the only person in the Government who is speaking on matters economic. But this is his track form: A month ago he was saying that we would face 350,000 unemployed. He was disbelieved then. A week ago he said that there was no need to trade off unemployment in order to contain inflation. He was applauded for that. A week later he says that there will be 150,000 to 200,000 unemployed and that the system is to blame. The system in Australia is the democratic process, the Parliamentary process, and if that is to blame we need a debate about it here. The system is the institutions in this country and the major institution in Australia is the democratically elected Parliament. 
If the democratically elected Parliament comes together it should not be deprived of the opportunity of exposing what has happened and what has not happened. When the Parliament comes together it should be allowed to expose the lack of confidence in the community resulting from the conflicting statements which Ministers make. We have had statements made by the  Deputy  Prime Minister which conflict with other statements he has made at other times. We have had the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  and the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  making statements in total disagreement. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  declines to say anything at all. He is unwilling to submit himself to questioning by this Parliament, by the media or by his own side. Honourable members opposite could also have asked questions at question time. The Prime Minister has said that what he will do is to take refuge in a television studio and there, in the silence of the studio, surrounded only by his own people he will have the capacity to say something, edit it, do it again and rehearse it so that out will come something which he reckons will represent his views. Is that the way in which this country is to be run? How can people have confidence in that, when we are not being given the opportunity in this place to question and to probe? There has been a total abdication - 
I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the immediate debate of the notice of motion given by the Leader of the Opposition on 23 August. 
I move this motion because it is quite clear that the Government has taken a conscious decision that it will, in no circumstances, allow the major issues of the day to be debated in this Parliament. The Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  chided me for not moving a motion of censure of the Government. What he did not know was that it was my intention progressively to expose the decision of the Government not to allow debate and that when we reached the stage which we now have reached I would move that the Government be censured for its cowardice in being unwilling to debate matters and for its gross dereliction of duty by not allowing the issues which concern the public to come up for debate. This combination of cowardice in the face of fire and the Government's dereliction of duty in not taking action to protect the Australian people is the reason why the Government should be censured. That was the next step in the procedure. 
Let me just recount what the procedures have been today. We assembled here at 10.30 a.m. According to Standing Orders the first item on the agenda should have been questions without notice.  Mr Speaker,  you called for questions without notice but, before a single question could be put, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in accordance with what he can do under Standing Orders- what he would normally do threequarters of an hour after the House sits- asked that all questions be put on the notice paper. I ask the Whips, please, to have their conversation behind the Chair. 
Under the Standing Orders, the way in which the business of the House proceeds after questions is for the Prime Minister to ask- not to move- that further questions be put on the notice paper. By convention that is done three-quarters of an hour after the House assembles. Today, before a single question was asked, the Prime Minister took that escape. It was a cowardly act. He wants to avoid answering questions about the differences of opinion between Ministers in his Cabinet. He wants to avoid trying to reconcile their differences. Most importantly, the Prime Minister wants to avoid being put in a position where his answers can be taken to be putting him either on the side of the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  or on the side of the  Deputy  Prime Minister, the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns).  He wishes to avoid being seen to be holding the view which he does hold, if in fact he does hold a view. Nobody knows whether the Prime Minister has a view. For reasons that are apparent, I decided that the best course of action was to take advantage of the Standing Orders which provide that a matter of public importance can be called on for debate. The intention to raise a matter of public importance is notified by letter to you,  Mr Speaker,  and under the Standing Orders the debate on the matter can proceed for 2 hours. The practice of this House, since I was Leader of the House and made the arrangement with the then Opposition, has been that in each sitting week 2 hours will be allowed for the discussion of matters of public importance. That arrangement has subsisted since I was Leader of the House some years ago and has worked very well. There was a reasonable expectation therefore, having regard to the Standing Orders, that today we would have a 2-hour debate on the matter of public importance which I raised and which asked the Parliament to discuss the vacuum in leadership, unemployment and the lack of confidence in the community. 
Despite the normal practice that has existed in this Parliament over a period of time, the Leader of the House immediately stood up and moved that Government business be called on, and therefore stifled any consideration whatever of the matter of public importance which I raised. Of course, the Opposition voted against that proposal. But the march of numbers defeated us. The Opposition has been denied question time. It has been denied the opportunity to debate the lack of confidence in the community and unemployment which ranges in estimates by the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  and the  Deputy  Prime Minister from 150,000 to 200,000 people. People will be out of work; there will be social dislocation; and personal harm will be suffered by those unemployed people and their families. But we are not allowed to debate this matter or to ask the Government what it proposes to do to prevent this from happening. Are we to be asked to join those lemmings and walk over the cliff? Are the 150,000 to 200,000 people just to be abandoned? The Prime Minister, who is now in the House, is putting suggestions to the Leader of the House. Why does he not stand up like a man and state in debate - 
. . . what his views are, instead of having his dummy record them? 
In some ways I will do what has been done by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  and the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren),  and that is to go beyond the specific clause that we have in front of us. I think that it is necessary to do so in order to put the matter in its total perspective. What needs to be understood by this Committee and by the persons outside this chamber who are concerned about expenditure on roads in Australia is the tremendous job that has been done by the Opposition in this chamber and by the Opposition in the Senate because if this Bill had gone through as it was presented to this chamber- and by the march of numbers the Government was determined that the Bill would go through in that form- quite clearly it would have been a bad Bill. The reason it is not a bad Bill, although it is not the best Bill, is because of the action that was taken by the Opposition in the Senate. 
I am sick and tired of hearing tales about the Opposition in the Senate being obstructive. The fact is that the Opposition in the Senate is constructive. There has not been a single occasion on which a Bill that has been amended by the action of the Opposition in this House or by the action of the Opposition in the Senate has not become a better Bill. When the Trade Practices Bill was introduced into this chamber in the last session before the last Federal election, the Government said that the Bill had to be passed immediately. We were not prepared to be intimidated. When the Government reintroduced the Trade Practices Bill after the last Federal election it brought in the Bill with 109 amendments to it. As a result of the efforts of my colleague the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  and the Opposition in the Senate, a further 24 amendments were made to the Bill. So more than 130 amendments were made to the Trade Practices 
Bill, and it is a much better Bill than it was when it was first introduced into the Parliament. We were always in favour of stronger trade practices legislation, but without our efforts the Trade Practices Bill would have been a bad Bill. I have had enough of this obstruction talk. 
Now I come to the Roads Grants  Bill.  There are 2 Bills dealing with roads. I remind honourable members that the Minister for Transport, when referring to the Roads Grants Bill, said: 'If you do not pass it as it is, there will be no money at all'. We were supposed to be intimidated by that statement. We were not intimidated because we were determined to make it a better Bill. Now there is the prospect that this Bill will pass this chamber and then the Senate as a much better piece of legislation than it was when it was presented to the Parliament. The first point that needs to be made is that under the terms of the legislation as it was originally introduced, there was a belief by the Labor Government that all wisdom centred here in Canberra, and the Minister or his delegate was given certain powers.  His  'delegate' meant a public servant. Honourable members opposite do not have so much confidence in their public servants when they talk about the Treasury; in fact, they are making the Treasury the whipping boy for everything that they do wrong. Yet under this legislation as originally presented an unidentified person- a public servant- was going to have the right to supervise and audit the policy decisions of State governments and local governments. 
-Listen, Ted, you have had a bad run since you have been here; I suggest that you be quiet. 
If you do not keep quiet I will tell you the way in which the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock)  has described you. 
THE  CHAIRMAN (Mr Scholes)-Order!  I suggest that honourable members should debate the clauses of the Bill that are before us, and that if they wish to engage in other forms of conversation they do so outside the chamber. 
I would be terrified of his language. We were determined that we would remove the capacity of a public servant in Canberra to supervise the policy decisions of State governments and local governments. We have succeeded in that. We were also determined to expunge from the record all reference to the 
Minister for DURD- the Department of Urban and Regional Development. We have heard him intrude in this debate and have learned what extraordinary views he has got about the road transport system in Australia and especially in the urban areas. Thank goodness that although he could come into the debate he cannot stand over poor Charlie Jones and make Charlie Jones do things that Charlie does not want to do. Charlie Jones has got enough pressure on him from  Mr Virgo  of South Australia. We already know how many times 'expletive deleted' occurred in the conservation between  Mr Virgo  and Charlie. Actually what Charlie said to Al Grassby in Cabinet is rather like the language he used to  Mr Virgo  during the telephone conversation that he had about this very matter. Liberal governments or Liberal-Country Party coalition governments, unlike Labor governments, are willing to stand up, be counted by their electors, take their decisions and answer for them. They do not believe that a public servant with a nice view overlooking Lake Burley Griffin knows how to control roads in Sydney, Parramatta, Carlton, Melbourne or anywhere else. We were determined to achieve that. We have achieved it. 
I want to pay public tribute not only to the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  and his committee but also to every senator on the Opposition side who was prepared to take the criticism that was spread far and wide that they were being obstructive. I hope that the media, which said that they were obstructive, will now pay tribute to the Opposition senators for achieving a better Bill. It has been acknowledged not only by the Minister for Transport but also by other members of the Cabinet that it is a better Bill. The only person who has a different view is the Minister for Urban and Regional Development who has been left out.  His  own colleagues wiped him out. Poor old Tom, he has got no say in the matter, and I think that is of great advantage to the people of Australia. 
What we were determined to do was to take out this supervisory capacity which the public servant would have had. We know that the Minister for Transport would be too busy solving the problems of Tasmania to be concerned about roads through Carlton, Glebe, Leichhardt or wherever it might be. The Minister would have left it to the public servants. The Opposition was determined to take that provision out of the Bill. There are 4 categories of roads- the rural local, the rural arterial, the urban local and the urban arterial. The Government's sticking point is on urban arterial roads. It has abandoned its claim in the other 3 areas and I am glad about that. But the Government is still left with urban arterial roads. In relation to urban arterial roads it is perfectly clear that before the Government can do anything in that field or before it can obstruct things being done it has to have the approval of the State governments. In order to do something the Government has to have the agreement of the State governments. In that sense, it is a proper resolution of the problem. There will have to be a co-operative effort between the Commonwealth Government and State governments which is something for which we have always argued and which we have now achieved. 
If the Federal Government thinks that it can ride roughshod over the States it has another think coming. The States will not let it do so. 
We of the Opposition are committed to a federal system in Australia and believe there is a role for the States. We will stand with the State governments on this matter. On every occasion when legislation comes before this House, in our policy committees, in our joint shadow ministry and in our joint party room we examine each piece of legislation and ask: 'Is the principle offensive?'. If the principle is offensive we ask the second question: 'Is it reversible when we get into government?'. Those are the criteria on which we operate. We have so operated consistently and will continue to do so. In this case the principle of the Commonwealth still having a supervisory role over the States in relation to arterial roads in urban areas - 
We will reverse the position when we come into office. The principle is bad. It is reversible. When we come into office we will reverse it. In the meantime the States have their power. If they choose not to co-operate with the Federal Government because the Federal Government is making errors the program will be at a standstill. There will have to be a reconciliation. That is what we want. We believe that State governments and local authorities are in a far better position to decide whether a freeway should go through a certain area and what should be the nature of the freeway. There has been a lot of emotional talk about freeways, such as that coming from the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones),  who talks about Los Angeles. Everybody knows that in Los Angeles the authorities went far too far. We can see what happened there and we can decide it will not happen in Australian capital cities. But to assume that the State governments will ipso facto make the same bad mistakes as were made there is nonsense. The fact is that the people who serve in State governments know exactly the feeling of the local community. They know also the need for transport in the local community. They can come to a proper reconciliation. That is the way it should be. 
I make it clear that we do not accept as correct the statement by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  that freeways have destroyed Carlton. That is nonsense. I happen to know Carlton very well. I often have lunch there with my friends in the Italian and Greek communities. They are fine people who enjoy living in Carlton. Carlton is a suburb which is blossoming and blooming. We want it to do that. That is part of our policy and we will achieve it. But when the Minister suggests that the area is being destroyed by freeways he is only illustrating that he has never been there and has received wrong advice about it. We have to realise that there are a lot of people who need to get to their place of work, visit their friends, have social intercourse or whatever it is, who need traffic ways which will get them from point A to point B in a minimum of time in safety. That is our purpose. We do not want freeways to mar the landscape or the cityscape. We accept that progress must come, but there is no reason why progress must be ugly and must obstruct the natural advantage and development of Australian people. A reconciliation can come. If the Commonwealth provides money, fine. It needs to have a say in it, but it cannot have a veto power that enables it to say that the States are wrong and the Commonwealth will not let the States do what they want to do. 
This Bill is a much better Bill than it was when originally introduced. I pay tribute to the Minister for Transport for not being as obstinate as originally he sounded as though he would be. I also pay a tribute in advance for what I expect will be his course of action in relation to negotiations between the Commonwealth Government and the States. Now that we have taken out of the Bill the provision about his delegate, the public servant, it is now his personal responsibility to reach reconciliation with the State governments. If he fails it will be his fault If there is no upgrading of urban transport it will be his fault, not the fault of the States. He has personal responsibility for it. Knowing the extreme responsibility that he has, I thank him in advance for the kindness that he will show in recognising that people in urban areas want rapid, safe transport. If he makes a mess of it the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  and I will be on his wheel along with all States. We hope he will be able to approach his responsibility in a far more diplomatic way than he has approached so many of the industrial problems with which he has had to deal. 
-The honourable gentleman has asked me whether I disagree with his actions. The answer is yes, I do disagree because he shows himself to be a man convinced of his own lightness above all things. It was a strange departure for him in relation to this legislation. I congratulate him for it He will be a far better Minister if he continues to take this attitude in the future. 
I move: 
That progress be reported. 
The ayes have it. 
I emphasise the words, 'shall leave the Chair' -  on an order to report progress. 
Yes. 
Question put: 
That progress be reported. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) Can he say how many superannuation funds in private industry or superannuation funds of State Governments contain separate provisions for superannuation entitlements of persons considered to be of lower medical standard. 
If so, to what extent (a) is provision made by way of a separate superannuation fund and (b) are such people incorporated in a single fund as in the proposed scheme for Australian public servants. 
For those schemes where this method is adopted, what time limit is placed on this category of person before they become entitled to normal superannuation eligibility. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Can he say the extent to which superannuation schemes in private enterprise provide for the person to claim a lump sum on retirement. 
For those funds for which such a lump sum is available, can he say whether acceptance of it reduces the pension that would otherwise be payable or is the lump sum a refund of a contributor's payments. 
asked the Minister for Services and Property, upon notice: 
1 ) How many Government properties in nonmetropolitan areas are serviced by bush fire brigades. 
) Where are the properties located. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) Is there an understanding with the British and United States Governments that their Forces will be able to use the naval facilities to be established at Cockburn Sound. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
What will be the total estimated annual cost to the Government as a result of the arrangements for the manning and administration of the North West Cape Communications Station following his negotiations in Washington, as announced on 10 January 1974. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) Did he state on 7 March 1 974 that no plan to establish an Army base in Western Australia is being considered by the Government. 
Did he also say recently in Western Australia that such a plan is in fact under consideration. 
What proposals are at present under consideration for Defence establishments or facilities in Western Australia. 
What stage has (a) consideration (b) planning or (c) establishment reached in each case. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Immigration Planning Council recommended that the migrant intake be increased to 135,000. 
If so, has the Government agreed to this proposal; if not, why was the proposal rejected. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
Did his predecessor state on 30 March 1974 that the Labor Government had inherited 18,000 illegal immigrants from the previous government. 
If so, how many of these were located in each State. 
What are the equivalent figures for each State now. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) Will he provide a list of all grants, to any organisation or individual, that are provided from moneys appropriated to his Department, or authorities under his control, to undertake research. 
) To what bodies have such moneys been advanced, and what was or is the nature of the research being undertaken as a result of the grants in each of the last 3 years. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) How many women have been appointed to senior positions in his Department since 2 December, 1972. 
Who are they. 
3 ) To what position has each been appointed, and what is the function of the position. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) How many women have been appointed to senior positions in his Department since 2 December 1 972. 
Who are they. 
To what position has each been appointed, and what is the function of the position. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) How many women have been appointed to senior positions in his Department since 2 December 1 972. 
Who are they. 
To what position has each been appointed, and what is the function of the position. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Did he state in a speech to the New South Wales Branch of the Economic Society of Australia and New Zealand on 6 February 1974 that the rationale for the introduction of the Financial Corporations Bill and the related policy stance were well-documented in the major theoretical works and the empirical studies which the rapid growth of non-bank financial institutions produced in the 1950s and 1960s. 
If so, to which works and studies was he referring. 
Which of those works or studies specifically recommend the extension of direct controls to non-bank financial intermediaries. 
asked the Minister for Services and Property, upon notice: 
Does the Government intend to pursue a target of 75 per cent ownership of Government office accommodation within 10 years. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Government completed its examination of the possibility of releasing land under the control of the Australian Army on Rottnest Island. 
2 ) If so, what is the outcome. 
If not, when is it expected that the examination will be completed. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
1 ) What proportion of migrants arriving in Australia settled in non-urban areas in each of the last 10 years. 
In what non-urban areas have they settled and in what numbers. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Has his Department undertaken a study of fuel consumption in Australia. 
If so, has the study been completed. 
If the study has been completed, will a report be published and will he be recommending that smaller cars be used by the Australian Government 
asked the Minister for the Environment and Conservation, upon notice: 
Does his Department maintain a record of interdepartmental committees in which it participates. 
If not, then how is he aware of all the interdepartmental consultations in which his Department is involved through inter-departmental committees. 
Will he ensure that such a list is in future available to him. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) How many hours were lost due to sick leave by officers or employees of the Australian Public Service in each of the last 10 years. 
What was the average number of hours lost per officer or employee due to absence from work on sick leave in each of those years. 
What were the major kinds of illness which necessitated sick leave being taken. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What initiatives are currently being undertaken by the Public Service to increase the number of Aborigines employed in the Public Service. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the Public Service Board instigate an examination of the part-time employee in 1 972. 
If so, what was the purpose of the examination. 
How many officers were involved in the examination, and what was the outcome. 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
1 ) How many officers in his Department have been given some form of formal training in financial or auditing procedures used in Commonwealth Departments in the last 12 months. 
What is the division and classification of these officers. 
How many of these officers were in operational, as distinct from financial or accounting, positions in the Service. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) How many officers in his Department have been given some form of formal training in financial or auditing procedures used in Commonwealth departments in the last 12 months. 
) What is the division and classification of these officers. 
) How many of these officers were in operational, as distinct from financial or accounting, positions in the service. 
asked the Minister for Services and Property, upon notice: 
How many requests have been received by departments from officers seeking parking facilities near the office in which they work in the last 1 2 months. 
How many of these requests have been accommodated. 
How many officers of his Department are involved in the review of parking provisions for disabled employees and officers of the Public Service. 
When was the review commenced, and when will it be completed. 
) Will it lead to a report being submitted to him. 
Will copies of the report be made available. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Does he intend to re-site the 300-acre rifle range on the foreshores at Williamstown. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
How many Australian citizens have been refused a passport or other travel documents to enable them to travel outside Australia since 2 December 1972. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
1 ) How many people have been deported from Australia since 2 December 1972. 
From what countries did these deportees come, and how many were deported in the case of each country. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) How many officers in his Department have been given some form of formal training in financial or auditing procedures used in Commonwealth departments in the last 12 months. 
2 ) What is the division and classification of these officers. 
How many of these officers were in operational, as distinct from financial or accounting, positions in the service. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Has he received representations from Speld, the Specific Learning Difficulties Association of New South Wales, requesting that symbols instead of words be introduced on traffic signs. 
Will he instigate a research study of the difficulties experienced by groups in the community with learning disabilities of various kinds in using present traffic signs. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
How many positions are provided in the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads relating to environmental studies. 
) What is the function of each position. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Department completed its investigation of the formulation of a suitable fuel consumption standard. 
If so, has a report been submitted to him. 
Will the report be made available. 
If the investigations have not been completed, when is completion expected. 
5 ) What areas are covered by the investigation. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
How many officers in his Department have been given some form of formal training in financial or auditing procedures used in Commonwealth departments in the last 12 months. 
) What is the division and classification of these officers. 
How many of these officers were in operational, as distinct from financial or accounting, positions in the Service. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What are the established criteria by which grants are awarded in all fields of artistic endeavour. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Does he recall my representations to him on behalf of Miss Kathleen Birmingham, a noted journalist, and the first woman reporter on the Sydney Morning Herald, who many considered worthy of receiving recognition of her work. 
Does he also recall his reply to me on 19 December 1973 by letter indicating that the Council for the Arts was examining the general question of recognising the services to the community provided by the people in the arts generally. 
Has his attention been drawn to the fact that Miss Birmingham died recently. 
Can he indicate when the Council's deliberation will be completed so that the services of other Australians do not go unrecognised. 
When will the promised system of Australian honours appear. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Does the Government intend to introduce words that can be used in conjunction with 'Advance Australia Fair'. 
) If so, when and how will the words be chosen. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Is it the intention of the Government to extend health insurance benefits to home nursing visits. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) Have pilot welfare rights projects been introduced. 
If so, what is the purpose of each project, and where have they been introduced. 
If not, when will each project be introduced. 
) What is a welfare rights officer. 
How many are undergoing training in his Department 
6) What salary is payable to them during training 
What is the nature of the training they are given. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to criticism that has been directed towards the Government because of its treatment of State decentralisation subsidies as normal operating income of companies and thereby liable to tax. 
What is his attitude to the criticism that this hampers the decentralisation promotion efforts of State Governments. 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
1 ) For what purpose has the Department used management consultant firms in the last 1 2 months. 
Which firms have been used. 
What was the total cost. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
What apprenticeship courses are provided in each State. 
How many entered these apprenticeships in each of the last 5 years. 
3 ) What proportion of apprentices in each category were women. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
With reference to the answer to question No. 1566 (Hansard, 13 December 1973, page 4816) in which he indicated that 53 positions are currently provided in his Department specifically for productivity action, what is the classification and function of each position. 
How many of the additional positions provided since 1972 have been newly created. 
How many of the extra positions were already established but have had extra responsibilities allocated to them so that the functions of the position now include productivity action. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
1 ) Can he provide details of the level of occupational diseases contracted by employees in Australian Industry in each of the last 5 years, in particular, the level of the incidence of (a) silicosis, (b) asbestosis, and (c) other lung diseases related to industrial causes. 
What industrial measures have been or are being implemented to prevent or counteract such incidences in industry. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
How many officers in his Department have been given some form of formal training in financial or auditing procedures used in Commonwealth departments in the last 12 months. 
2 ) What is the division and classification of these officers. 
How many of these officers were in operational, as distinct from financial or accounting, positions in the Service. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
How many officers in his Department have been given some form of formal training in financial or auditing procedures used in Commonwealth departments in the last 12 months. 
) What is the division and classification of these officers. 
How many of these officers were in operational, as distinct from financial or accounting, positions in the Service. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
When was the Women's Bureau in his Department established, and what was its initial staffing establishment. 
) What was its establishment as at 2 December 1 972. 
What is its present staffing establishment, and what are the functions of each position. 
How many of the officers currently employed in the Bureau are women. 
Who are they. 
6 ) In what positions are they employed. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
1 ) How many officers in the Department of Immigration had been given some form of formal training in financial or auditing procedures used in Commonwealth departments in the last 12 months. 
What was the division and classification of these officers. 
How many of these officers were in operational, as distinct from financial or accounting, positions in the Service. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
1 ) Has a research unit been established within his Department to forecast future trends; if so, who are the members of it. 
Is it a function of the unit to make forecasts up to 18 months ahead. 
Have any forecasts been prepared yet; if so, will they be made public. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
When will the Government establish the promised inquiry into all aspects of industrial relations in Australia. 
asked the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice: 
1 ) Does he support the claims by ex-servicewomen's associations for amendment to the Defence Service Homes Act to cover service within Australia during the Second World War. 
Has his attention been drawn, for example, to the anomaly that the Government has created whereby regular servicemen and servicewomen who have completed three years effective full-time service on or after 7 December 1972 are eligible for a loan no matter where they served. 
Will he give an assurance that the Act will be amended to meet the ex-servicewomen's request. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
When will the Government ratify the ILO Convention on occupational cancer. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
For what purpose has the Attorney-General's Department used management consultant firms in the last 12 months. 
Which firms have been used. 
) What was the total cost. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) For what purpose has the Department of Foreign Affairs used Management Consultant firms in the last 12 months. 
Which firms have been used. 
What was the total cost. 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice : 
1 ) What are the estimated reserves of limestone within Australia. 
Where are the deposits. 
What is the present annual production of limestone. 
What are our exports of limestone. 
What proportion of the limestone deposits in Australia are situated in national parks. 
Where are these deposits in these national parks. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
1 ) How many women have been appointed to senior positions in the Department of Agriculture since 2 December 1972. 
Who are they. 
To what positions has each been appointed, and what is the function of the position. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) What employment has been provided or what transfers have been arranged for those people remaining in the Department of External Territories after Papua New Guinea attained self-government on 1 December 1973. 
To what other departments did people transfer after that date and how many were involved in respect of each department. 
Have any arrangements been made in the Department of Foreign Affairs to utilise the services of people remaining in the Department of External Territories on 1 December 1973. 
If so, (a) what are these arrangements, and (b) how many people are involved. 
How many of these people will be involved in the proposed Aid Agency and when will the Aid Agency be formally established. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What is the current staff level of the Prices Justification Tribunal. 
2 ) What is the annual wage and salary bill. 
What is the weekly number of applications and notifications made to the Tribunal. 
Does the Tribunal have a target staff level; if so, what is that level, and what will be the annual wage and salary bill when the Tribunal reaches that target. 
How short of the target staff level is the Tribunal at present. 
What are the positions which are at present vacant in the Tribunal. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Will he provide a list indicating all fees that are charged by his Department for services rendered to the public whether to individuals or organisations. 
Br Everingham- The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information which has been collated for the right honourable member is too lengthy and complex to be published in Hansard. Copies are available at the Table Office of the House of Representatives. 
Public Service: Transfer of Officers to Albury/Wodonga (Question No. 328) 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Government received recommendations from the Public Service Board relating to the transfer of public servants and departments to Albury/Wodonga. 
If so, when was the report received, and what action has been taken by the Government on the recommendations in it. 
If not, when is it expected that the report will be received by the Government 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
1 ) What are the present restrictions on limestone mining. 
What is the commercial demand at this time for limestone. 
asked the Minster representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
In what ways has re-afforestation been accelerated since 2 December 1972. 
What projects have been undertaken, where, by whom, and what was the cost. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
How many officers in the Department of Agriculture have been given some form of formal training in financial or auditing procedures used in Commonwealth departments in the last 12 months. 
What is the division and classification of these officers. 
How many of these officers were in operational, as distinct from financial or accounting, positions m the Service. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
Does the Government intend to provide long-term loans to Australian fishermen for boats, equipment and gear; if so, when. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration upon notice: 
1 ) How many applications for permanent residence in Australia were received from (a) Fiji, (b) Tonga, (c) Western Samoa and (d) Nauru during 1973. 
How many of these applications were approved in each case. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has he received representations from the Victorian Minister for Health seeking additional Federal funds to build more accommodation for mental patients and, in particular, asking the Government to reconsider its policy of not providing in-patient accommodation for mental patients. 
If so, has he considered these representations, and what was the outcome. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Does he support the view that there should be a national register of drug addicts. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Does he support the recommendation by the Joint Council of the Australian Public Service for changes to the disciplinary provisions of the Public Service Act to prevent unnecessary restriction being placed  on  the private lives of public servants. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Does the Government accept the need for financial assistance for the establishment of intake centres for alcoholics or people affected by alcoholism; if so, when will it provide such assistance. 
asked the Minister for the Environment and Conservation, upon notice: 
1 ) When has the Council of Nature Conservation Ministers met. 
Who has attended the meetings. 
What matters have been discussed. 
What resolutions have been made. 
asked the Minister for the 
Environment and Conservation, upon notice: 
1 ) What consideration has been given, as promised, to subsidising environmentally desirable processes and products. 
) What was the result of the consideration. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Has he received a report into allegations that Indonesian interrogators are being trained at the Woodside Army Intelligence Centre in South Australia. 
If so, will he table the report 

 Mr Barnard: The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Several reports on individual aspects of these allegations were submitted to me. In addition I made my own exhaustive oral enquiries. The result of my investigation was contained in my press statement of 24 June which made it clear that Indonesian personnel were not being trained as interrogators at Woodside. 
asked the Special Minister of State, upon notice: 
Has the Priorities Review Staff prepared a forward expenditure estimate of Government programs. 
) If so, what is the estimate. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Will he provide a list of the recommendations made to the Government as a result of the meetings held in Albury from 5 to 7 July 1 974 to discuss Aboriginal medical services. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Are grants made direct from the Government to local government under the Mental Health, Alcoholism and Drug Dependence Scheme. 
If so, under what conditions are these direct grants made. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the survey undertaken by the National Health and Medical Research Council into the smoking habits of Australian school children been completed; if so, when. 
When will the results of the survey be available. 
Are there any preliminary findings from the survey. 
asked the Minister for the Environment and Conservation, upon notice: 
How is the $25,000 allocated from the Australian Environment Fund to raise public awareness, survey environmental attitudes and improve public awareness techniques, being spent. 
asked the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, upon notice: 
Will provision be made available on the Indian-Pacific line Tor the carriage of vehicles; if so, when. 
asked the Minister for the Environment and Conservation, upon notice: 
1 ) For what purpose has the Department used management consultant firms in the last 12 months. 
) Which firms have been used. 
What was the total cost. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) How many people have tuberculosis in Australia at the present time. 
How many people have died from tuberculosis in Australia in each of the last 10 years. 
How many people have been found to have tuberculosis following screening conducted by the Government in each of the last 1 0 years. 
How many of these were migrants. 
How many of these people came from industrial areas. 
How many people have been found to be suffering from lung diseases following screening by the Government in each of the last 10 years. 
How many people have undergone tuberculosis screening in Australia in each of the last 1 0 years. 
asked the Minister for the Environment and Conservation, upon notice: 
1 ) Will he provide a list of all grants, to any organisation or individual, that are provided from moneys appropriated to his Department, or authorities under his control, to undertake research. 
) To what bodies have such moneys been advanced, and what was the nature of the research undertaken as a result of the grants in each of the last three years. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture upon notice: 
1 ) How many people are employed in forestry and timber industries in each State. 
Where are they employed. 
What was the total amount of timber, categorised by type, imported into Australia in each of the last 10 years. 
What is the expected amount of timber, categorised by type, that will be imported into Australia in each of the next 5 years. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What radioisotope diagnostic kits are available in Australia. 
What are their stated degree of accuracy and precision. 
Which radioisotope kits have been tested and their accuracy and precision verified by the Australian Radiation Laboratory. 
What are the (a) types, (b) numbers and (c) costs of radioisotopic kits reimbursed to the manufacturers during the years 1970-71, 1971-72 and 1972-73 by the Department of Health. 
) Are diagnostic kits for laboratory use to be considered as pharmaceutical items subject to Commonwealth reimbursement. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
1 ) Will he provide a list of all grants, to any organisation or individual, that are provided from moneys appropriated to his Department, or authorities under his control, to undertake research. 
To what bodies have such moneys been advanced, and what was or is the nature of the research being undertaken as a result of the grants in each of the last 3 years. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
1 ) What governments have made formal inquiries of the Government concerning special arrangements for their citizens (a) to work for periods of (i) 6 months or less and (ii) more than 6 months and (b) to migrate to Australia for specified employment since 2 December 1972. 
What stage have consultations on these inquiries reached in each case. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
What progress has been made in the development of a system of social indicators. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
When will the Government establish the promised National Advisory Council on the Needs of the Disabled. 
) Will he take action to avoid further delays in its establishment. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
What was the intended role of the Social Welfare Commission as at 2 December 1972. 
What changes have subsequently been made to its intended role. 
What is its present role. 
What is to be its future role. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) For what purpose has the Department used management consultant firms in the last 1 2 months. 
Which firms have been used. 
What was the total cost. 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
1 ) Will he provide a list of all grants, to any organisation or individual, that are provided from moneys appropriated to his Department, or authorities under his control, to undertake research. 
To what bodies have such -moneys been advanced, and what was or is the nature of the research being undertaken as a result of the grants in each of the last 3 years. 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the world 's largest nickel producer, Inco, decided to curtail its exploration and development activities in any part of Australia. 
What Australian nickel projects is Inco involved in. 
If Inco has decided to curtail its activities, will any of these projects be terminated as a result of Inco's decision; if so, which projects, and where are they located. 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
1 ) How many women have been appointed to senior positions in his Department since 2 December 1972. 
Who are they. 
To what position has each been appointed, and what is the function of the position. 
asked the Minister for Northern Development, upon notice: 
1 ) In relation to his statement in May 1 973 that a review will be made of existing zonal boundaries which are predominantly in Northern Australia, namely Zones A and B, has the review commenced; if not, why not. 
If the review has commenced, (a) what departments are undertaking it, (b) what are its terms of reference and (c) when is it likely that the review will be completed. 
Is it intended that the review should lead to the preparation of a report; if so, will the report be made public. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice:- 
Has he received representations from the Shire of Wangaratta expressing concern at a reduction in the amount of funds becoming available for local government roadworks particularly in view of the floods that have afflicted the area in 1 973 and again in May 1 974. 
If so, has he accepted the points put forward by the Shire. 
Has he replied to the Shire; if so, what was his response. 
All Australians regret the tragedy that has befallen the Governor-General,  Sir John  Kerr, and his family. Lady Kerr's death was a quite crippling blow to him, coining so soon after he had accepted Australia's highest office. He has reached the pinnacle of a distinguished public career and in such he should have had, we would have hoped, the support of Lady Kerr in the discharge of his duties. The fact that she will not be there with him brings an understanding on our part of the difficulties that he will have. 
Lady Ken's death was all the more tragic because Australia has lost a woman who had a fine personal quality and who gave dedicated community service over a long period. It is a loss that will be felt widely among many community organisations with which she worked, such as the Marriage Guidance Council of New South Wales. Lady Kerr was a trained social worker. She was committed to the need to provide counselling and support to married couples facing stress. She was an executive member of the Marriage Guidance Council. In addition, Lady Kerr was a volunteer counsellor with the Life Line organisation and served on its adoption committee. 
Lady Kerr continued to give this service to the community despite personal hardships that afflicted her.  Her  courage in overcoming those hardships was the finest example any person could have given of an individual's self determination to make a positive contribution, despite personal needs, to the service of the community and the nation.  Her  life exemplified a spirit of thought for others before herself. All Australians will recognise the difficulties  Sir John,  the Governor-General, must now inevitably face and the sorrow his loss must cause him. Australians will extend personal sympathy to him and his family. The task ahead of  Sir John  will not be easy but in facing it he can know that he has the full support and understanding of his fellow Australians. On behalf of all members of the Liberal Party I extend sympathy to  Sir John  and his family in the loss of a distinguished woman. 
Norman Kirk, who was Prime Minister of New Zealand, recently died; hence we have this motion today. It is appropriate that we should move a motion in an understanding of the true depth of the relationship between Australia and New Zealand. I can think of no other 2 countries whose interests are so identified and whose people are so similar. In fact there are many New Zealanders walking about Australian cities and Australians walking about .New Zealand cities who would never be identified as coming from one or other of the countries but who would be identified as coming from either of the countries. There is no capacity to distinguish from any of their characteristics or their way of speaking. Because of that closeness the death of Norman Kirk naturally had an impact on Australians. 
Norman Kirk, in a short period, had received a tremendous amount of notoriety for his achievements in New Zealand. He also, of course, became very closely identified with the South Pacific and with South East Asia. He was almost the same physical size as the largest of the South Pacific islanders. He had that strong build which I think made him able to communicate with the islanders as readily as they could with him. They recognised that he did not see a leadership role for New Zealand or for any other country in the South Pacific region; what he saw was a spirit of co-operation between all and that there was no single leader, whether it be a country or person- just a need for co-operation. 
He carried that spirit into South East Asia. In South East Asia he was very well respected. He was seen as a leader of a country which wanted to make whatever friendly contribution could be made in co-operation and in no sense intended to intrude New Zealand or its interests into those of the countries of South East Asia with which he was dealing. The same was true, I think, of his relationships with Australia. He recognised them for their intrinsic worth and for their inviolability, and he wanted to make his contribution. He did make a contribution. I hope the contribution he made in all these fields will be well remembered and will never in any way be detracted from. 
One particular matter in respect of which a great deal of publicity was given to the efforts of Norman Kirk related to nuclear testing in the Pacific by France. I think it is probably true to say that Norman Kirk was the first who brought this to international prominence, and certainly to prominence in New Zealand, Australia, the Pacific and South East Asia. In many ways he led the protest which was registered with France. I know he would be disappointed, were he still alive, to realise that there were nuclear tests so soon after his death. Fortunately it appears as though that program has now come to an end, and what a relief for the people in this region that it will end. Let us hope that it will never happen again. If it does not happen again, as it ought not to, a very great deal of credit for that must go to the late Norman Kirk. 
I met him but a few times. I found him easy to talk to. I found that he was interested not in making political points but in understanding what was in my mind about certain issues. He would express bis view to me quite clearly without any idea of scoring any political points. He was, I think, in every sense of the word, a fine man. He had a fine career. People at my age, or perhaps even older, realise just what a young age it is for a man to die. 
It was a personal tragedy for him and a tragedy to the people of New Zealand that not only did he die at a young age but also that he died so soon after coming to office. He was in the full flight of office, so to speak. For his Party leaders who were left, I regret that this should have happened. But, as these things must happen, another man has been elected to lead the Labour Party in New Zealand. Government must go on. I have met but once  Mr Rowling,  the successor to  Mr Kirk.  I wish him and his Party good fortune under his leadership. 
I wish to express the sympathy of the Liberal Party to the family of  Mr Kirk  in the loss of their kinsman who had reached such stature, of whom they must have been proud and with whom they hoped for a long association in the years to come. 
Is it the intention of the Prime Minister to go overseas shortly at the same time as the Deputy Prime Minister will be overseas? During what dates will the Minister for Minerals and Energy be the Acting Prime Minister of Australia? 
-My question is addressed to the Minister for Transport. I ask: Have the Minister for Defence,  Mr Barnard,  the honourable member for Wilmot,  Mr Duthie,  and the honourable member for Braddon,  Mr Davies,  been to see the Minister to explain to him the very serious downturn in the economic conditions in the State of Tasmania? Have those gentlemen explained to the Minister the very great reliance that the State of Tasmania places on shipping services from the State to the mainland and that the increases imposed by the Australian National Line on shipping freight rates is a further blow to the level of the economy in Tasmania? If they have done all those things, will he now reconsider the increases in the freight rates charged? If they have not done those things will he call upon each of them- the Minister for Defence and the honourable members for Wilmot and Braddon to make clear to him their personal experiences of the very bad situation that exists in Tasmama? Finally, will the honourable gentleman reconsider the answer that he has just given so that he can make it clear to the Tasmanian people that criticism of a State Labor Government in Tasmania is no excuse for the failure of a Commonwealth Labor Government to take the appropriate action in relation to freight rates to and from Tasmania' 
I move: 
That the Government be censured for its avoidance of the processes of debate in the House of Representatives when the country is alarmed about unemployment, industrial strikes, vacuum in leadership and properly expects that these issues be debated. 
The Government ought to be censured. The censure motion ought to be supported and will be supported by everybody on this side of the House. If there were any members on the other side of the House who had the slightest commitment to the parliamentary system, they also would censure the Government. Notice of my motion was given on Friday, 23 August. For reasons as yet unexplained- it was said that it was a brilliant stroke of strategy on the part of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in Cabinetwhen all about him were saying that he could not have his way on economic matters, he decided that he would like to try to have his way on some sort of minor piece of strategy. So he decided that he would call the Parliament together for one day. That one day sitting was for the purpose only of passing the Trade Practices Bill and the Roads Grants BUI. In the middle of the highest number of strikes on record since the Depression, in the middle of the highest inflation rate we have known for over 2 decades, in a vacuum of leadership and with the whole of the Australian people confused and uncertain and not knowing where we are going, the Prime Minister's contribution to that day's debate was 11 words. Those 1 1 words were:  'Mr Speaker,  I ask that questions today be placed on notice.' That was the contribution he made. I would be quite surprised if he said anything more in the Caucus or 
Cabinet meetings in the building up of this Budget that was brought down last night. In fact, he clearly abdicated from any sense of leadership in the economic affairs of the country. The poor Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  has been completely steamrollered. Only one man,  Dr Cairns,  with the support of his Caucus mates, bears the responsibility. 
The normal procedure is for a censure motion to be debated immediately. That is what we expected. It is now quite clear that the Government was prepared to accept this notice of motion as a censure motion in the terms of the standing order, as the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  has said. Can anybody possibly reconcile the attitude of the Leader of the House today when he says that he accepts the censure motion in the terms of the standing order when on 23 August, when notice of the motion was given, the Leader of the House refused to accept it and refused to allow it to be debated? Because he refused to allow it to be debated I moved: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the immediate debate of the notice of motion given by the Leader of the Opposition on 23 August. 
Every member of the Government voted against that motion We wanted to bring the matter on for debate there and then. Every member of the Government voted against the proposal. Now they come along today and say: 'Let us have the debate'. Earlier on that day, 23 August, the Prime Minister had, as I said, abandoned question time. It was a very unhealthy precedent for the Parliament to be assembled and the Government to protect itself by abandoning question time. He knew the significance of it; he knew it very well. I think he felt ashamed, as he ought to have, depriving the Opposition of question time. 
My colleague, the honourable member for Gippsland, says that the Prime Minister is incapable of feeling shame. It is just a question of judgment. The Prime Minister certainly ought to feel shame The only issue is whether he feels it. Any other man would be ashamed of himself. The abandonment of question time on that day was an act of selfprotection so that the Prime Minister could avoid answering questions. It was an avoidance of responsibility. Also he wanted to protect some of his Ministers from answering questions. It was an abdication of accountability of the Government to the Parliament. 
That same morning I raised a matter of public importance in accordance with the Standing 
Orders. I did it in a perfectly proper way. I wrote a letter to you,  Mr Speaker,  as is the appropriate method, and said that a matter of great public importance had arisen. Under the Standing Orders it should have been debated for 2 hours. The matter was: 
The alarming decline of confidence in the community arising out of the Government's inability to handle the deteriorating economic situation which has been created by its own policies, and contributed to by the conflicting statements of Ministers, the Prime Minister's abdication of leadership and the rapidly worsening employment situation. 
The Leader of the House moved in and proposed the motion that the business of the day be called on to stifle debate on the very issue which I had raised. First we had a matter of public importance and that was stifled. Then we had the notice of a motion of censure and a motion for the suspension of Standing Orders to enable the motion to be brought on and that was stifled. The aim was to stifle debate. This was the day on which the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  was having his row with the Australian Federation of Air Pilots. On that day the Australian Federation of Air Pilots said that it would not carry a Labor Minister by aeroplane in Australia and it certainly would not carry any Ministers out of Canberra. The Leader of the House then came over to our side and said: 'Look, if you fellows want to talk, if you want to have the temerity to use the Parliament as a debating mechanism, if you want to talk about national issues, do you not realise that you will keep everybody here in Canberra forever?' We said that we would not be intimidated and that we would carry on with the debate. We then had the debacle where you,  Mr Speaker,  were not in control of the House though you said yesterday you were in control. 
asked the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice: 
1 ) Will he provide a list of all grants, to any organisation or individual, that are provided from moneys appropriated to his Department, or authorities under his control, to undertake research. 
To what bodies have such moneys been advanced, and what was or is the nature of the research being undertaken as a result of the grants in each of the last 3 years. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
1 ) How many women have been appointed to senior positions in his Department since 2nd December, 1972. 
Who are they. 
To what position has each been appointed, and what is the function of the position. 
asked the Minister for Services and Property, upon notice: 
1 ) How many women have been appointed to senior positions in his Department since 2 December 1 972. 
Who are they. 
To what position has each been appointed and what is the function of the position. 
asked the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice: 
1 ) How many women have been appointed to senior positions in his Department since 2 December 1 972. 
Who are they. 
To what position has each been appointed, and what is the function of the position. 
asked the Minister for the Environment and Conversation, upon notice: 
1 ) How many women have been appointed to senior positions in his Department since 2 December 1 972. 
Who are they. 
To what position has  each been  appointed and what is the function of the position. 
asked the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, upon notice: 
1 ) How many women have been appointed to senior positions in his Department since 2 December 1 972. 
Who are they. 
) To what position has each been appointed, and what is the function of the position. 
asked the Minister for Services and Property, upon notice: 
Further to Question No. 1106 of 16 October 1973 does he have available to him now a figure which his Department is using as a planning basis for predicted office accommodation for the Public Service as at June 1 974. 
If so, what is the figure. 
If not, how does he and his Department plan ahead on the needs of departments for office space. 
Is he responsible for the overall accommodation of Public Service departments or is this a matter determined solely by each individual department. 
asked the Minister for Services and Property, upon notice: () Will he be tabling or releasing the report by the interdepartmental committee on Australian Government office accommodation. 
Is the inter-departmental committee still operating. 
If so, what is its composition, and what studies is it currently undertaking. 
asked the Minister for Services and Property, upon notice: 
1 ) Will he provide a list of all buildings owned by the Australian Government in each capital city within a radius of one mile of the GPO. 
What is their location, and what is the total land space, occupied by them. 
How old is each building. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
How many students from overseas countries are attending (a) each of Australia's universities and (b) other tertiary institutions. 
How many of the students in each category are sponsored financially in some way by the Australian Government 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
Is there any inter-departmental committee or committees dealing with any aspects of Australia's trading relations with (a) New Zealand (b) Japan (c) the United States (d) Great Britain (e) the European Economic Community (f) the Soviet Union (g) China (h) India (i) Indonesia and (j ) any other countries. 
If so will he name the committee or committees concerned. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
How many officers in his Department have been given some form of formal training in financial or auditing procedures used in Commonwealth Departments in the last twelve months. 
What is the division and classification of these officers. 
How many of these officers were in operational, as distinct from financial or accounting, positions m the Service. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Does the Attorney-General intend to alter the family law legislation to take account of views expressed by State Ministers for Child Welfare that children continue to be supervised and advised by State welfare officers. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) Has he received a request from the Building Workers' Industrial Union in Western Australia for the introduction of a new system of tax assessment for workers on overtime or shift work. 
If so, what is the Government's attitude to this request. 
asked the Minister for Services and Property, upon notice: 
1 ) How many officers in his Department have been given some form of formal training in financial or auditing procedures used in Commonwealth departments in the last twelve months. 
What is the division and classification of these officers. 
How many of these officers were in operational, as distinct from financial or accounting, positions in the Service. 
asked the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice: 
1 ) How many officers of his Department have been given some form of formal training in financial or auditing procedures used in Commonwealth departments in the last 12 months. 
What is the division and classification of these officers. 
How many of these officers were in operational, as distinct from financial or accounting, positions in the Service. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
1 ) How many hours were lost due to sick leave in Australian industry in each of the last 10 years. 
What was the average number of hours lost per employee due to absence from work on sick leave in each of those years. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
How many applications were received for permanent residence in Australia from citizens from (a) Burma, (b) Thailand, (c) Cambodia, (d) Laos, (e) North Vietnam, (f) South Vietnam, (g) Malaysia, (h) Singapore, (i) Indonesia, (j) the Philippines, (k) Japan, (1) South Korea, (m) India, (n) Pakistan, (o) Bangladesh and (p) Sri Lanka during 1973. 
How many of these applications were approved in each case. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) Does he support the request by the Federation of Australian University Staff Associations for an inquiry into tertiary education. 
What is his attitude to the Federation's view that there should be a single national body to co-ordinate tertiary education. 
asked the Minister for Services and Property, upon notice: 
Has the Government decided not to sell an area of Commonwealth land in Merrys Lane, West Launceston. 
asked the Minister for Manufacturing Industry, upon notice: 
What progress has been made toward the formation of an Australian Industries Council. 
asked the Minister for the Environment and Conservation, upon notice: 
1 ) How many officers in his Department have been given some form of formal training in financial or auditing procedures used in Commonwealth departments in the last 12 months. 
What is the division and classification of these officers. 
) How many of these officers were in operational, as distinct from financial or accounting positions in the Service. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
How many officers in the Department of Aboriginal Affairs have been given some form of formal training in financial or auditing procedures used in Commonwealth departments in the last 12 months. 
What is the division and classification of these officers. 
How many of these officers were in operational, as distinct from financial or accounting, positions in the Service. 
asked the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, upon notice: 
1 ) How many officers in his Department have been given some form of formal training in financial or auditing procedures used in Commonwealth departments in the last 12 months. 
) What is the division and classification of these officers. 
How many of these officers were in operational, as distinct from financial or accounting, positions in the Service. 
asked the Prime Minister upon notice: 
1 ) When did the Government receive the report from the Public Service Board of its inquiry into action being taken by Departments to ensure that manpower savings are achieved in the implementation of recommendations of the Coombs Report and that staff involved are transferred to priority areas of the administration. 
Has the Government considered the report. 
Is it in the nature of an interim report to be followed up by subsequent reports. 
What is the Government's attitude to the report. 
When will the report be tabled. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
How often are exercises in civil defence preparedness conducted in Departments, for example, in evacuation procedures of office buildings in the event of fire. 
) What form do the exercises take. 
Does he accept that this is an area where the Government should give a lead to other employers. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Further to Question No. 1576 of 12 December 1973, and the creation of a new designation of Special Deputy to the Permanent Head, what powers have been delegated to each person holding this designation. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
1 ) Which countries have ratified or acceded to ILO Convention 100 which relates to equal remuneration. 
What was the date of each ratification or accession. 
Does the Government intend to ratify this Convention; if so when. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
Is the Inter-departmental Committee on Australian Capital Territory housing policy still in operation. 
Has it produced reports for the Government. 
If so, what are the reports and when were they presented to the Government. 
If not, is it expected reports will be produced. 
) Will he make the reports available. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) What was the composition of the Australian Government volunteer workforce provided to assist in flood restoration work in Queensland. 
2 ) How long was the workforce made available. 
Will this assistance be provided in future national disasters. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon  notice: 
1 ) Has the Government been advised that 15,000 public servants working in the central business district of Melbourne could be moved to suburban offices. 
If so, does the Government accept that advice. 
3 ) If so, when will the advice be put into effect. 
Has the Government been advised that 10,000 public servants working in the central business district of Sydney could be moved to suburban offices. 
If so, does the Government accept that advice. 
If so, when will the advice be put into effect. 
asked the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice: 
What is the present status of the construction of the Palmerston freeway. 
asked the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, upon notice: 
How does his Department ensure, as he himself has said is* necessary, that it is providing the most urgently required community recreation facilities in their right priorities. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) For what purpose has the Department used management consultant firms in the last 12 months. 
Which firms have been used. 
3 ) What was the total cost. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
1 ) For what purpose has the Department used management consultant firms in the last 12 months. 
Which firms have been used. 
What was the total cost. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise, upon notice: 
1 ) For what purpose has the Department of Customs and Excise used management consultant firms in the last twelve months. 
) Which firms have been used. 
) What was the total cost. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
For what purpose has the Department used management consultant firms in the last 12 months. 
Which firms have been used. 
What was the total cost. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1) For what purpose has the Department used management consultant firms in the last 12 months. 
Which firms have been used. 
What was the total cost. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) How many officers or employees of his Department or authorities under his control are employed on research and development work. 
) Where are they employed. 
What is the nature of the work being undertaken. 
What is the total expenditure per annum in maintaining this research and development program. 
Who decides the nature of the programs or projects included in this research and development work. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
How many officers or employees of the AttorneyGeneral's Department or of authorities under the AttorneyGeneral's control are employed on research and development work. 
Where are they employed. 
3 ) What is the nature of the work being undertaken. 
What is the total expenditure per annum in maintaining this research and development programme. 
) Who decides the nature of the programmes or projects included in this research and development work. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise, upon notice: 
1 ) How many officers or employees of the Department of Customs and Excise or of authorities under the Minister's control are employed on research and development work. 
Where are they employed. 
3 ) What is the nature of the work being undertaken. 
What is the total expenditure per annum in maintaining this research and development program. 
Who decides the nature of the programs or projects included in this research and development work. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) Have courses been introduced in Australian universities, colleges of advanced education or other academic institutions to train personnel for the Australian Assistance Plan. 
If so, where are the courses being conducted. 
How many are enrolled in each course. 
What is the nature of the course, and is it designed specifically for the Australian Assistance Plan. 
If so, what distinguishes the course, and makes it specific to the Australian Assistance Plan. 
Did the Prime Minister say last night: 
I have nothing but contempt for those who accept and peddle lies and my own colleagues in many cases are among them. 
If so, the nation has a right to know which of its leaders have behaved in such a manner, such actions clearly disqualifying them from holding responsible office. I ask the Prime Minister to identify immediately those of his colleagues to whom he was referring. 
-My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. Does he understand that he has a duty in honour to disclose which of his colleagues have accepted and peddled lies? Does he understand that the public cannot have confidence in any single Minister when the Prime Minister has declared that included among the Ministry are some who are stupid enough or dishonest enough, acting contrary to the Government and national interest, to accept and peddle lies? 
The Prime Minister saidand this morning he confirmed that he used the words- that there are Ministers who accept and peddle lies. The Deputy Prime Minister today has said that there are not. I ask the Prime Ministen Who is to be believed? 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to move an amendment to the question before the Chair. I move: 
That all words after 'that' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: 'This House is of the opinion that the Budget fails to tackle Australia 's economic crisis, in that: 
Unemployment is permitted to grow and the prospect for school leavers is prejudiced. 
Inflation is accelerated. 
Existing poverty is ignored and new poverty is created. 
Personal income tax is increased 45 per cent. 
Living standards will be lowered. 
Private enterprise is stifled. 
Government power is further centralised. 
Individual incentive and thrift is penalised. 
A double tax is levied on estates. and because the Government: 
has made the Budget a socialist vehicle to intensify the attack on the States and break down the free enterprise system. 
believes the absurdity that the Government can spend without people paying or can build without people producing. 
has preached private restraint but has threatened its achievement by its own Government extravagance.' 
This Budget has failed in the most complete sense. Within 3 hours of its delivery, the  President  of the Australian Labor Party forecast the need for a mini-Budget. Its foundations are already crumbling, only 7 days after it was revealed. The Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  has already said that he is willing to reduce taxes if necessary. Why was this not done in the Budget? This Budget will fail those who are already unemployed and those who will be unemployed before Christmas. It will fail those who have already suffered most and who can protect themselves least from the brutal impact of worsening inflation. It will fail Australians who want to develop and build this nation through their individual energy and initiative, through their investment and risk-taking. In the truest sense it will fail 
Australia. It will put the brake on personal and national progress. The growth it will stifle will never be recovered. We will come out of the morass some time but meantime what has been lost will remain forever lost. 
The Budget bears an economic label. But the documents presented by the Treasurer last Tuesday with his Speech are no more than a masquerade. It is a narrow, cynical and thoroughly disreputable attempt to mount a political survival exercise of a discredited Labor Government. It ignores unemployment. It would have us as a nation accept the abhorrent proposition that unemployment is tolerable so long as it does not reach a level of 4 per cent to 5 per cent. And this from the Party claiming to speak for the working man! This from the self proclaimed guardians of social justice and equity! The Budget is built around continued high inflation. We are to have the worst of both worlds. We are promised inflation at 20 per cent and we are guaranteed unemployment of people and resources. It is a prescription for and a description of stagflation. 
This Government will forever be remembered as the Government which resorted to the highest unemployment for a generation in pursuit of a blind and callous doctrine of attempting a massive transfer of resources to the public sector. In the broadest sense this is a Budget which blatantly assumes a lowering in the living standards of ordinary Australians. At the same time, it fails to ease the burdens of the very poorest Australians. It goes further. It will create an extra dimension of poverty in this country. There is no more certain way to impoverish a man and his family than by taking away his job. Even if a man loses his job for a few months, it is a setback of major proportions. Unemployment rose in 1972- we are constantly reminded- but we moved to correct it. But the number unemployed is many thousands more today than it was then. That is the magnitude of the problem for which this Government has to answer. 
These figures show that Australia's inflation rate during the 1960s was the lowest of all in the OECD countries. They show that under the Labor Government the acceleration in inflation has been greater than in any other OECD country. That is what we have to be proud of in its performance. 
We have been exposing the Prime Minister's inconsistencies. We have been disclosing the untruths that he has peddled. He might have to declare himself as one of his colleagues who accept and peddle lies. At page 3 of the Budget Speech this passage appears: 
The relatively subdued conditions in prospect in the private sector provide the first real opportunity we have had to transfer resources to the public sector. 
The Budget aggregates disclose the means. Overall spending is up 32.4 per cent; domestic spending is up 33.2 per cent; receipts are up 30.8 per cent; and income taxes are up 45 per cent. 
You are not suggesting that was Hiawatha that came in? Let us examine what Labor's 2 budgets have done. In 2 years Government spending will have risen 59 per cent, total receipts Will have risen 65 per cent and income taxes will have risen 95 per cent. Is it any wonder we are in a mess, with such structural strains imposed on the economy? This is big government out of control, going beyond the limits of responsibility. 
The private sector has been squeezed and battered, unemployment has been created, the public sector will claim a rich slice of real resources, and the Labor Party hopes that it can take up unemployment by putting people on the public payroll. That is a dream that has already become a nightmare. But its victims are not the Government; its victims have been the people wanting to buy homes. Its victims have been people already thrown out of work and young Aus.tralians who will leave school in a few months time to face the biggest job shortage for more than a decade. Its victims are the small businesses which make up the major portion of industrial, manufacturing and commercial strength. Its victims include those people who make up the great rural and mining industries. For all of them, this is a Budget of illusion and delusion. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Will the Minister provide a list of all grants, to any organisation or individual, that are provided from moneys appropriated to his Department or authorities under his control, to undertake research. 
To what bodies have such moneys been advanced, and what was or is the nature of the research being undertaken as a result of the grants in each of the last 3 years. 
asked the Special Minister of State, upon notice: 
1 ) Will he provide a list of all grants, to any organisation or individual, that are provided from moneys appropriated to his Department, or authorities under his control, to undertake research. 
To what bodies have such moneys been advanced, and what was or is the nature of the research being undertaken as a result of the grants in each of the last three years. 
asked the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice: 
How many women have been appointed to senior positions in his Department since 2 December 1 972? 
Who are they? 
To what position has each been appointed, and what is the function of the position. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Will he make available the report prepared by the Bureau of Transport Economics on the feasibility of introducing electric powered vehicles to replace some conventional vehicles. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What is his attitude to the submission forwarded to him by the Tasmanian Government requesting $1.8 million in 1974-75 and 1975-76 to assist urban public passenger transport in North and North- Western Tasmania. 
asked the Special Minister of State, upon notice:- 
When is it expected that the Government will take a final decision on the recommendations of the Else-Mitchell report into land tenure. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Does he intend to extend funds for urban public transport to provincial centres with a population below 100,000 
Did he indicate to the Australian Transport Advisory Council that this was his intention 
If so, what form will the extension take. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Has the Government decided to drop the condition on grants to urban public transport authorities that have provided free off-peak travel; if so, why. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Is the Bureau of Transport Economics preparing a report which will identify community areas in Australia which are presently poorly served by public transport facilities. 
If so, when will copies of the report be made available. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Has agreement been reached between Commonwealth and State Transport Ministers on the undertaking of a joint study to ease urban transport problems. 
If so, what are the terms of reference, and what studies will be undertaken 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) Has a final report been prepared following the rail car preference survey carried out by the Bureau of Transport Economics in Brisbane. 
) If so, when will the report be made public. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
With reference to the answer to question No. 1110 (Hansard, 7 November 1973, pages 2970-1), which of the studies mentioned have been completed. 
Which of the studies have resulted, or will result, in reports being prepared. 
) When is it expected that the uncompleted projects will be finalised. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
What progress has been made by the Bureau of Transport Economics in the investigation referred to it by the Government, namely, an examination of the relative benefits of a unified national railway system or the maintenance of the present State railway and Commonwealth railway system. 
Did he indicate in 1973 that, if the Bureau saw advantages in retaining the present system, he would accept that opinion. 
asked the Minister for Services and Property, upon notice: 
Is his Department conducting a study of Commonwealth land throughout Australia. 
If so, what is the purpose of the study. 
Who is conducting it. 
Will a report to the Minister be prepared. 
Will it be made public. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
When did the Government first promise a sum of $500,000 for the Tamar Valley in Northern Tasmania for the development of the Tamar region. 
Who gave the promise. 
To whom was the promise given. 
When was the promise given. 
5 ) How was this promise communicated. 
If the promise was made in writing, will he incorporate a copy in Hansard. 
If the promise was made orally, will he indicate the exact nature of the promise, the conditions under which the grant was offered, and the purpose to which the moneys were to be put. 
Has the money yet been received by the Tasmanian Government. 
If not, why not, and when will the money be received by the Tasmanian Government. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Is the Bureau of Transport Economics examining the feasibilty of constructing a rail link from Alice Springs and Darwin to Mount Isa; if not, when will it do so? 
asked the Minister for the Environment and Conservation, upon notice: 
1 ) When has the Council of Nature Conservation Ministers met 
) Who attended each meeting. 
3 ) What matters have been discussed at each meeting. 
What resolutions have been passed. 
What action has been taken on each of the resolutions. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) Can he say what legislation exists in each State relating to co-operatives. 
What are the broad groupings of co-operatives that have been set up in each State, and what are their functions. 
3 ) How many co-operatives are there in each group. 
What grants has the Government made to cooperatives since 2 December 1 972 and for what purpose. 
asked the Minister for Northern Development, upon notice: 
How many women have been appointed to senior positions in his Department since 2 December 1 972. 
Who are they. 
To what position has each been appointed, and what is the function of the position. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Will Miss Elizabeth Reid be submitting a report to the Government following her recent visit to other countries and to the United Nations 
) If so, will the report be make public. 

 Mr WHITLAM -The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 

 Ms Elizabeth Reid intends to submit a report to me following her visit to other countries and to the United Nations. 
No. 
Department of Northern Development: Training in Financial and Auditing Procedures  (Question No. 357) 
asked the Minister for Northern Development, upon notice: 
1 ) How many officers in his Department have been given some form of formal training in financial or auditing procedures used in Commonwealth Departments in the last 12 months. 
What is the division and classification of these officers. 
3 ) How many of these officers were in operational, as distinct from financial or accounting positions in the Service. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
How many public servants are presently on leave without pay for periods of 12 months or more. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Will he provide a list of all grants to any organization or individual that are provided from moneys appropriated to his Department, or authorities under his control, to undertake research. 
To what bodies have such moneys been advanced and what was or is the nature of the research being undertaken as a result of the grants in each of the last 3 years. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) How many women have been appointed to senior positions in his Department since 2 December 1 972. 
Who are they. 
To what position has each been appointed and what is the function of the position. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
How many officers in the Postmaster-General's Department have been given some form of formal training in financial or auditing procedures used in Commonwealth Departments in the last twelve months? 
What is the Division and classification of these officers? 
) How many of these officers were in operational, as distinct from financial or accounting, positions in the Service? 
asked the Minister for Services and Property, upon notice: 
1 ) What are the conditions under which land has been allocated to the Western Region Commission in Melbourne. 
Has he made land available to other local government organisations. 
If so, under what conditions and for what purpose. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
What establishment has been approved for the National Disasters Organisation. 
What is the nature of the joint Commonwealth/State exercises that are to be conducted in October to cope with national disaster situations. 
How often is it planned to conduct such exercises. 
asked the Minister for Services and Property, upon notice: 
1 ) For what purpose has the Department used management consultant firms in the last 12 months. 
Which firms have been used. 
) What was the total cost. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
For what purpose has the Postmaster-General's Department used management consultant firms in the last 12 months? 
Which firms have been used? 
What was the total cost? 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) How many officers or employees of his Department or of authorities under his control are employed on research and development work. 
Where are they employed. 
) What is the nature of the work being undertaken. 
What is the total expenditure per annum in maintaining this research and development program. 
Who decides the nature of the programs or projects included in this research and development work. 
asked the Minister for the 
Environment and Conservation, upon notice: 
1 ) How may officers or employees of his Department or of authorities under his control are employed on research and development work. 
Where are they employed. 
What is the nature of the work being undertaken. 
What is the total expenditure per annum in maintaining this research and development program. 
Who decides the nature of the programs or projects included in this research and development work. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Did the Prime Minister promise before the 1972 elections that the Labor Government would publish Treasury forecasts. 
If so, when will that promise be implemented. 
asked the Minister for Science, upon notice: 
What will be the total cost of conducting the twiceyearly test of all cigarettes for tar and nicotine content. 
What is the establishment of the special unit which will conduct the test. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the criticisms by the Australian Workers' Union of the draft regulations that have been framed by the National Health and Medical Research Council concerning health dangers attributable to asbestos; if so, what is his attitude to them. 
Has the Council given sufficient consideration to the Union's attitudes. 
Will he ensure that, in line with the recent ILO Convention and recommendation on occupational cancer, laws relating to the control of substances which cause cancer should be framed after consultation with workers involved. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Is it intended to allocate a one time grant of $80,000 to the Royal Australian Nursing Federation Research and Education Trust to set up an initial sinking fund, and to enable an interdisciplinary group, including nurses and other professionals in the health care field, to plan and recommend funding from the Trust for research and educational programs. 
asked the Minister for Science, upon notice: 
For what purpose has the Department used management consultant firms in the past twelve months? 
Which firms have been used? 
3 ) What was the total cost? 
Will the Prime Minister condemn last night's scandalous episode in which information about the decision to devalue the Australian dollar was widely available throughout Parliament House up to 7 or 8 hours before the official announcement which was made at 6 a.m. today. Is the Prime Minister aware that at the time of this disgraceful leakage of information it was about midday London time, allowing a full afternoon of trading to speculators in the northern hemisphere? Will he now order an urgent inquiry to establish how the premature disclosure occurred last night; which Minister has ministerial responsibility for the preservation of the secrecy of the decision; and the extent and effect of speculation in the Australian dollar on foreign money markets resulting from this leakage? Will the Prime Minister table the report of that inquiry in the House? Will he preserve the integrity of Australia's international reputation by requiring the responsible Minister to resign as would be required by the Westminster system of parliamentary government? 
Does the Prime Minister deny that it was common knowledge in this Parliament last night-rather I should say 'around the House' because no statement was made to the Parliament- that there was to be a devaluation of the currency which would take place this morning? If he does deny it, how does he reconcile his denial with the fact that members of the Press wrote their stories giving the exact figure last night for publication in this morning's newspapers? For instance, does he deny the accuracy of the statement in the ' Courier Mail ' of today that 'The devaluation is expected to be by 12 per cent against the US dollar', and that 'A Government official said last night there would be an announcement today'? Does he deny that the Melbourne 'Sun' published the exact figure? Against this background, will he please put aside the bluster of the guilty and engage in an inquiry to ascertain how this serious information could become available to those people wishing to make profit from it? Does he realise that this is a worse example than anything that has been put in the Rae report? In the examples in the Rae report private information was used by private individuals from a private source, but this emanates from the Government. It was put last night that a Government official would make a statement today. Will the Prime Minister therefore have the inquiry which I requested? 
-Does the Prime Minister deny that profits were made on overseas money markets arising out of the devaluation decision announced this morning and the circumstances preceding it last night? If he does deny that profits were so made, does he deny that the opportunity was created for making those profits? I ask the Prime Minister whether he recalls stating publicly on 29 November 1973: 
It would be quite improper for a Minister, for a Public Service adviser, to allow persons who are not sworn to secrecy to know matters in a forthcoming Budget or proposed currency or interest or customs changes. 
Does he still hold that view? 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister has just said that he does not know whether profits were made on overseas money markets. Does he not realise that this represents a scandalous situation? Is he prepared to leave this scandalous situation without inquiry? If he does not know whether profits were made on overseas money markets, does he not believe that he has a responsibility to the Australian people, to the Government and to this Parliament to ascertain whether they were or were not made and, if they were, how much money was made and by whom? Will he now agree to the holding of an inquiry to ascertain the facts? 

 -Mr Speaker, I ask for your indulgence for a moment. During question time the Prime Minister said that if there was any evidence he would, himself, make sure an inquiry was made. I rely upon this evidence, which is produced by the Treasurer, and presumably he relies on it It was included in the document which was tabled. It reads: 
Rumours of an imminent devaluation caused a flurry of selling on the foreign exchange market in London today. The rumours spread rapidly through financial circles following a Melbourne newspaper report that the Government had decided on the 1 2 per cent devaluation. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-Yes. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  at a Press conference yesterday said: 
Tax indexation would preserve the present ratio of income to taxation but it would do nothing to remove the unfair features of the present scale- of the scale which was there until  Mr Crean  announced the changes, the first changes for 20 years- in the Budget last Tuesday. 
This misrepresents me because in 1972 I did restructure the tax scale. The Prime Minister's statement was a misrepresentation. It was tantamount to accepting and peddling lies. I wish to quote from my Budget Speech of 1972. 
It was a misrepresentation and that is why I am making my point clear. My case can be made clearer by a reference to a short passage from my Budget Speech of 1972 in which I said: 
Last and most importantly, we propose to reduce the rates of personal income tax payable by an average of 10 per cent. In April we reduced personal income tax by 2 per cent. The reduction I now propose is on top of that. A flat rate cut based on removing the present  2'A  per cent levy and the granting of  VA  per cent rebate across the board was a possible course. However, we have decided to take what we regard as the more equitable course of restructuring the tax scale so as to ensure diminishing percentage reduction as incomes rise. 

 Mr Speaker, that discloses the misrepresentation in the allegation by the Prime Minister that there was no restructuring of the tax rates for 20 years. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
1 ) Will he provide a list of all grants, to any organisation or individual, that are provided from moneys appropriated to his Department, or authorities under his control, to undertake research. 
To what bodies have such moneys been advanced, and what was or is the nature of the research being undertaken as a result of the grants in each of the last three years. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
How many women have been appointed to senior positions in the Department of Aboriginal Affairs since 2 December 1972. 
Who are they. 
To what position has each been appointed, and what is the function of the position. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) How many Aborigines are employed in road building programs at the Aboriginal communities in Central Australia for which funds were provided for that purpose in September 1973. 
What equipment and trucks have been bought by the community with the funds provided. 
Does the Government intend to extend this program beyond the initially planned 6 month period. 
Who has been responsible for supervision of the various road building programs at each of the communities. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Minister's attention been drawn to comments by the  Chairman  of the Western Australian Aboriginal Board of Management,  Mr Ken  Colbung, expressing concern that many voluntary organisations assisting Aborigines in Western Australia had been waiting 7 months or more, since May 1973, to receive funds from the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, 
If the allegation was correct, what was the reason for the delay. 
asked the Minister for Manufacturing Industry, upon notice: 
Further to question No. 932 of 19 September 1973, can he indicate in which cases consideration is given to requests from charitable and other community type organisations before Commonwealth goods are put to auction or put out to tender. 
What criteria are used to determine where such consideration is given. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Does the Minister support the recommendation of the National Aboriginal Congress for a Royal Commission to inquire into allegations of police brutality to Aboriginals and Torres Strait Islanders. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Does the Minister support the recommendation of the National Aboriginal Congress for an inquiry into fostering of Aboriginal children. 
asked the Minister for Northern Development, upon notice: 
1 ) For what purpose has the Department used management consultant firms in the last 12 months. 
Which firms have been used. 
What was the total cost. 
asked the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice: 
1 ) How many officers or employees of his Department or of authorities under his control are employed on research and development work; 
) Where are they employed; 
) What is the nature of the work being undertaken; 
What is the total expenditure per annum in maintaining this research and development program; 
Who decides the nature of the programs or projects included in this research and development work. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
How many officers or employees of his Department or of authorities under his control are employed on research and development work. 
Where are they employed. 
What is the nature of the work being undertaken. 
What is the total expenditure per annum in maintaining this research and development program. 
Who decides the nature of the programs or projects included in this research and development work. 
asked the Special Minister of State, upon notice: 
Further to the answer to question No. 403 of 16 July 1974, is there a need for an urgent assessment of the freight rate disadvantages suffered by Tasmania, and, therefore, is it important to finalise the Nimmo inquiry at the earliest possible date. 
Has the Government set a time limit on the duration of the inquiry; if so, what is the time limit. 
If the Government has not set a time limit, when does the Government expect and, in fact, desire the inquiry to be completed by. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Who are the present members of the National Aboriginal Congress. 
What sub-committees of the Congress have been formed, and what is the membership of each. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
1 ) Will the Minister provide a list of all grants, to any organisation or individual, that are provided from moneys appropriated to his Department, or authorities under his control, to undertake research. 
To what bodies have such moneys been advanced, and what was or is the nature of the research being undertaken as a result of the grants in each of the last 3 years. 

 - Mr Speaker, the death of Eric Harrison has left members of the Liberal Party in a state of great sadness, because Eric Harrison had a very special place in the memory of the Liberal Party especially, of course, the Liberal Party in New South Wales. Eric Harrison lived to an old age. Unfortunately Eric was rather ill during his last few years and was unable to pursue ordinary communications with other people as he had done in the past- communications which other people so enjoyed and which Eric also enjoyed. At a young age he went off to the First World War. He distinguished himself as a soldier during that war. After his immediate war service finished he engaged in sport. He represented Australia in servicemen's sport in England after the war. He returned to Australia where he took on rowing. He distinguished himself in that sport as one would expect a man of his physical toughness and his mental toughness to do, because rowing is a sport that requires both those attributes, which he possessed and he showed them. 
He then went into business and succeeded in business. 
He entered the Commonwealth Parliament, as one would have expected, as a crusading breaker of the system. He came in as an Independent. He came in as a Liberal, but not at that time with the endorsement of the Party. He won because the people of his electorate recognised that he was a strong man, a man who had a lot to give and a man who would represent his electorate and build for himself a career in the national Parliament where he could contribute to the welfare of the Australian people. They are the circumstances in which he entered Parliament. In political terms Eric Harrison was very much in the mood of our political philosophy of today, namely, where the individual is entitled to be considered predominantly above the interests of the State, that the State exists to serve the interests of the individual and to create the environment for the individual to prosper and be able to fulfil himself as an individual on the basis that successful individuals will make a successful community, and that the community, from the success of individuals, will be able to do those things which it wants for the poor, the sick, people overseas and so forth. That was the sort of attitude that Eric had. He had a vigorous, independent state of mind and was a great supporter of individuality. He certainly showed very great individuality himself in everything he did. 
He was the  Deputy  Leader of the Liberal Party. He was a co-founder of the Liberal Party back in 1944 and he contributed to the building of that Party at all times on the basis of total loyalty given to  Sir Robert  Menzies who was in the true sense the political founder of the Liberal Party. But  Sir Robert  Menzies needed great support from his political colleagues in the Parliament and he needed immense support from the organisational groups representing different points of view and different attitudes which had to be brought together. Eric Harrison played an immense role in doing that.  His  contribution to the stability of the parliamentary system that we have today- the system of a government side and an opposition side- can only be measured by those who lived at that time and who saw his contribution. Those who entered the Parliament a little later, as I did, found that his contribution was still well-known and still well accepted. 
He was a Minister. He served very well as a Minister. His record as an administrator is a fine one. It does him great credit. It is great credit to the memory of the man. I was elected to this Parliament in December 19SS and took my seat here in the first session in 1956. When I came in, 

 Sir Eric Harrison was Leader of the House and  Deputy  Leader of the Liberal Party. I remember the warmth of his welcome and his determination that the 'young fellows' as he used to call us, who came in at that time, knew what it was all about, knew what the Parliament was about, knew how to conduct themselves, knew how to behave and knew how to avoid, as he used to put it, 'a clip across the ear'. He thought that that was the way people would learn. If a person spoke out of turn it was necessary that that person, to use his term, be given a clip across the ear so that that person understood and knew the error and did not repeat it. 
He had all new members into his office. He spoke to them. He wanted to know what personal problems and what electorate problems they had and sought to determine how he could help them. He gave instructions to the Government Whip of the day that young fellows with difficult electorates were to be considered favourably in terms of leave and that young members of Parliament who were wanting to exit from their business or professional careers or, if possible, to maintain their professional careers should be given assistance to do so. I benefited very much from the decision in that respect by  Sir Eric  Harrison.  His  instructions to the Government Whip helped me as I continued a law practice in those days. 

 Sir Eric Harrison was a tough man as anybody who was in the House in his time knows. He was an extraordinarily strong debater, given to the use of very many colourful phrases. He was a hearty man who, after the debate, would be able to join in a joke and in friendship with those whom he had vigorously attacked for their attitudes in the preceding debate. As Leader of the House, he ran a strong, tight House. He knew what numbers were and he used the numbers as necessary. But he always enabled the Opposition of those days to have debating time available to it to express its point of view, as is proper. He always did that. He was a man of great humour. He was very self-assured. He was a warmhearted man. I think he has been described as a strong-willed, bluff man who liked people and whom people liked. As his final public service he was High Commissioner in the United Kingdom. Many members of the House visited the United Kingdom while he was there and knew the warmth of the welcome he gave, his knowledge of the British scene and his capacity to put people in touch with those with whom they wanted to talk. Thus they were able to inform themselves, through him and his staff, in the best way possible so that they could derive benefit from their visit to the United Kingdom. 

 Sir Eric Harrison had a tremendous career; a tremendous career of contribution to Australia's political and national development. I think I could truly say that anybody in this House who can emulate the contribution that  Sir Eric  Harrison made has the right to feel truly proud of himself. I am proud that I served with  Sir Eric  Harrison and that I remember him so well. He was a very great Australian.  His  family, in thenbereavement, and especially his wife, Lady Harrison, can feel that this House understands the contribution he made and will forever honour him for it. 
My question is addressed to the Acting Prime Minister. If I might have your indulgence,  Mr Speaker,  I congratulate the Minister for Overseas Trade on attaining the post of Acting Prime Minister, which is an honourable one. 
I ask: Did the Acting Prime Minister say last Friday that the Labor Government had acted wrongly in removing the superphosphate bounty? When will the subsidy be restored, to provide some relief from the extraordinary cost pressures that are built up on rural industries and to help to build up productivity in this vital economic area? 
I take the opportunity of this debate on the Universities Commission Bill to speak on a matter which I think is of extreme importance- that is the question of housing for students in tertiary institutions. Many grants have been given for special purposes, such as social  planning  and health centres, which are extremely worth while and which we have supported. However, there is on the doorstep of each tertiary institution another problem that has been so far ignored. That is, of student housing, the availability and quality of which needs to be raised. 
Traditionally student housing, other than family housing, has been the colleges and halls of residence. These have either been secular institutions attached to the university or institutions administered privately by various religious denominations. During the 1960s this type of housing became less appropriate for the student culture as it was evolving. It will be remembered that there was a massive inflow of students into tertiary institutions. More and more students wish to live in non-collegiate housing and rented accommodation close to the universities. This created many problems for the students and, as I understand it, is causing a very great deal of concern within the Australian Union of Students. 
The campuses- their academic buildings and their facilities for study- reflect the large amount of money which was put into them by LiberalCountry Party governments in the 1950s and 1960s following the formation of the Australian Universities Commission. Unfortunately, there has been a growth of accommodation problems off campus which often leave students living in depressed conditions which border on the squalid in some circumstances. The demand for accommodation is increasing. For instance, in 1973 at Monash University, which happens to be in my electorate, the student housing office had 1,097 inquiries for housing of which only 502 were successful in being housed. Up to the end of June this year the demand had increased to 2,300, yet only 910 students had been housed in flats and private accommodation. 
The problems of student housing appear to be sub-divided in 3 ways. The first problem is related to the accommodation now being provided not being appropriate to the wishes of very many students of today. These students do not wish to live in the collegiate surroundings. They see the terms of occupancy as being determined by rigid formulae worked out by the Federal Government. The problem is being added to because the responsibility for hostel funding has been removed from State education departments in respect of teachers' colleges. Hostels have been closed at the State College of Victoria in Melbourne and in Bendigo the fees have almost doubled. At the Armidale College of Advanced Education the rentals have gone up and many of the students are living in makeshift accommodation. It is up to the Government to realise that it must give consideration to funding more informal accommodation than that which is available at present and which is more in keeping with the lifestyle of the modern day student 
The second problem is that with rising prices as a result of the inflationary spiral, costs for student housing have escalated. The subsidy from the Government is of the order of $2,500 per student place, this being given on the basis of half cost. However, the actual cost per student place is approximately $7,000 to $8,000 and, therefore, the subsidy has become inadequate if the current formulae are to be followed. Many of the campuses are in inner city areas- obviously this includes the University of New South Wales, Sydney University and Melbourne Universitywhere prices are such that the problem is grossly aggravated. The cost of buildings is tied to expenditure on new 'bricks and mortar' and precludes the development and renovation of existing buildings. Therefore problems arise. In inner urban areas, where so many of the older universities are located, the construction of new buildings is often at odds with the aesthetic requirements of the inner urban area. Yet it is here that so much of the student housing must now be developed outside the confines of the university. Adaptation of old buildings may be preferable to demolishing huge areas to put up collegiate style accommodation which is not acceptable to local government resident associations and other interested bodies within the area. It is also not the desired type of accommodation preferred by many of the students. 
The third problem is that of rental. Students, whether they are on a fixed allowance or not, are caught up in the rising rent charges. The average rents vary a lot from a minimum of $5 per week per room in Adelaide where there is a university subsidy, to a maximum of $33 in Armidale. The Australian average is about $ 12 to $ 1 5 per week which is for a room without anything else. This must be seen in the context of the tertiary allowance of $31 per week. Further rent charges are now to be aggravated by the surchage of 10 per cent on so-called unearned income that the Government seems intent on inflicting on the Australian population. This must further raise rents. Students will not be the only sufferers, of course, but it is in that context that I am now speaking. Despite the amendment announced by the Caucus economic expert, the honourable member for Chifly  (Mr Armitage),  it still leaves students with the problem of having to pay rents beyond their means because the exemption relates to the owner of the rented accomodation not to the student. They are thus being forced into substandard quarters by reason of the fact that they cannot afford anything better. 
In an affluent society, students living in caravans or in gymnasiums is not a pretty sight. The social problems which arise are evident if policy provides the apparatus of education without providing the social environment conducive to academic study. To force students into an 'artist in a garret' situation may be passed over as romantic remembrance by some, but for those who will be socially affected- perhaps those who fail their examinations- it is an indictment of the noncomprehensive and short-sighted nature of the tertiary education policy. We should not seek only to build the bricks and mortar. We should take into account the social consequences surrounding the universities and the colleges of advanced education which we promote. In the tertiary sector we should make an urgent reappraisal of this whole situation. The beautiful new campuses must not be surrounded by ghettos of student disability. Landlords themselves may be under pressure, not only through the surchage on income but also by the problems which inflation brings in terms of increased local government charges. Here lies a very real interest of students in arresting inflation and having sensible tax laws. 
The Government should look at these 3 problems in concert and develop policies designed to correct these anomalies and create a more contemporary response to the issues which we face. Only then will the students of Australia be able to reap the benefits of their tertiary education effectively. It is not merely a direction designed to assist students, although it certainly will and I strongly support the legislation for that reason. But the public will benefit. The subject of this legislation is no different from any other aspect of education. The interests of the individual serve the broader purposes of the community. 
The States Grants Bill relates to Tasmania and it is particularly on the current plight of Tasmania that I wish to speak. I feel that I should let the people of Tasmania as well as their representatives in this place speak for  themselves. I wanted the people to speak for themselves. Therefore, several months ago I asked the people of Australia through their local councils what was their reaction to the current economic situation. The response was as substantial as it was depressing as a catalogue of the consequences of this Government's economic management. Of over 800 local government councils in Australia well over 500 replied and, as the replies came in over a period of time, it was perfectly obvious that the credit squeeze and the impact on local government was mounting very markedly. Now it has reached a stage where local government is in great difficulties. Not only is local government in great difficulties but the people of Australia are in difficulties. It is about the Tasmanian people that I wish to speak this afternoon. 
The results that I received, as I have mentioned, were a catalogue of the consequences of the Government's economic mismanagement. I would like to quote what was said by the people of Tasmania themselves. The people of Ulverstone on the north coast of Tasmania said: 
Even with the severe increase in rates, Council will have to cut its works program for 1974-75 year to the absolute essential services and works. 
Council will in all probability have to seriously consider staff retrenchment owing to the high rate of interest on loan money. 
One such project which will be vitally affected is an improved water supply for Ulverstone ratepayers, failing a satisfactory reply from the Federal Government to make money available for a Regional Scheme for the North West Coast of Tasmania. For Council to increase the holding capacity of the headworks and put in a nitration plant at the present time would be far beyond its capacity and capability on present day high rates of interest. 
That is the experience of all places throughout Australia. It is interesting to note that, at a time when this Government's Budget increases Government spending by 32.4 per cent, local government bodies are having to cut their public works to absolute essentials. But it is the local government bodies that provide services to so many people of Australia. So it is the people of Australia who will have the services withdrawn from them. It is an interesting somersault in action for the Labor Government in Canberra to increase spending by 32.4 per cent while the ratepayers in these areas are so badly affected. 
During the last election campaign I saw a deputation from those concerned with seeing the water scheme I have mentioned implemented. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  did not even bother to see them. He refused to obtain at first hand the relevant information. The Budget gives no satisfaction and provides no money for them. The honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Davies)  has explained the Government's reluctance to help by accusing the North West Municipal League of not having a properly documented submission. I have seen their submission; it is detailed. There has been plenty of time for the Federal Government to query any aspect that has not been fully explained. There have been many opportunities. So much for the concern of the Canberra Labor Government for Tasmania. Then there is Penguin, the home town of  Mr Davies,  the honourable member for Braddon. Here is what the council clerk said in reply to my query: 
Council has also found difficulty in accepting reasonable tender prices for materials and contracts. Tenders received for buildings and the provision of essential services are at least SO per cent higher than estimates based on costs 6 months ago. 
I repeat, 50 per cent higher than estimates of costs 6 months ago. 
The National economic trends caused Council to investigate the possibility of reducing staff to a minimum, curtail essential works and reduce capital expenditure. With the curtailment of this expenditure must come resultant unemployment, although Council feels that the full impact of the inflationary period has not been felt in Tasmania. Council has no desire to curtail essential works but the factors mentioned and the increased interest rate on capital works expenditure leaves very little by way of an alternative. 
Interest rates in Australia today are at their highest in the entire history of the country and those high interest rates were deliberately achieved by this Government. One night there was a meeting in the Lodge of the assembled economic wisdom of the Labor Party. There were three of them there: The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  and the Treasurer  (Mr Crean).  They announced proudly: 'We are going to increase interest rates', and this is the problem which has been put upon the Australian people through local governments, on State governments, and of course on those people who are borrowing for their houses, borrowing on overdraft, borrowing on hire purchase or personal loans. The Labor Government thinks Braddon is safe, so it adopts this attitude. The responses I have had indicate that the people of the north-west coast are not satisfied. They are not satisfied with their representation and they are not satisfied with the quality of the policy decisions being made by the Labor Government. 
Let us turn to the west coast and the municipality of Gormanston, an area which many would think traditionally votes Labor. I quote the reply from there. It says: 
Ordinary business houses are pegged down on credit only on gilt-edged securities. Not as bad here as the 1961 credit squeeze - 
Remember that this letter was dated 4 August, and the credit situation has worsened since- but tomorrow it could be - 
I am warned, and it has become worse. 
-Where are the Tasmanians? I am asked. The honourable member for Deniston,  Mr Coates,  is the only Tasmanian representative in the House at the present time. Tasmania, because of shipping and transport, could be in dire trouble in a short time. That was the warning in August and it now is in dire trouble. When the Canberra Labor Government decided to raise the freight charges the first time the Tasmanian Labor Premier heard about it was on the radio. The Tasmanian Labor Premier was not informed that there were going to be freight rises, he had to listen to it on a news service. 
-My friend  Mr Nixon,  the honourable member for Gippsland, says they just were not game to tell him. I think they were ashamed to tell him. It is a great example of cooperation between a Labor Government in Canberra and a Labor Government in Hobart. The Minister for Transport, the distinguished incumbent from Newcastle, talked in an offhand manner about increased imposts on sea freights to Tasmania.  Mr Jones  said: 
The Government believes it is unfortunate but nevertheless unavoidable that these increases have to be introduced. It is just a fact of life that increases will have to be introduced unless we are prepared to subsidise the service which we are not prepared to do. 
Notwithstanding a statement made by the Prime Minister, when asking the Tasmanians to vote for him, that he would make sea freight transport costs to and from Tasmania the same as mainland rail transport costs, there is the Minister for Transport, who is supposed to fulfil the policy undertaking, the election promise, saying the Government is not prepared to subsidise in any way. It is equally a fact of life that sea freight is the lifeblood of Tasmania. If the Government wants to choke Tasmania the best way to do it is to zero in on sea freight. That is where it can do the most damage to Tasmania and that is where it has chosen to do the most damage. 
The Tasmanian members were concerned enough then to protest belatedly. The fact that one out of five of them is in the chamber for this Bill shows that the protest was rather short-lived. I received a long apologia from the member for Bass, the Minister for Defence, the former  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Barnard).  All it contained were vague words about the Prime Minister seeking further information. What further information can you need than the report of all the local councils of Tasmania, of the State Government of Tasmania? He can receive information at any time he wishes but to suggest he can do nothing because of a lack of information is merely to misstate the truth. I can only describe it as the classical fob-off. Two weeks later the Acting Prime Minister,  Dr Cairns,  who has finally visited Tasmania, announced that the Australian National Line will maintain the old rates for all northbound general cargoes until the Nimmo report on transport is available. Why only northbound cargo? The Government is desperate. 
Tasmanians have seen too many short-term policies. They now want meaningful long term solutions for the problems that we all recognise Tasmanians have to overcome. The Prime Minister has incessantly repeated the promise to make shipping freight rates across Bass Strait no more than rail freight charges in other States. It was an election promise; it has not been honoured and there is no intention to honour it. The Government has set no time limit on the duration of the Nimmo inquiry. Prior to the election in May I said that we would require a report within 3 months, even if it were an interim report. Three months would have meant that the report came in last August, and we could have had the proper policies, but the Government is not concerned to pursue the matter. Let me turn to Brighton, and I immediately wish to take this opportunity of congratulating that community on achieving its 150th anniversary of foundation. Brighton is in the south of the State, it is in Wilmot, the electorate of  Mr Duthie.  I use it to illustrate the fact that the malaise in Tasmania is not confined to the north. The local government in their reply to me said this: 
Higher wages are causing councils concern as the rate revenue will need to be increased to overcome this burden, together with no or little increase in Government assistance. 
The Warden of Brighton refers to an instance which illustrates the problems of high interest rates. He said: 
Council entered into an agreement to repay the total cost of a sewerage treatment plant and water reservoir of $380,000 as by way of an  interim  loan to the Department over 4 years. Interest rates were based on 6.3 per cent, an amount that Council felt at the time it was too high, but enabled Council to fix rates at a reasonable level. Since that time, however, the costs have escalated to $627,000 and the interest rates have increased 4.05 per cent - 
This means that council is paying 10.35 per cent on loan money to service the ratepayers of the municipality. Rates have to go up, other services have to be cut down and there will be a retrenchment of the workforce. Is this not a staggering indictment of the Federal Government's economic policy? No matter that the agreement was with the State Housing Department, it reflects the consequences of the Labor Government and the policies that in the end are passed on to the ordinary citizen, the ordinary ratepayer, who has to be abide by them and be burdened by them. Is it any wonder that the Labor Party is unpopular in Tasmania and increasingly so? I refer now to Huon in the electorate of Franklin. The honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Sherry)  has not bothered to come into the House for this debate. This is what the  Deputy  Council  Clerk  had to say: 
I would point out that employment opportunities in the Huon Valley in recent years have been concentrated on apple and pear exports and associated works. Now, with the collapse of this industry and the rapid removal of orchards under the Federal tree-pull scheme, employment opportunities have disappeared. 
This is surely a classical case for structural adjustment assistance and the Opposition supports this concept. This assistance must be given, but where is the evidence that the Government is doing anything except making high sounding speeches? The Government has failed lamentably to get this scheme off the ground while the need for it increases daily. 
Let us look at Launceston, the heart-land of Bass, the electorate of the former Deputy Prime Minister, the Minister for Defence. He has not bothered to come into the chamber for the debate. There is much unemployment in Launceston. It is affecting the whole of the city, and its effect is extending beyond the city into the adjoining areas. The 'Launceston Examiner' editorial of 5 September states: 
Personal pleas, letters, telephone calls, facts before the socalled task force inquiry into the calamity that has hit the textile industry and dozens of telegrams have achieved nothing. Nobody in Canberra cares. 
Is it any surprise that the honourable member for Bass- the former  Deputy  Prime Minister and the Minister for Defence- the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Davies)  and the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  are not in the House when the 'Launceston Examiner' can say- and it is worth repeating- 
Personal pleas, letters, telephone calls, facts before the socalled task force inquiry into the calamity that has hit the textile industry and dozens of telegrams have achieved nothing. Nobody in Canberra cares. 
The editorial meant that nobody in Government in Canberra cares. No Labor member of the House of Representatives and no Labor  Senator from  Tasmania care, but the Opposition does care. To see a thriving town brought to its knees by what was seen by Labor Ministers to be a nice, clean economic decision to cut tariffs is not a pretty sight. Unemployment is not pretty anywhere and I remind honourable members that unemployment is the greatest way to create poverty in a nation. This Government has deliberately opted for unemployment, to bring about poverty. Today after 20 months of a Labour Government, unemployment, measured by the same index as it was measured by in August 1 972 when honourable members now on the government side were screaming that unemployment seasonally adjusted- which is the only way to measure it- was 117,000, has reached 134,000. We know that unfortunately it is to get worse. 
The Labor Party is the party of unemployment. It chose the unemployment option last October. I warned it of what it was doing, but it persisted with its decision and it is persisting with it today. Unemployment is not a proper option; it is a very debilitating social and economic experience for those affected by it. One of the members participating in the decision was the honourable member for Bass, who is a Cabinet Minister and a former  Deputy  Prime Minister, and another member participating in the decision is a Labor senator from Tasmania, the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt).  Those 2 members from Tasmania participated in the decision to cut tariffs and to bring Launceston's community to the debilitated state that it is in. It does not matter how innocently the honourable member for Bass may say he was involved; he was involved. He is bound by the decision and he remains bound by the decision. No amount of talk that he would like the decision changed but that he cannot get to through the Cabinet or cannot get it through the Caucus will alter the situation. If that is the position, then the people of Launceston need to change their representative. 
Blanket cuts in tariffs may look very neat to the men in Canberra when they announce them, but when no demographic or other disability is considered in the decision and when the social consequences are not considered, then how hollow do the protestations of these men sound? There was no consideration of whether an affected industry was a decentralised industry, whether it employed women, what was the skill of the people in the work force, whether they would be absorbed elsewhere, whether the industry was already in competition with imported goods and what its level of profitability was, and whether there had been a Tariff Board inquiry into the industry shortly before. Those things were just ignored and the 25 per cent across the board tariff cut affecting textiles was adopted. The honourable member for Bass, the honourable member for Braddon, the honourable member for Wilmot, the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Coates),  the honourable member for Franklin and the Labor senators from Tasmania all know of this unemployment. Certainly the Minister for Defence knows all about it. I wonder whether he was one of the 'nervous Nellies' about whom the Prime Minister was talking in his speech on Monday of last week. 
My question is directed to the Acting Prime Minister. Yesterday the Acting Treasurer said that the penal tax provision on socalled unearned income was justified and he argued for it. It is reported that the honourable member for Blaxland argued in a Caucus committee that the provision is totally unjustified. In the spirit of honesty that the honourable gentleman spoke of yesterday, will he say unequivocally which side he is on today and which side he was on when Cabinet was reaching its conclusions to apply the new tax in the Budget? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the size and age structure of the Papunya Aboriginal community. 
How many Aborigines from the Papunya Aboriginal community will be employed in the housing program being undertaken there following a grant of $ 140,500. 
What amount will be used to establish the Papunya housing association. 
What amount will be used to purchase plant and equipment and what type of plant and equipment will be purchased. 
When is it expected that the 4 houses currently being constructed for the community will be completed. 
Is it expected that further grants will be made to the association to build additional housing. 
asked the Minister for Science, upon notice: 
What is the attitude of the Government to joining in an agreement with the United States of America to exchange scientific knowledge and technology in the solar energy field? 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the concern expressed by officers of the Postmaster-General's Department in respect of the working conditions provided in the District Engineer's office in South Grafton. 
Were members of the staff led to believe that a new office would be available by December 1973. 
What action has been taken to improve the office accommodation. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
How many trained nurses are there and what is the turnover rate of these nurses in each State in 
public hospitals, 
private hospitals, 
nursing homes and 
district nursing services. 
What is the present salary rate of trained nurses in each State in 
public hospitals, 
private hospitals, 
nursing homes and 
district nursing services. 
What is the average overtime worked by trained nurses in each State in 
public hospitals, 
private hospitals, 
) nursing homes and 
district nursing services. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Is it intended to accede to the Royal Australian Nursing Federation's request to grant, over three years, $3m as a fund for nurses obtaining tertiary qualifications, and to enhance nursing education programs. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
1 ) For what purpose has the Department used management consultant firms in the last 1 2 months. 
Which firms have been used. 
What was the total cost. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
How many officers or employees of his Department or of authorities under his control are employed on research and development work. 
Where are they employed. 
3 ) What is the nature of the work being undertaken. 
What is the total expenditure per annum in maintaining this research and development program. 
Who decides the nature of the programs or projects included in this research and development work. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Further to the answer to question No. 42 1 of 16 July 1974 in which he indicated that a national drug advisory council would soon be appointed, what will be the functions of the council. 
Will it be a statutory body. 
What will be its size and composition. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
What is the composition of the fleet of aircraft used by his Department, formerly referred to as the Department of Civil Aviation fleet. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Is there any airport in South Australia capable of receiving a 707 or 747 aircraft. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
What is the total amount that has been spent or will be spent on providing the new tarmac facilities at the Canberra Airport. 
What was the level of traffic in and out of the (a) Moorabbin and (b) Essendon Airports in each of the last four years. 
What is the nature of aircraft using both airports. 
I address my question to the Acting Prime Minister. How much more suffering will people have to go through, how much more unemployment will be created before the Government agrees to cease the credit squeeze? Why will the Government not increase the money supply? Why will it not bring down interest rates? Why will it not ease the liquidity crisis which is causing the private sector to lose confidence and causing it to reduce the supply of goods and reduce employment? Can the Government not realise that its mistakes are doing enormous social and economic harm? How can this Government declare it is the party that supports full employment, or supports low interest rates, or supports the development of this country? In the name of sanity, take the credit squeeze off now. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Will he provide a list of all formal committees, councils, etc., that have been established which enable him or officers of his Department to maintain contact with State Government Ministers or State Government officers. 
) When was each body established and by whom. 
What is the (a) composition and (b) function of each body. 
On what occasions has each body met in the last 2 years and for what purpose. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) What are the details of the advertising budget for both TAA and Qantas in the 12 month period December 1971 to December 1972 and the equivalent period Dcecember 1972 to Decenber 1973. 
What if the total value of all advertising placed by both companies in the periods, which advertising companies have been given contracts to place those advertisements and what is the value of each contract. 
What amounts have been placed with each individual (a) television station, (b) radio station, (c) daily newspaper, (d) weekly publication and (e) other journals and publications not included in the above categories during the same periods. 
asked the Minister for Services and Property, upon notice: 
Does his Department maintain a record of interdepartmental committees in which it participates. 
If not, then how is he aware of all the interdepartmental consultations in which his Department is involved through inter-departmental committees. 
Will he ensure that such a list is in future available to him. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Does his Department maintain a record of interdepartmental committees in which it participates. 
If not, then how is the Minister aware of all interdepartmental consultations in which his Department is involved through inter-departmental committees. 
Will he ensure that such a list is in future available to him. 
asked the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice: 
1 ) How many officers in his Department have been given some form of formal training in financial or auditing procedures used in Commonwealth Departments in the last 12 months. 
) What is the division and classification of these officers. 
How many of these officers were in operational, as distinct from financial and accounting positions in the Service. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) How many officers in his Department have been given some form of formal training in financial or auditing procedures used in Commonwealth departments in the last 12 months? 
) What is the division and classification of these officers? 
3 ) How many of these officers were in operational, as distinct from financial or accounting positions in the Service? 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the membership, timetable and charter of each of the interdepartmental committees, referred to in your answer to Question No. 1475 (Hansard, 13 December 1973, page 4787), which were established to examine the airport requirements of each capital city. 
Are there any interdepartmental committees operating which have the task of examining the requirement of each State for additional or upgraded airport facilities in regional areas. 
asked the Minister for Manufacturing Industry, upon notice: 
1 ) What progress has been made on the formation of an automotive advisory panel. 
Was it his intention to have the inaugural meeting in February 1974; if so, what prevented it from taking place at that time. 
asked the Minister for Services and Property, upon notice: 
Will he provide a list of all approvals he has given since 2 December 1 973 for Members of Parliament to use chartered flights, indicating the Member concerned, the members of his party, the intinerary of the flight and the date. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Does the Government intend to give approval to the abolition of two-class travel on Australian domestic airlines. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice. 
Did he promise the Administrative and Clerical Officer's Association on 3 May 1974 that he would introduce legislation to implement the recommendations of the Joint Council re action to protect the rights of employees suffering pecuniary loss following departmental restructuring. 
Has his attention been drawn to the concern of public servants at the restructuring undertaken by the Government in the absence of formal protection safeguards. 
Will, he now give an unqualified assurance that he will introduce such safeguards before any further restructuring occurs. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it intended to establish a fellowship scheme in each Department to enable academics to work during study leave with the Department. 
Which Departments have introduced the concept to date. 
What steps have been taken to arrange a reciprocal scheme for public servants to undertake fellowships on paid study leave at academic institutions. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Will he provide a list indicating the number of 4- cylinder, 6-cyhnder and 8-cylinder vehicles owned by Government Departments. 
Does the Government intend to reduce the proportion of 6-cylinder and 8-cylinder vehicles purchased. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
1 ) How many volunteer workers have offered to work in conjunction with, or within, each of the legal aid offices presently in operation. 
) In what field of welfare are they qualified or interested. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
What was (a) the total number of flights in and out of each airport in each capital city in each State and Territory; (b) the number of passengers arriving and departing from each of these airports; and (c) the capital expenditure of each airport in Australia in each of the last ten years. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Is it intended to appoint a nominee of the Royal Australian Nursing Federation to: 
the National Hospitals and Health Services Commission; 
the National Health and Medical Research Council. 
asked the Minister for Services and Property, upon notice: 
1 ) How many officers or employees of his Department, or of authorities under his control, are employed on research and development work. 
Where are they employed. 
What is the nature of the work being undertaken. 
What is the total expenditure per annum in maintaining this research and development program. 
Who decides the nature of the programs or projects included in this research and development work. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Which sections, branches, divisions and authorities which were part of the former Department of Supply have been transferred to the newly formed Department of Manufacturing Industry. 
Which sections, branches, divisions, and authorities which were part of the former Department of Supply have been transferred since its abolition to the Department of Defence. 
Is it intended that the Department of Manufacturing industry as presently composed, will continue in that form. 
If not, which sections, branches, divisions and authorities are subject to consideration with a view to being transferred to other departments. 
Will he ensure that any further restructuring that may be under consideration is announced as early as possible to remove uncertainties for officers and employees as to their future employment. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise, upon notice: 
Will the Minister provide a list of the inter-departmental committees, which have been established since 2 December 1972, of which officers of the Department of Customs and Excise are members. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise, upon notice: 
1 ) Does the Department of Customs and Excise maintain a record of inter-departmental committees in which it participates. 
If not, then how is the Minister aware of all the interdepartmental consultations in which his Department is involved through inter-departmental committees. 
Will the Minister ensure that such a list is in future available to him. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Department issued an Administrative Order and Instruction documenting the conclusions of the working party on hearing conservation. 
If so, will he incorporate a copy in Hansard with his reply to this question 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
When will the Government instigate the proposed National Inquiry into Cross Ownership of the Media. 
Will the inquiry be public 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) For what purpose has the Department used management consultant firms in the last 12 months. 
Which firms have been used. 
3 ) What was the total cost. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
1 ) For what purpose has the Department of the Media used management consultant firms in the last 12 months. 
Which firms have been used. 
3 ) What was the total cost. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) For what purpose has the Department used management consultant firms in the last 12 months. 
Which firms have been used. 
3 ) What was the total cost. 
asked the Minister for Science, upon notice: 
1 ) How many women have been appointed to senior positions in his Depertment since 2 December 1 972. 
Who are they. 
3 ) To what position has each been appointed, and what is the function of the position. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Does his Department maintain a record of interdepartmental committees in which it participates. 
If not, then how is he aware of all the interdepartmental consultations in which his Department is involved through inter-departmental committees. 
Will he ensure that such a list is in future available to him. 
asked the Minister for Science, upon notice: 
1 ) How many officers in his Department have been given some form of formal training in financial or auditing procedures used in Commonwealth Departments in the last 12 months. 
) What is the division and classification of these officers. 
How many of these officers were in operational, as distinct from financial or accounting, positions in the Service. 
asked the Minister for Science, upon notice: 
1 ) Are women able to join Australian expeditions to the Antarctic; if not why not. 
Does he intend to revise the expedition program so that women may be included in it. 
asked the Minister for Science, upon notice: 
Does the Government plan to prepare consumer advice booklets which detail purchasing features of various items of equipment. 
If so, what booklets will be produced. 
How will they be distributed and to whom. 
What will be the total cost of the project on an annual basis. 
asked the Minister for the Environment and Conservation, upon notice: 
With reference to the answer to question No. 548 (Hansard, 19 September 1974, page 1621) in which the Prime Minister indicated that the form and frequency of exercises in Government Departments in civil defence preparedness are as determined by individual Departments, on what dates in the last 1 8 months have exercises of this nature been conducted in his Department 
Which officers and employees took part. 
How many officers and employees took pan. 
4) What was the purpose of each of the exercises. 
Does he accept that this is an area where the Australian Government can give a lead to other employers. 
asked the Minister for Housing and Construction: 
1 ) Did the Department of Housing maintain a record of inter-departmental committees in which it participated. 
If not, then how was he aware of all the interdepartmental consultations in which that Department was involved through inter-departmental committees. 
Will he ensure that such a list is in future available to him. 
asked the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the Department of Works maintain a record of inter-departmental committees in which it participated. 
If not, then how was the Minister for Works aware of all the inter-departmental consultations in which that Department was involved through inter-departmental committees. 
asked the Minister for Manufacturing Industry, upon notice: 
How many officers in his Department have been given some form of formal training in financial or auditing procedures used in Commonwealth departments in the last 12 months. 
What is the division and classification of these officers. 
How many of these officers were in operational as distinct from financial or accounting, positions in the Service. 
asked the Minister for Manufacturing Industry, upon notice: 
How many officers in the Department of Supply had been given some form of formal training in financial or auditing procedures used in Commonwealth departments in the last 12 months. 
What was the division and classification of these officers. 
How many of these officers were in operational, as distinct from financial or accounting positions in the Service. 
asked the Minister for Northern Development, upon notice: 
1 ) Will he provide a list of all grants, to any organisation or individual, that are provided from moneys appropriated to his Department, or authorities under his control, to undertake research. 
To what bodies have such moneys been advanced, and what was or is the nature of the research being undertaken as a result of the grants in each of the last 3 years. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
1 ) Have instructions been given on behalf of the  Government to any marketing authority or authorities that special grants, concessions or terms of sale or trade should be granted to some countries. 
If so, to what marketing authority or authorites have such instructions been given and in what terms. 
To what countries are the special grants, concessions or terms of trade to apply. 
Have any such special grants, concessions and terms been granted; if so, to whom. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
Will he provide a list of the interdepartmental committees which have been established since 2 December 1972, of which officers of his Department are members. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
1 ) Does the Department of Agriculture maintain a record of interdepartmental committees in which it participates. 
If not, then how is the Minister aware of all the interdepartmental consultations in which his Department is involved through interdepartmental committees. 
Will the Minister ensure that such a list is in future available to him. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
What resource surveys of the fishing potential in Australia are to commence in 1 974. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
What resource surveys of the fishing potential in Australia have been commenced since 2 December, 1 972. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
1 ) For what purpose has the Department of Agriculture used management consultant firms in the last 1 2 months. 
) Which firms have been used. 
What was the total cost. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
1 ) How many officers or employees of his Department or of authorities under his control are employed on research and development work. 
Where are they employed. 
What is the nature of the work being undertaken. 
What is the total expenditure per annum in maintaining this research and development program. 
Who decides the nature of the programs or projects included in this research and development work. 
I address a question to the Prime Minister. Did the Permanent Head of the Department of Foreign Affairs brief journalists travelling on his aircraft between Honolulu and Suva last week concerning minerals and energy policy and the Prime Minister's attitude concerning the need for change? If the answer is yes, was such briefing authorised by the Prime Minister? Did he discuss the subject matter of the briefing with  Mr Renouf  prior to or subsequent to the briefing? Have some 6 journalists at the briefing formed a single conclusion in forecasting a major change direction in resources policy? Will the Prime Minister authorise  Mr Renouf  to brief all members of the Parliamentary Press Gallery? 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
1 ) How many women have been appointed to senior positions in the Department of the Media since 2 December 1972. 
Who are they. 
3 ) To what position has each been appointed, and what is the function of the position. 
asked the Minister for Manufacturing Industry, upon notice: 
1 ) How many women have been appointed to senior positions in his Department since 2 Decemer 1972. 
Who are they. 
To what position has each been appointed and what is the function of the position. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Did the Department of External Territories maintain a record of inter-departmental committees in which it participated. 
If not, then how was the Minister for External Territories aware of all the inter-departmental consultations in which his Department was involved through interdepartmental committees. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice; 
Does the Department of Foreign Affairs maintain a record of inter-departmental committees in which it participates. 
If not, then how is the Minister aware of all the interdepartmental consultations in which his Department is involved through inter-departmental committees. 
Will the Minister ensure that such a list is in future available to him. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
Does the Department of the Media maintain a record of inter-departmental committees in which it participates. 
If not, then how is the Minister aware of all the interdepartmental consultations in which his Department is involved through inter-departmental committees. 
Will the Minister ensure that such a list is in future available to him. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
Did he state on 26 October 1973 that there was an inter-departmental committee on publicity co-ordination. 
If so, what is the committee's (a) membership, (b) timetable and (c) charter. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
1 ) How many immigrants entered Australia in 1 973. 
How many of them had relatives already resident in Australia.  
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
With reference to his answer to question No. 892 (Hansard, 6 November 1973, page 2875), in which he indicated a figure of $139,000 for a full day care centre for 60 children aged 2 to 5, not including the cost of professional fees, land or equipment, will he provide an estimate of the cost of (a) professional fees, (b) land, (c) equipment and (d) renting cost per annum for this type of centre. 
asked the Minister for Services and Property, upon notice: 
What is the annual revenue foregone by municipalities in respect of rates on Commonwealth-owned land. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
On what dates has the standing committee of Australian and State Attorneys-General met since 2 December 1972. 
What matters have been discussed. 
) What resolutions have been passed. 
In particular, on what occasions has the protection of privacy been on the agenda or under discussion, and what conclusions were reached. 
Will the Attorney-General make available a copy of the report submitted by Professor W. L. Morrison on the law of privacy. 
What action has the Government taken, what action is it proposing to take, or what proposals are under discussion, in relation to protection of privacy. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs upon notice: 
With reference to the answer to question No. 548 (Hansard, 19 September 1974, page 1621) in which the Prime Minister indicated that the form and frequency of exercises in Government Departments in civil defence preparedness are as determined by individual Departments, on what dates in the last 18 months have exercises of this nature been conducted in the Department of Foreign Affairs. 
Which officers and employees took part. 
How many officers and employees took part. 
What was the purpose of each of the exercises. 
Does the Minister accept that this is an area where the Australian Government can give lead to other employers. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
Will the Minister provide a list of the advertising agencies used by each Government department or instrumentality indicating the percentage of foreign ownership of each firm. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Will the Minister list the International Conferences at which Australia has been officially represented since 2 December 1972. 
Will the Minister also indicate where and when such conferences have taken place and the number of people involved in the official Australian delegation on each occasion. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
What centres are subsidised under the recurrent grants provision of the Child Care Act, where are the centres located, what is the nature of the subsidy and how much does each centre get. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Minerals and Energy who I notice sits in the chair for the first time. If I may have the indulgence of the House I say to him congratulations on being able to sit there. I would also like to say that he ought to sit there proudly and not call on the Minister for Services and Property to ride shotgun with him. I do not think he will be of much help to him. 
-He is the rear gunner, is he? The way that the Minister for Services and Property is blushing he looks more like the poison taster. I ask the Minister for Minerals and Energy: Do he and his senior officials regularly consult with the Minister for Foreign Affairs and senior officials of the Department of Foreign Affairs on the development and implementation of the minerals and energy policy? If they do regularly consult, will the Minister specify the arrangements that he has? In particular, was the Department of Foreign Affairs consulted with respect to the international implications of the provisions of the Pipeline Authority Act 1973 and the Seas and Submerged Lands Act 1973? Does the Minister agree that because of the significance of resources policy to Australia's international relations, the closest possible level of consultation and confidence should be maintained between the Department of Foreign Affairs and his own Department? 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
The honourable member for Henty  (Mrs Child)  mentioned the distribution of funds to local government bodies under the Australian Grants Commission scheme. I understood her to say that the Government has distributed the money. Something which I think ought to be put without any sense of controversy is that the Government has not yet distributed the money, nor can it distribute the money until the legislation goes through this chamber and through the Senate. When the legislation has been passed the money would go to the local government bodies through the States. 
There is no sign of the legislation yet. The Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  who is sitting at the table, may give me some indication of when it is likely to come. I know,  Mr Chairman,  that you do not like interjections but I invite an interjection by the Minister in the form of giving information. I wonder whether the Minister could tell me when that legislation is likely to be coming through. 
I am told that the Minister will reply. Local governments have very great need for this money and the sooner they get it the better they will be able to conduct their affairs. Now they are able to proceed only on the expectation of receiving the money. That is not the matter about which I intend to talk. These estimates are for the Prime Minister's Department. As is well known, the Prime Minister's Department is a rather grab bag Department and embraces a large number of outrider organisations, including such diverse things as the Industries Assistance Commission and even the Children's Commission. I assume that the Children's Commission is to go into the Prime Minister's Department. 
I did not find anything in the Estimates about any site for a monument for the Prime Minister (  Mr Whitlam).  After the way he has been talking lately I would have thought it would have been a prime requirement of his Department to locate a suitable site for bis monument. It has been suggested that he wanted it to be in a holy place and when they examined the price he said: 'Well, that is far too high a price to pay. After all, I am only going to be there 3 days'. But the old story is one which has certainly got a ring of truth about it these days. I do not think the Government of Australia is going to be advantaged by these sorts of claims. What we want in Australia today is an examination of the real issues and we want real solutions so that the people of Australia can be advantaged and can achieve their aspirations. 
I am taking this opportunity to speak about the allocation of moneys for the arts. My intention is not to question the validity of the purchase of such paintings as 'Blue Poles' or 'Woman V, which as I understand it is closely identified with the tastes of the Director of the National Gallery,  Mr Mollison.  He has a great sense of art, but I do not know that he is the best man to send out on a purchasing mission.  I  think he may very well indentify the art, but we would be much better off with a rather harder-headed man doing the dealing. It was most disturbing to a great many people to read that the agent who sold us one of the works- I think it was de Kooning's worksaid that we could have got it cheaper if we had sent the right sort of person to negotiate the deal. However that is something which ought to be corrected. Nor will I not spend time criticising the purchases of tea sets supposedly on loan from the Crafts Board, but I will question the desired objective of an Australian arts policy. 
The total allocation in this Budget for the arts exceeds $31m and increase of more than $10m, almost 50 per cent. An amount of $7.7m has been allocated for the Australian National Gallery and collection, and $4.6m of this is for the acquisition of works for the National Gallery and the remainder for the construction of the National Gallery. An amount of $20m has been set aside for the funding of programs under the Australian Council for the Arts. The money involved is a very significant amount. I have supported the provision of that amount. At this point in the development of public patronage of the arts in Australia, it is of the utmost importance that Parliament clearly defines the objectives it feels the community wishes to see pursued. It should not be left to personal tastes, whether they be the tastes of a Minister or an expert appointed to conduct these affairs. It is for the Parliament expressing the public will to set down these guidelines. To question at this stage the way in which the funds are being distributed is a very necessary exercise, because it is only through wide-ranging public debate that those to whom falls the task of distributing the funds will be guided. I am quite sure that those people would welcome guidance. 
To date, the level of public debate has been disappointing and has tended to centre around personalities rather than the substance of what we expect of our creative talent in this area. It is not surprising that it should have been centering around not only personalities but also spectacular purchases- and spectacular purchases do not make a national policy in relation to the arts. The plain fact of the matter is that in many ways they are counter-productive because people see these spectacular purchases, and in the present environment they see them as unnecessary and they react to them. When they react to them they react adversely, and it means that the whole concept of a proper arts and cultural policy for Australian can be put back and can be injured. 
While excellence is a worthwhile objective, it is important that our overall objective is to encourage the creative spirit in all the art forms among all the Australian people. It is also important that the forum for this exchange of ideas be as wide as possible and not be centralised in a small way. There should be involvement of creators, the teachers, the critics and the community. We defeat our purpose if we concentrate the determination of our arts policy too narrowly and, therefore, there must be flexibility in the length of appointment of administrators to ensure that in appointing people to the various posts they have a sufficient tenure to allow them to make a worthwhile contribution. There is value in disseminating our culture overseas, but I feel that we must, in the first instance, show more concern for our domestic audience. 
It is important, as a major objective in any arts policy, to heighten the awareness of people, not only to other people's creative spirit but also to their own creative spirit. Attention must be directed towards involving children in all the arts expressions because, as T. S. Eliot has said, culture is basically the way of life of any community and if we are to increase the expectations and cultural aspirations of our people, we must involve the young. We must, therefore, provide finance so that the children of parents of all socio-economic levels are able to express themselves. We must involve the community, widen access and widen opportunities for free expression. One area in which it is important to do it is in the tertiary institutions. There is teeming energy and tremendous ability- almost ferment, one might say- in a cultural and creative sense in the universities and tertiary institutions. Funds must be channelled to promote student theatre and art creativity at the tertiary institutions. At the present time I know that many of the universities do not have adequate money for their creative art forms, and with the sort of allocation of money we have now it is very important that the universities, instead of going it alone on a shoestring, have better access to money. 
I note that there are developing in Australia very real and very capable expressions of art through the theatre. For instance, the Pram Factory in Melbourne has produced a play called 'The River Jordan' which has been written by a man without any formal literary training. He is a person who has a long criminal record and is at present serving part of a long sentence in a Queensland gaol. I cite this only to show the fact that this expression of creativity is able to come to light, and it shows the importance of community theatre. I believe this could be extended far more widely. In other words, we must maximise our access points into the funding system. Whether it be through theatre, literature, ballet or art or craft, we need to develop wider expressions of our culture. My favourite form of art expression is ballet, which I like to watch, not participate in. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation, upon notice: 
1 ) Will the Minister provide a list of all grants, to any organisation or individual, that are provided from moneys appropriated to his Department, or authorities under his control, to undertake research. 
To what bodies have such moneys been advanced, and what was or is the nature of the research being undertaken as a result of the grants in each of the last 3 years. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation, upon notice: 
1 ) How many women have been appointed to senior positions in the Department of Repatriation and Compensation since 2 December 1972. 
Who are they. 
3 ) To what position has each been appointed, and what is the function of the position. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Does his Department maintain a record of interdepartmental committees in which it participates. 
2 ) If not, then ho w is he aware of all the interdepartmental consultations in which his Department is involved through inter-departmental committees. 
Will he ensure that such a list is in future available to him. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation, upon notice: 
How many officers in the Department of Repatriation and Compensation have been given some form of formal training in financial or auditing procedures used in Commonwealth departments in the last 12 months. 
What is the division and classification of these officers. 
How many of these officers were in operational, as distinct from financial or accounting, positions in the Service. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation, upon notice: 
Further to the answer to Question No. 1 149 of 22 October 1 973 in which it was indicated that it was not then possible to introduce regulations requiring authorities under the Repatriation Act to give reasons for their decision on claims and appeals, (a) which authorities can now do so and (b) which authorities cannot do so, and when will they be able to. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
1 ) How many women have volunteered to be trained as home tutors assisting migrant women with the national language? 
How many migrant women are receiving such assistance in each State? 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
How many (a) women and (b) men have sat as union representatives on selection panels, tribunals and other appeal boards established under the Public Service Act in the last 12 months. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the present Minister for Labor and Immigration say, with the authority of the present Prime Minister, on 17 September 1972, that a Labor Government would adopt the 1970 submission of the Council of Commonwealth Public Service Organisations to repeal sub-regulation 34(a) and regulation 35 of the Public Service Regulations and to substitute a regulation recording it as a disciplinary offence for an officer to disclose or make use of information gained by him by reason of his office. 
2 ) If so, has this been done; if not, why not. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
How many public servants travelled overseas on official business during 1973. 
What was the total cost of such travel. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
With reference to the answer to question No. 548 (Hansard, 19 September 1974, page 162 1 ) in which he indicated that the form and frequency of exercises in Government Departments in civil defence preparedness are as determined by individual Departments, on what dates in the last 18 months have exercises in this nature been conducted in his Department 
) Which officers and employees took pan. 
How many officers and employees took pan. 
What was the purpose of each of the exercises. 
Does he accept that this is an area where the Australian Government can give a lead to other employers. 
asked the Minister for Manufacturing Industry, upon notice: 
How many staff are rostered for duty each day of the week to receive passenger car bookings in each capital city. 
What is the comparative work load on each person in each state. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the Maternity Leave (Australian Government Employees) Act does not make adequate provision for women seeking part-time employment in the Public Service at the conclusion of maternity leave. 
Was it his intention that women who seek such parttime employment and who previously held permanent positions will be required to resign or to forego their permanency and accept temporary employment. 
If not, does he intend to take steps to correct the situation; if so, how and when. 
asked the Minister for Health,  upon notice: 
1 ) What is the ratio of dentists to population in each State and Territory in Australia. 
) What is considered to be a satisfactory level. 
What is the projected enrolmentratioindentistry courses in Australia in the next10 years. 
What is the projected ratio of dentists to population in the next 10 years. 
asked the Minister for Manufacturing Industry, upon notice: 
For what purpose has the Department used management consultant firms in the last 12 months. 
) Which firms have been used. 
What was the total cost. 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
With reference to the answer to question No. 548 (Hansard, 19 September 1974, page 1621) in which the Prime Minister indicated that the form and frequency of exercises in Government Departments in civil defence preparedness are as determined by individual Departments, on what dates in the last 1 8 months have exercises of this nature been conducted in his Department. 
Which officers and employees took part. 
3 ) How many officers and employees took pan. 
What was the purpose of each of the exercises. 
Does he accept that this is an area where the Australian Government can give a lead to other employers. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Will the Minister provide a list of all formal committees, councils, etc., that have been established which enable him or officers of his Department to maintain contact with State Government Ministers or State Government officers. 
When was each body established and by whom. 
What is the (a) composition and (b) function of each body. 
On what occasions has each body met in the last 2 years and for what purpose. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
With reference to the Minister's answer to question No. 967 of 25 September 1973 concerning details which have been made available to the Government on the trials in Yugoslavia of 8 men holding Australian citizenship, has the translation of the material referred to now been completed. 
If so, will the Minister now make those records available to the Parliament; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
In relation to the reference by the Prime Minister at his press conference on 30 January 1973 to an interdepartmental committee dealing with export incentives, what is the committee's (a) membership, (b) timetable and (c) charter. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
In relation to the reference by the Prime Minister in a press conference on 30 January 1973 to an interdepartmental committee to consider the general question of export credits, what is the committee's (a) membership, (b) timetable and (c) chaner. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
How many officers in the Department of the Media have been given some form of formal training in financial or auditing procedures used in Commonwealth departments in the last 12 months. 
What is the division and classification of these officers. 
How many of these officers were in operational, as distinct from financial or accounting, positions in the Service. 
asked the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice: 
When will the Government increase the loan limit on defence service homes loans from $12,000 to $15,000 as promised. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
With reference to the answer to question No. 548 (Hansard, 19 September 1974, page 1621) in which the Prime Minister indicated that the form and frequency of exercises in Government Departments in civil defence preparedness are as determined by individual Departments, on what dates in the last 1 8 months have exercises of this nature been conducted in his Department. 
Which officers and employees took part. 
How many officers and employers took part. 
What was the purpose of each of the exercises. 
Does he accept that this is an area where the Australian Government can give a lead to other employers. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Has Australia joined the International Union for the Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources. 
If so, what are the aims of the Union, when was it first established, and by whom. 
Who are the other members. 
What action has Australia taken in the Union since joining. 
I ask the Prime Minister whether he made these public statements yesterday: 
We will never resort to the deliberate creation of mass unemployment as a means of checking inflation. One man needlessly unemployed is one man too many. Whenever action is needed you will get prompt, positive action. 
Is the Prime Minister the only person left in Australia who does not know that the unemployment figure is now 159,000 on a seasonally adjusted basis and including school leavers? Is he aware that there are 40,000 more unemployed now than ever occurred under LiberalCountry Party governments? Does he agree with the statements by  Mr Egerton  that the true unemployed figure is 200,000?  Mr Egerton  is, after all, a significant trade union leader. Has the Minister for Labor and Immigration informed the Prime Minister that the Department of Labor and Immigration forecasts that there will be 280,000 unemployed? Did the Prime Minister say on 2 July that unemployment would not rise? In view of all these things, when will the Prime Minister institute action rather than using words which do not reflect the facts? 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. I draw the attention of the Prime Minister to the Indonesian Embassy newsletter of 31 July 1974, No. 20 of 1974, and I quote from page 2. The heading reads 'NuclearArmaments Plan means "Armament of Peace" *. This text follows: 
Indonesia's planned possession of nuclear armaments in 1985 was described in Djakarta on August 2 as 'armament of peace'. The Foreign Minister,  Mr Adam  Malik, said the term might be new, but 'armament of peace' stood for nuclear energy for peaceful purposes.  Mr Malik  was commenting on a statement by State Minister for Research Professor Soemitro, while in Australia recently, that Indonesia might possess nuclear armaments in 1985. 
Is it a fact that while Indonesia has signed, it has not ratified, the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty? In view of the Labor Government's ratification of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, has the Prime Minister sought, during his visits to Indonesia and particularly during his recent talks with President Suharto, any guarantee from the Indonesian Government that it will ratify the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty and, secondly, give a clear undertaking that it will not develop nuclear weapons? If he has not sought such a guarantee, will he immediately do so? 
asked the Minister for Manufacturing Industry, upon notice: 
Will he provide a list of all grants, to any organisation or individual, that are provided from moneys appropriated to his Department, or authorities under his control, to undertake research. 
To what bodies have such moneys been advanced, and what was or is the nature of the research being undertaken as a result of the grants in each of the last 3 years. 
asked the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, upon notice: 
Can he say what (a) physical education and (b) national fitness programs have been undertaken with (i) Australian Government (ii) State Government and (iii) local government financial support. 
If so, what is the extent of the financial support in each case in terms of (a) buildings, (b) equipment and (c) staff expenditure. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the Department of the Army maintain a record of inter-departmental committees in which it participated. 
If not, then how was he aware of all the interdepartmental consultations in which that Department was involved through inter-departmental committees. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the Department of Air maintain a record of interdepartmental committees in which it participated. 
If not, then how as he aware of all the interdepartmental consultations in which that Department was involved through inter-departmental committees. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Does his Department maintain a record of interdepartmental committees in which it participates. 
If not, then how is he aware of all the interdepartmental consultations in which his Department is involved through inter-departmental committees. 
Will he ensure that such a list is in future available to him. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1) Did the Department of the Navy maintain a record of inter-departmental committees in which it participated. 
If not, then how was he aware of all the interdepartmental consultations in which that Department was involved through inter-departmental committees. 
asked the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice: 
Does his Department maintain a record of interdepartmental committees in which it participates. 
If not, then how is he aware of all the interdepartmental consultations in which his Department is involved through interdepartmental committees. 
Will he ensure that such a list is in future available to him. 
asked the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, upon notice: 
1 ) When will he name the composition of the National Sports Council. 
When will it begin to function. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Under the Australian Assistance Plan is it intended that each region established within each State for the purpose of the Plan will receive $2 per head of population per year. 
asked the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice: 
For what purpose has the Department used management consultant firms in the last 12 months. 
Which firms have been used. 
) What was the total cost. 
asked the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, upon notice: 
1) For what purpose has the Department used management consultant firms in the last 12 months. 
Which firms have been used. 
What was the total cost. 
asked the Minister for Manufacturing Industry, upon notice: 
1 ) How many officers or employees of his Department or of authorities under his control are employed on research and development work. 
Where are they employed. 
What is the nature of the work being undertaken. 
What is the total expenditure per annum in maintaining this research and development work. 
Who decides the nature of the programs or projects included in this research and development work. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
With reference to the answer to question No. 548 (Hansard, 19 September 1974, page 1621) in which the Prime Minister indicated that the form and frequency of exercises in Government Departments in civil defence preparedness are as determined by individual Departments, on what dates in the last 18 months have exercises of this nature been conducted in the Department of Agriculture. 
Which officers and employees took part. 
How many officers and employees took part. 
What was the purpose of each of the exercises. 
Does the Minister accept that this is an area where the Australian Government can give a lead to other employers. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
What actions have been taken by the Government to develop further the ANZUS Treaty as an instrument for (a) justice, (b) peace, (c) political advancement, (d) social advancement and (e) economic advancement in the Pacific area since 2 December 1972. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
What actions have been taken by the Government to establish agreements to ensure the peaceful use of space for communications and scientific advance since 2 December 1972. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
To which countries have representations been made by the Government to end the presence of military forces in countries other than those forces' own countries since 2 December 1972. 
On what date and where did such representations take place. 
Who represented the Australian Government. 
What has been the outcome in each case. 
What further action is proposed. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Has agreement been reached with the Soviet Union for the conduct of joint research programs with Australia. 
If so, in what fields are these programs to be conducted. 
When was agreement reached, and by whom. 
What is the form of the agreement. 
When will these programs commence. 
Where will any joint research be conducted. 
Who will be involved in these programs. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Australian Government had any contacts with or held any discussions or consultations with the Portuguese Government or its representatives on the future of Portuguese Timor. 
If so, when and where were these held. 
) What was the outcome. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Has the United Nations asked or suggested since the recent hostilities in Cyprus that Australia send a larger contingent of police to Cyprus. 
) If so what was the Government 's reaction. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
How many (a) resignations from, (b) transfers from, and (c) promotions out of the Department of Defence were there during the period 2 December 1972 to 2 December 1973 at the following classifications: (i) Class 9, (ii) Class 10, (iii) Class 1 1, (iv) Level 1, (v) Level 2, and (vi) Level 3. 
How many unfilled vacancies are there in the Department of Defence at each of these classifications at present. 
-Does the Prime Minister recall that when he was the Leader of the Opposition he very frequently and, I believe, correctly took a point whenever a statement of policy was made by the Government, either outside the House or in answer to a question, that the statement should be made in such a way that the matter could be debated? Will he be prepared to give an undertaking that he will not allow to flow either of the  2  consequences which have flowed today? A statement of policy has been made. The first consequence of that is that it seems to indicate a lack of confidence on the part of the Government, to show that it is not prepared to allow the matter to be debated and that it wishes to take the opportunity of getting away with the statement of policy without it being tested in any way. The second consequence is that an extraordinary amount of time is taken up at question time which contributes to the conduct of the House being difficult for you,  Mr Speaker,  to control. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
Will the Minister provide a list of all formal committees, councils, etc. that have been established which enable him or officers of his Department to maintain contact with State Government Ministers or State Government officers. 
When was each body established and by whom. 
What is the (a) composition and (b) function of each body. 
On what occasions has each body met in the last 2 years and for what purpose. 
asked the Special Minister of State, upon notice: 
. How many women have been appointed to senior positions in his Department since 2 December 1 972. 
Who are they. 
To what position has each been appointed, and what is the function of the position. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation, upon notice: 
1 ) Does the Department of Repatriation and Compensation maintain a record of inter-departmental committees in which it participates, 
If not, then how is the Minister aware of all the interdepartmental consultations in which his Department is involved through inter-departmental committees. 
Will the Minister ensure that such a list is in future available to him.  were circulated: 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Has the Government explored employment opportunites for women wishing to work part-time. 
If so, what form has this exploration taken, and what was the result. 
asked the Special Minister of State, upon notice: 
1 ) How many officers in his Department have been given some form of formal training in financial or auditing procedures used in Commonwealth departments in the last 12 months. 
What is the division and classification of these officers. 
How many of these officers were in operational, as distinct from financial or accounting, positions in the Service. 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. Will the honourable gentleman assure the House that he does not intend to abolish the deductibility of gifts for income tax purposes, as was recommended in the report of the Coombs Task Force? In particular, will he assure the House that he does not intend to abolish the provisions relating to the deductibility of donations for buildings at schools, universities and colleges and that he does not intend to abolish the deductibility of gifts to the great majority of voluntary charitable organisations in the country? 
-Did the Prime Minister say at a Press conference on Tuesday that no fresh economic measures in the form of a mini Budget would be introduced before Christmas? Did the  Deputy  Prime Minister state yesterday that there will in fact be new economic measures introduced before Christmas- a clear contradiction of each other? Has  Mr Hawke  complained that the Labor Government has abondoned its commitment to full employment? Has  Mr Hawke  issued a statement that the Government would not be returned to office because it has lost the confidence of the Australian people and has he followed this up by issuing a public ultimatum to the Government to take action on the economy before next week? In the face of this ultimatum from  Mr Hawke,  is the Leader of the 
Government- the Prime Minister of the countryprepared to be stood over by the  president  of the trade union movement? Is this not another reason for the people to regard the Government as not having any capacity whatever for a precise economic policy to get us out of the difficulties we now have? 
1 ask the Deputy Prime Minister: Is it true that he intends going overseas shortly for the purpose of stimulating an inflow of capital into Australia- in other words that he is on a search mission to find capital? From what sources does he intend to attempt to find the capital? Is it to be short term Arab high interest money? 
On what conditions as to equity will the money be allowed into the country? Who does he propose should be the borrowers of the money? Does he not understand that there would be plenty of capital inflow into Australia if his Government would only state as its policy in clear and precise terms that the Government welcomes the inflow of capital into 
Australia on a partnership basis to protect Australian equity as far as possible, that Australians should have control as soon as possible and majority equity holding in the future but until such statement is made, there is no prospect of capital inflow into Australia? 
-My question is addressed to the  Deputy  Prime Minister. Will he say here and now and without qualification that the remaining provision about the variable deposit requirement which still exists and the limitations on the inflow of capital for under 2 years will be immediately removed- that they are not compatible in any way with his search for capital inflow into Australia? 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) Will he provide a list of all grants, to any organisation or individual, that are provided from moneys appropriated to his Department, or authorities under his control, to undertake research. 
To what bodies have such moneys been advanced, and what was or is the nature of the research being undertaken as a result of the grants in each of the last 3 years. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) Will he provide a list of all grants, to any organisation or individual, that are provided from moneys appropriated to his Department, or authorities under his control, to undertake research. 
To what bodies have such moneys been advanced, and what was or is the nature of the research being undertaken as a result of the grants in each of the last 3 years. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation, upon notice: 
1 ) For what purpose has the Department of Repatriation and Compensation used management consultant firms in the last 12 months. 
Which firms have been used. 
3 ) What was the total cost. 
asked the Special Minister of State, upon notice: 
1 ) How many officers or employees of his Department or of authorities under his control are employed on research and development work. 
Where are they employed. 
What is the nature of the work being undertaken. 
What is the total expenditure per annum in maintaining this research and development program. 
Who decides the nature of the programs or projects included in this research and development work. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation, upon notice: 
1  ) How many officers or employees of the Department of Repatriation and Compensation or of authorities under the Minister's control are employed on research and development work. 
Where are they employed. 
3 ) What is the nature of the work being undertaken. 
What is the total expenditure per annum in maintaining this research and development program. 
Who decides the nature of the programs or projects included in this research and development work.  
asked the Special Minister of State the following question, upon notice: 
With reference to the answer to question No. 548 (Hansard, 19 September 1974, page 1621), in which the Prime Minister indicated that the form and frequency of exercises in Government Departments in civil defence preparedness are as determined by individual Departments, on what dates in the last 1 8 months have exercises of this nature been conducted in his Department. 
Which officers and employees took part. 
How many officers and employees took part. 
What was the purpose of each of the exercises. 
Does he accept that this is an area where the Australian Government can give a lead to other employers. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) How many officers or employees of his Department or of authorities under his control are employed on research and development work. 
Where are they employed. 
3 ) What is the nature of the work being undertaken. 
What is the total expenditure per annum in maintaining this research and development program. 
Who decides the nature of the program or projects included in this research and development work. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Will the Attorney-General provide a list of all grants, to any organisation or individual, that are provided from moneys appropriated to his Department, or authorities under his control, to undertake research. 
To what bodies have such monies been advanced and what was or is the nature of the research undertaken as a result of the grants in each of the last 3 years. 
asked the Minister for Manufacturing Industry, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the Department of Supply maintain a record of inter-departmental committees in which it participated. 
If not, then how was the Minister for Supply aware of all the inter-departmental consultations in which his Department was involved through inter-departmental committees. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Did he state on 16 July 1974 that, when in Tokyo in October 1973, he asked the Australian Ambassador to convey to the Cuban Ambassador in Tokyo Australia's willingness to establish diplomatic or consular relations with Cuba. 
Did he also say at that time that he was not sure whether arrangements had been finalised but that he would obtain details. 
If so, did he obtain these details; if so, what are they. 
What further discussions have been held concerning relations between Australia and Cuba. 
5 ) When and where were these discussions held, and who was involved in each case. 
I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent me moving the following motion: 
The House is of the opinion that the Minister for Minerals and Energy should make a statement orally so that the House, instead of merely having presented to it a paper on the matter of Northern Territory uranium, should be able to debate it. 
I move: 
1 ) That a select Committee be appointed: 
to inquire into the incidence of all forms of specific learning difficulties among Australian children and adults; 
to examine measures that are being taken at the present time to overcome such difficulties; 
to report on the success that present measures are having in alleviating specific learning difficulties; 
to examine the awareness of specific learning difficulties among the community generally and among the medical, health, teaching and social welfare professions in particular; 
to examine the extent to which problems associated with the incidence of specific learning difficulties are being researched in Australia at the present time; 
to examine the social, emotional and other handicaps that individuals with specific learning difficulties suffer; 
to recommend measures that can be taken to heighten community awareness of specific learning difficulties, and 
to recommend action that can be taken by the Federal Government or by the Federal Government in co-operation with State and local governments as well as voluntary organisations to alleviate the difficulties and in particular to examine the need for wide-spread screenings of young children to detect the existence of specific learning symptoms so that adequate remedial programs can be recommended from an early age. 
That the committee recognise the responsibility of the States in these matters and seek their co-operation in all relevant aspects. 
That the committee consist of six Members, three to be nominated by the Prime Minister, two to be nominated by the Leader of the Opposition and one to be nominated by the Leader of the Australian Country Party 
That the members of the committee hold office as a committee until the House of Representatives expires by dissolution or effluxion of time. 
That the committee have power to appoint subcommittees consisting of three or more of its members, and refer to any such sub-committee any matters which the committee is empowered to examine. 
That four members of the committee constitute a quorum of the committee, and a majority of the members of a sub-committee constitute a quorum of that sub-committee. 
That the committee or any sub-committee have power to send for persons, papers and records, to move from place to place, and to sit during any recess. 
That the committee or any sub-committee have power to authorise publication of any evidence given before it and any document presented to it. 
That the committee be provided with all necessary staff, facilities and resources and have power, with the approval of the  Speaker,  to appoint persons with specialist knowledge for the purposes of the committee. 
10) That the committee report as soon as possible and that any member of the committee have power to add a protest or dissent to any report. 
That the foregoing provisions of this resolution, so far as they are inconsistent with the standing orders, have effect notwithstanding anything contained in the standing orders. 
What we are looking for is a joint committee of members from both sides of the House to look into this extremely important matter. I have been concerned about this problem for very many years. It is a hidden problem. It is a problem which impacts very seriously on individuals and reduces their capacity to be happy, to be successful and to contribute to the community. Not only that, it has a very serious impact on social relationships of the individual with his family, brothers and sisters or parents, and with those people with whom he associates. It can have a very serious impact upon an individual in his dealings with others in the community. 
Thinking of the matter, I came to the conclusion that it should be, in a very real sense, the subject for a national purpose effort and that that national purpose would not be assisted if the inquiry were to be conducted on a political base. If it were to be conducted on a political base all that was likely to happen was that attitudes may get frozen in and there would not be the freedom to move. 
The problem concerns a large number of Australians who have been described as the last large group of neglected and misunderstood handicapped children and adults. I make the point that a child who is handicapped in the way that I am speaking of and who emerges from the school system does not suddenly have a magic wand waved over him so that the problem is cured, and you have an adult without the problem. If the problem exists in childhood it will exist in adulthood. 
The consequences for the individuals who are afflicted with specific learning difficulties are very great. This is one manifestation of a general disorder which is grouped under the title of minimal brain dysfunction. 
Minimal brain dysfunction is the term used in relation to children or adults of near average, average or above average intelligence- some with an extremely high intelligence rating- who have certain learning and/or behavioural disabilities ranging from mild to severe, which are associated with deviations of function of the central nervous system. These deviations can manifest themselves by various combinations of impairment in perception, language, memory, control of attention, conceptualisation, impulse or motor function. The most commonly affected academic skills are reading, arithmetic, spelling and writing. It is some of these difficulties that the motion before the House specifically refers to. 
I want to emphasise 2 points in speaking of an impairment that may be due to minimal brain dysfunction. It is absolutely necessary to recognise the variation in the extent of brain dysfunction. There are many people in the community who have very high intelligence, who attain high academic qualifications and who are accepted in  the community on any other ground as being totally normal, but when they are assessed on communication and their ability to use language it is said of them that they lack judgment. The absence of so-called judgment is only an absence of the handling of language, of the conceptualisation of their thoughts. Having said that of them, we then regard them as being inferior because they lack judgment. The motion addresses itself to what many of us regard as totally normal people in the community. There are some who, because of the extent of their problem, are not regarded as normal; but a very great number of people are so regarded. 
The other point I want to emphasise is that I have purposely cast the terms of reference of the proposed committee wide enough to encompass those students at school who have worked hard, attended good schools- I am not using the word 'good' in any sense of difference between the system of private or public schools or anything of that kind- and have had good teachers but who, when they have reached the end of their education at 16, 17 or even older, are still in need of basic remedial teaching so that they can read and write properly. Notwithstanding that the education system is good or that the teachers are good there are still children emerging from the system with an incapacity in language, in reading or writing or expressing. In school they have been ashamed of their disability. They have hidden it and the system has been unable to detect it. What I am really asking in this motion is how it is that our education system is able to operate and let so many people pass through its complete system without achieving the very basic skills in language. We must address ourselves specifically to this dilemma as a national and social purpose. 
The result of this tragic situation is that we have thousands of individuals in the community who, despite their most desperate attempts and despite above average intelligence, do not achieve the progress that their potential would indicate they should. The consequence for the nation is that as a society we under-achieve. We have human resources available that are not being used. Specific learning difficulties are widespread. 
It has been estimated that 1 5 per cent to 20 per cent of the Australian school population suffer from them. Despite their widespread nature, the community awareness of them in Australia is minimal. The overriding purpose of this motion and the consequent establishment of a select committee is to heighten community awareness of dyslexia and specific learning difficulties among the community generally 
The community understands blindness and deafness. We recognise the difficulties physically and mentally handicapped children face. Polio, tetanus, diphtheria are common household words; parents recognise these disabilities and ensure that their children are immunised against them. We aU accept colourblindness as a common condition which has no stigma attached to it. How many in the community know the term 'dyslexia'? Do we understand the significance and consequence of word-blindness? How many are able to recognise it in their children? How many know how to seek attention for it, even if they are aware of it? 
I shall mention some recent surveys which have been undertaken in Australia which emphasise the magnitude of the problem we have in Australia. The Boronia High School Advisory Centre in Victoria surveyed more than 2,600 students in first and second forms in 12 eastern suburbs high schools in Victoria. The result showed that 45.7 per cent of those tested needed remedial specialist teaching in reading if they were to profit from high school work, and 25 per cent were found to read so badly as to be classified as functionally illiterate. A survey by Macquarie University in New South Wales suggests that 1 12,000 adults over the age of 16 years in the Sydney metropolitan area alone are functionally illiterate; that is, when tested they are unable to read even simple directions from a telephone directory. 
The consequences of this situation are evident. We are allowing a significant number of children to progress right through the education system without learning to use what is a solely human perquisite- our language. They have suffered years at school being branded as lazy, stupid, emotionally disturbed or unintelligent. The intelligent ones have been called lazy. The less intelligent ones have been called mentally handicapped and aU sorts of things. In many cases the parents have not understood them. This has created social problems that need not have occurred and ought not to have occurred. Others have hidden their problem and because of high IQ remain undetected right throughout adulthood. Their ability to learn any subject at school has been greatly impaired. The learning process has been a nightmare for them. Many will have suffered as a consequence severe emotional distress. They see themselves as misfits. 
They often do not know what their problem is and are not given any assistance in overcoming it. Many of them see society as hostile to them. Because of their language barrier and their communication problem they face a restricted life. 
Opportunities for them are curtailed in the same way as a physical or mental handicap curtails the achievements of others in the community. But in most of the cases involving the people that I am speaking about there is no sympathy from the community or those who are associated with them and very frequently there is hostility towards them. They are ordinary Australians. They often have no physical disability and ironically, because their disability is not evident, it remains undetected and uncorrected. They can never achieve their true potential. It is my very real wish that all people emerging from the education system should have an education that matches their intellectual capacity. 
I have much to say on this subject but there is a short time in which to say it so I will therefore tend to skip some things. The success of these people in obtaining employment initially can be marred by an inability to carry out successfully the completion of an application form. They make mistakes in filling out the application form and the potential employer prefers somebody else. But this may be due just to word blindness -an incapacity to write the words properly. Their ability to drive a car with safety is impaired because a very frequent disability in a person with specific learning difficulties is a confusion between 'right' and 'left'. Many of them will be unable to read road signs. Many of them will find public transport difficult because they cannot understand the destination signs. Many will suffer accidents in factories because they cannot read the warning notices. Many will be among the juvenile deliquents committed to institutions or among criminals sentenced to prison, destined to serve their terms without anyone recognising that the major cause of their behaviour is the affliction of a specific learning disability which develops an emotional disturbance which is exaggerated and multiplied as time goes on. 
Overseas studies repeatedly demonstrate the very high correlation between juvenile deliquency and specific learning difficulties. For example,  Dr Chester  Poremba of the Colorado Children 's Hospital has found in his studies that 90.4 per cent of children who had become deliquents had suffered learning fatigue and learning failure. The millions of dollars that have been poured into the rehabilitation of young people who have become anti-social has been largely wasted. Similarly, there is a high correlation between disturbed behaviour and specific learning disability. As an instance, 50 per cent of children referred for psychiatric treatment to the Victorian School Medical Service have had diagnosed a specific learning disability as the main cause of their problem. A great deal of investigation of this problem has been undertaken in the United States and other overseas countries, but in Australia we have failed sufficiently to tackle the problem. In Government we funded an Australianwide workshop organised by the Specific Learning Difficulties Associations in Australia, which are known as SPELD. The present Minister for Education,  Mr Beazley,  provided funds for members of SPELD to attend the 1 1th International Conference on Learning Difficulties in Texas in 1974. I know that many Ministers are currently examining proposals that have been referred to them by SPELD. 
The history of this motion is that it is the result of an agreement between myself and the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  that we should combine in a co-operative effort to begin a major national program to attack the problem. As I said at the outset, I have been concerned for a long time about this matter. I approached the Prime Minister and said: 'Let us not make this a political issue on which our attitudes can become frozen. Let us make it a national purpose which we can all join in and tackle through a joint committee of the House. ' I want to say that I was very grateful that when I raised the matter with the Prime Minister he, without any hesitation at all, immediately accepted the need for such a proposal and that it should be regarded as a national purpose in no way influenced by politics. If I may say so, this necessarily means that none of us will try to make political capital out of it. If we pursue this in the right way it will be understood on both sides of the House to be with a total commitment. I notice the honourable member for Casey smiling. 
-What has been said by the honourable member for Casey disappoints me very greatly. I am not going to respond further to it. I am going to continue with my purpose which is that there should be no political advantage taken by anybody. I would hope that if the honourable gentleman should serve on this committee he will come to it without that attitude of mind. I would prefer to forget that the comment was made. I ask leave to incorporate in Hansard the letter which was written to the Prime Minister arising out of the discussion which I had with him. 
-That letter makes it clear that this proposal should be solely on the basis of a non-political approach. The final point I want to make is to mention the work that has been undertaken in Australia by the Specific Learning Difficulties Associations in Australia. All honourable members are aware of the remarkable work that they have been undertaking. I should like to place on record my personal gratitude, as an Australian, to SPELD for its magnificent work and its untiring and regretfully largely unrewarded efforts over the last 6 or 7 years. It has undertaken a most difficult task and one that governments generally have failed to do but should have done. Whether it was the Government of which I was a member or whether it be the present Government, the job should have been done. Now is the time for it to be done and to express ourselves as members of the Parliament to be committed to this national purpose. I express my personal regret that we have not followed more swiftly and more positively the lead that has been given by people associated with SPELD. I am confident that the passing of this motion will represent a commitment by each member of the House to SPELD, but more particularly a commitment by each member of this House to all Australian children and adults who have suffered from a specific learning difficulty, that we will not cease in our efforts until there is a marked improvement in the alarming and, I must confess, depressing picture of which I have been speaking today. 
Last Wednesday I met  Mrs Stewart,  the Secretary of the Australian Associations of SPELD, and  Mrs  Dibden  the South Australian Secretary. (Extension of time granted.) 
I thank the House. I will detain honourable members for less than a minute. I indicated to them that as a first step I would examine the possibility of having a select committee  established.  I had a discussion with the Prime Minister that very afternoon. He agreed with me- and I emphasise he totally and willingly did so without any hesitation- that this matter was of significant national importance and that the establishment of a committee along the  lines  referred to in the motion I have moved today would be an appropriate immediate course of action. I express now my appreciation of the Prime Minister's cooperation. As a result of that meeting I wrote to  the Prime Minister a letter which I was given leave earlier in my speech to incorporate in Hansard. I understand that for reasons of duty the Prime Minister is unable to speak in this debate and his place will be taken by the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Mathews).  I ask the honourable member to direct the Prime Minister's attention to what I have had to say today and also to express to him my appreciation for his co-operation. 
asked the Minister for Services and Property, upon notice: 
1 ) Will he provide a list of all formal committees, councils, etc., that have been established which enable him or officers of his Department to maintain contact with State Government Ministers or State Government officers. 
When was each body established and by whom. 
What is the (a) composition and (b) function of each body. 
On what occasions has each body met in the last 2 years and for what purpose. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
1 ) Will the Minister provide a list of all grants, to any organisation or individual, that are provided from moneys appropriated to his Department, or authorities under his control, to undertake research. 
To what bodies have such moneys been advanced, and what was or is the nature of the research being undertaken as a result of the grants in each of the last 3 years. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
With reference to the answer to question No. 1490 (Hansard, 13 December 1973, page 4788) in which it was indicated that the Postmaster-General's Department maintains a record of inter-departmental committees in which it participates, does the list include (a) ad hoc and (b) standing committees. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
When did the Postmaster-General's Department first begin to maintain a list of inter-departmental committees in which it participates. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
How many officers or employees of the PostmasterGeneral's Department or of authorities under the Postmaster-General's control are employed on research and development work. 
Where are they employed. 
3 ) What is the nature of the work being undertaken. 
What is the total expenditure per annum in maintaining this research and development program. 
Who decides the nature of the programs or projects included in this research and development work. 
asked the Minister for Services and Property, upon notice: 
How many Fire Brigade Stations are there in each State and Territory in Australia. 
What facilities does the Post Office provide to fire brigades in return for protection, at no charge, of Government properties. 
How many bush fire brigades are there in Australia and where are they located. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Did the present Minister for Labor and Immigration state on 17 September 1972, with the authority of the present Prime Minister, that a Labor Government would adopt submissions made by the Council of Public Service Organisations for an amendment to the Public Service Regulations to provide that, where any person is refused employment in the Australian Public Service, the reason for rejection should be given to the person concerned. 
How many people have been refused employment in the Australian Public Service since 2 December 1972. 
Has a reason been given to each person for his or her rejection. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
Will he provide a list of all formal committees, councils, etc., that have been established which enable him or officers of his Department to maintain contact with State Government Ministers or State Government officers. 
When was each body established and by whom. 
What is the (a) composition and (b) function of each body. 
On what occasions has each body met in the last 2 years and for what purpose. 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
1 ) Will he provide a list of all formal committees, councils, etc., that have been established which enable him or officers of his Department to maintain contact with State Government Ministers or State Government officers. 
) When was each body established and by whom. 
What is the (a) composition and (b) function of each body. 
On what occasions has each body met in the last 2 years and for what purpose. 
asked the Minister for Northern Development, upon notice: 
Will he provide a list of all formal committees, councils, etc., that have been established which enable him or officers of his Department to maintain contact with State Government Ministers or State Government officers. 
) When was each body established and by whom. 
What is the (a) composition and (b) function of each body. 
On what occasions has each body met in the last 2 years and for what purpose. 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
Does his Department maintain a record of interdepartmental committees in which it participates. 
If not, then how is he aware of all the interdepartmental consultations in which his Department is involved through inter-departmental committees. 
Will he ensure that such a list is in future available to him. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Did the Prime Minister given an undertaking in 1972 that a Labor Government would establish a Pacific Islands Division in the Department of Foreign Affairs. 
If so, has such a division been established; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
What action has been taken by the Government to (a) modernise and (b) apply international conventions to secure universal prohibition of (i) nuclear, (ii) chemical and (iii) bacteriological warfare since 2 December 1 972. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
What action has been taken by the Government to establish more effective disarmament agreements, indicating the date, place and participants in each case, since 2 December 1972. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
What progress has been made towards finalising the proposed Treaty of Nara. 
Has agreement been reached on provisions relating to the export to Japan of Australian minerals. 
Has Japan proposed an Australian-Japanese Foundation in Tokyo. 
If so, what did this proposal precisely entail. 
What has been the outcome of the proposal. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
How many (a) domestic and (b) international flights were there (i) in and (ii) out of every airport in Australian capital cities and major territory centres in each of the last 5 years. 
How many passengers (a) arrived and (b) departed from each of these airports in each of the last 5 years. 
What is the estimated number of visitors to each of these airports in each of the last 5 years. 
What is the length of the runways, capacity and size of each of the airports. 
What is the size and quality of service provided in each of the terminals at each airport. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Will the Attorney-General provide a list of the interdepartmental committees, which have been established since 2 December 1972, of which officers of the AttorneyGeneral's Department are members. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
1 ) Does the Attorney-General's Department maintain a record of interdepartmental committees in which it participates. 
If not, then how is the Attorney-General aware of all the interdepartmental consultations in which his Department is involved through interdepartmental committees. 
Will the Attorney-General ensure that such a list is in future available to him. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What restrictions does the Government intend to introduce in regard to the advertising of pain-relieving preparations. 
) When will the restrictions come into operation. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Has the interim committee of Outer Eastern Metropolitan Region 16 expressed opposition to the Australian Assistance Plan. 
What is his attitude to the claim by the region that the administrative structure of the scheme should be direct through the local government instrumentalities. 
What is his attitude to the view of the interim committee that a regional structure for social welfare should be combined with the already established regional structure for the Grants Commission. 
What is his attitude to the committee 's view that policy and administrative decisions should be in the hands of elected local government representatives. 
What is his attitude to the view put by the committee in its opposition to the Plan that all funds should be channelled through the presently established local government structure. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
With reference to the answer to question No. 548 (Hansard, 19 September 1974, page 1621) in which the Prime Minister indicated that the form and frequency of exercises in Government Departments in civil defence preparedness are as determined by individual Departments, on what dates in the last 18 months have exercises of this nature been conducted in his Department. 
Which officers and employees took part. 
How many officers and employees took part. 
What was the purpose of each of the exercises. 
Does he accept that this is an area where the Australian Government can give a lead to other employers. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to reports that Japan and Singapore and other countries are considering a joint venture steel mill to be backed by several governments or companies in the region and to be established in Indonesia. 
If so, has it been suggested that Australia might provide raw materials such as iron ore and coal for the steel mill. 
Will he provide details of any information he has on this matter. 
Will he also indicate any interest that the Government or Australian companies have so far taken in this matter. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
With reference to the answer to question No. 290 (Hansard, 3 October 1974, page 226S), in which the Minister informed me that the Department of Agriculture maintains a record of interdepartmental committees in which it participates, will the Minister provide me with a photocopy of the current record. 
-I ask the Prime Minister Is it correct that he said a fortnight ago words to this effect: 'I will not pick on  Mr Crean  or anybody else. He has the responsibility in these matters, but I think he has been picked on far too much, quite obscenely.'? Presumably 'these matters' were the highest inflation for 20 years and the highest unemployment for 25 years. Did the Prime Minister add words to this effect: 'I will give no assurances or denials on this matter. There is nothing I have done or said that would justify speculation that Crean is going'? Will the Prime Minister take this opportunity to state unequivocally his confidence in his Treasurer? Will he do so to end the uncertainty caused by continual reports of his bungling attempt to make the honourable member for Melbourne Ports, the Treasurer, the scapegoat for the economic disaster for which he, the Prime Minister, predominantly and the rest of the Cabinet must bear full responsibility? 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. Because of the hedging answer he has just given I ask the Prime Minister for the second and final time to take this opportunity now to state unequivocally his confidence in the honourable member for Melbourne Ports as Treasurer and to say whether or not the Treasurer will be replaced. With unemployment at record levels and confidence at rock bottom, does he expect Australia to endure another week of indecision as to the future of the Treasurer? Is it a case of waiting until the  Deputy  Prime Minister returns to Australia so that he can be sworn in as Treasurer? 

 - Mr Speaker, unemployment has reached out to 3 per cent of the Australian work force, and that is at a minimum. One hundred and ninety thousand people are the certain victims of a leaderless, incompetent, insensitive, smug and crippled government. Thousands more are not registered: Women, juniors, executives, salesmen, typists, clerks have yet to register. Their pride will wilt as their personal position worsens. These people and the 190,000 people of whom I have spoken who are unemployed are destined to be followed by tens of thousands more unemployed over the next months. The awful tragedy is that this should never have happened. The social and economic scars yet to be etched on the face of this Government will disfigure its reputation for generations. 
Three times in the past 40 years Australia has been struck by employment of the magnitude we are facing today. Some still remember the massive unemployment of the late 1920s and the early 1930s- the great depression. That was under a Labor Government. More remember the great unemployment of the immediate post- Second World War years and the accompanying controls and constraints on the individual. That was under a Labor Government. Now we have record and rising unemployment today, again under a Labor Government. The Australian Labor Party is sinking for the third time under the weight of its own unemployment-causing policies. Historically it has confirmed itself as the Party of unemployment in Australia. I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard Press Statement No. 26 of 1974 from the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  entitled 'Provisional Commonwealth Employment Service Statistics October 1974' and the attached tables. 
The labor market continued to deteriorate during October. The rate at which unemployment increased accelerated sharply and there were indications that a wider range of industry was affected than in previous months. 
As in August and September the increase was more marked in metropolitan than in non-metropolitan areas. 
In seasonally adjusted terms the total number of persons registered for employment at the end of October was 169,542. These are provisional figures and exclude schoolleavers. The actual number of school-leavers registered for employment at the end of October was 3,678. 
However, it is now possible to give a seasonally adjusted figure for school-leavers according to the new adjustment factors for the school-leaver component which has been made available by the Australian Bureau of Statistics. This figure at the end of October was 19,704, giving a seasonally adjusted total (including school-leavers) of 1 89,246. 
This is the first time that we have been able to provide figures based upon this new seasonal adjustment factor for the school-leaver component and in future, these will be used to give a total seasonally adjusted figure. 
In actual, as distinct from seasonally adjusted terms, the number of persons registered for employment at the end of October increased by 28,742 (23.8 per cent) to 149,701 or 2.52 per cent of the estimated labor force. This includes the 3,678 school-leavers actually registered for employment. 
Seasonally adjusted unfilled vacancies declined by 4,966 (12.1 per cent) to 36,236 as against falls of 6,984 ( 14.5 per cent) in September and 12,739 (20.9 per cent) in August. 
Actual unfilled vacancies declined by 1,2 17 (3.0 per cent) to 40,036. 
Seasonally adjusted average hours of overtime worked per employee in the Department's Monthly Survey declined from 3.3 hours in August to 3. 1 hours in September. 
At end-October, there were 430 persons employed on projects commenced under the RED Scheme. The numbers in each State were New South Wales 168, Victoria 119, Queensland 65, South Australia 16, Western Australia 40, and Tasmania 22. As more than 400 proposals under the Scheme have now been approved at an estimated total cost of more than $10m, it can be expected that the numbers of employed on projects will increase markedly in the months ahead. 
The attached tables show the actual and seasonally adjusted statistics of total unemployed, unemployed excluding school-leavers, unemployed school-leavers and unfilled vacancies for Australia as a whole for each month since January 1974. More detailed tables for Australia and each of the six States will be included in my Department's Monthly Review of the Employment Situation to be released on Monday 18 November 1974. 

<graphic href="091131197411122_11_0.jpg"></graphic>

-Those are the official figures only. Last month, when the official figures revealed that 130,000 Australians were out of work in September, we had estimates by trade union leaders, business leaders and private employment firms that an extra 70,000 people were unemployed and that the true unemployment figure was closer to 200,000. We can assume on the same test that the real figure today of the number of people unemployed in Australia is a quarter of a million. We do not know the present situation in precise numbers but we do know that it is the worst for 30 years. We do know that the unemployment situation is going to become much worse in the months ahead. We do know that throughout Australia young men and women have already begun leaving schools and universities and are now coming onto the labour market Those young people will have their careers cut off before they begin. Many will bear the scars for the remainder of their lives. With their careers unfulfilled, bitterness and resentment will characterise their view of the system within which they live. 
The official figures released by the Minister for Labor and Immigration for September show that 36 per cent of those out of work were under the age of 21 years. There were 43,000 unemployed under the age of 21 years compared with 23,000 in September 1973, 28,000 in September 1972 and 20,000 in September 197 1. The same figures show that 48 per cent of the unemployed females are under the age of 2 1 years. There were 2 1 ,000 of those young women. Already reports from youth organisations suggest that some students are deliberately not sitting for their final examinations so that they can be first in the job queue. In one inner suburban employment office in Melbourne the number of registered unemployed under 2 1 years of age has increased by 400 per cent in the last year. The Government should apologise abjectly. Tragically we need REDregional employment development- projects for the relief of the unemployed youth in the urban areas. That is vitally urgent. The Opposition wants this action to be taken to help the young Australians who will not be able to find a job when they leave school and those young Australians who have been already thrown out of their jobs in such numbers by the deliberate policies of the Government. 
It is appalling to think of those people and to recall the words of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  2 weeks ago when he said: 
It is quite clear that the figures for the next quarter- on things like prices and unemployment- will be no improvement on those that have come out in the last couple of weeks. And the quarter after that there may be no great improvement. 
That is committing us, as Australian people, to 6 months of this hellish situation. The Prime Minister has abdicated. He says that nothing can be done for 6 months. That is a policy of defeat and despair which the Liberal-Country Parties completely reject. 
During its inglorious term of office the Government had made countless errors. There have been 4 great errors of policy which have led directly and inevitably to the unemployment crisis. They are: Firstly, the explosion of Government spending, beginning in the first half of 1 973 and continuing through 2 Budgets. That was to win the young voters. Secondly, the explosion of wage rises triggered by its adoption of the pacesetter principle in the Commonwealth Public Service. That was to win union votes. Thirdly, there was the 25 per cent across-the-board tariff cut. That was to win the consumer votes. Fourthly, there was the savage and prolonged credit squeeze. That was to win contempt for ever more from those who are unemployed. By those 4 home-grown deliberate acts the Government has created the twin tragedies of mass unemployment and uncontrolled inflation. In a short 23 months it has achieved stagflation in Australia. 
It is not easy to do. One wonders whether is would have been able to do it if it had deliberately set out to try to achieve it. It has all happened simply because ideology has commanded them. The 4 decisions were taken by the Cabinet in the face of opposite advice. It is no use at the eleventh hour trying to offer the Treasurer as the scapegoat and the human sacrifice. There can be no doubt that the Treasurer has been a tragi-comic figure, but to make him the scapegoat is cowardice on the part of the Ministry. 
On 27 July the Treasurer was asked this question: 
Is there going to be unemployment in Australia in the next few months? 

 Mr Crean replied: 
I don't think there 11 be unemployment of any substantial numbers. 
Is a quarter of a million not a substantial number? Compare this with the statement made on 21 April, before the last election, by the Minister for Labor and Immigration,  Mr Cameron.  He said: 
The Labor Government not only espouses full employmem as a cardinal act of policy but practices this policy. 
Yet one month after the election  Mr Cameron  was angering the Prime Minister by predicting rising unemployment.  Dr Cairns,  the  Deputy  Prime Minister, said in September- 
The honourable gentleman does not even know the title of his own portfolio.  Dr Cairns,  the  Deputy  Prime Minister, said in September 
Action by the Government to slow inflation will produce unemployment. 
He got into trouble for that statement. So, 2 days later, having his 2 bob each way and being all things to all men, he then said: 
Inflation can be attacked without resorting to unemployment. 
That was when he was making his run for the position of Treasurer. But we have had the unemployment and it will last 
The Government cannot pretend that it had no warning of the consequences of its decisions. In October last year I warned the Government that continuation of the credit squeeze would result in recession by mid- 1 974. 1 ask for leave to incorporate in Hansard a Press statement that I released on 3 1 October 1973. 
I thank the House. For the first half of this year Ministers were denying that a credit squeeze even existed. Unemployment therefore has directly resulted from Government policy errors- errors born of the Government's obsession with raping the private sector to satiate the public sector and to create the socialist Utopia. The restoration of full employment can be successful only if the Government gets the private sector going again- gets companies investing again, get builders building again and small businesses back into full operation. This will require measures by the Government to stimulate the private sector- measures to restore incentives to work, to restore incentives to invest and to restore confidence. It will require a supplementary Budget which takes the steps which I have explained tune after time for nearly a year. These include a reduction in the growth of Government spending by at least $ 1,000m and a reduction in income tax by $ 1,000m, supplemented by reductions in some indirect taxes. It would provide a tax cut for the average weekly earner of 20 per cent of his tax. 
The Budget strategy- to use the downturn in the private sector to transfer resources to the Government- must be reversed. The introduction in investment incentives to encourage private sector investment in new plant and equipment will be required. The restoration of full employment will require also the resuscitation of the housing industry which has been brought to its knees with a shortage of 50,000 homes by the end of this year. The social and economic impact of that will live with us for many, many years to come. It will require a complete review of the activities of the Prices Justification Tribunal which must understand that profit is honourable and a dynamic force, the Industries Assistance Commission, which needs to understand the depth of social problems when it takes decisions, the Parliamentary Joint Committee on Prices and the Trade Practices Commission, all of whose activities affect business decisions. 
The real tragedy is that measures of this type were not taken 6 months ago. Instead, nothing was done. Recently relaxation of the statutory reserve deposits requirement has not eased liquidity. The credit squeeze must be ended and interest rates must be slashed so that people can obtain finance to build their houses. Those members of the Government who have shown concern at the effects of the 25 per cent across the board tariff cut decision have been ridiculed as 'nervous Nellies' and 'pedlars of lies' by the Prime Minister. We have heard much from the Government about lags in economic policy. The Prime Minister has said that the situation cannot improve for 6 months. Why was the economy allowed to deteriorate to this point when the Department of Labor and Immigration has been estimating for months that unemployment would rise as much as it has. Why was no action taken when the Minister for Labor and Immigration wrote to the Treasurer urging a change of course? Why was no action taken when the Minister for Social Security,  Mr Hayden,  warned that the Government was presiding over the destruction of the Australian economy? Nowadays he could not get a single vote in the Caucus because he spoke out at that time. 
This Government did nothing until the unemployment figures became so bad that the trade unions threatened to withdraw their support from the Party. How sickening it is to read in the Press of a trade union secretary saying: 'Last year we gave $30,000 to Labor Party funds. Unless it does what we tell it to do, we will not give it a razoo next year'. The Government has done nothing until the unions have threatened them. At the weekend we were even treated to the spectacle of the Prime Minister of this country going to the home of the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. He debased the office. He was like Arthur Calwell waiting in the bushes outside the Hotel Kingston. The Prime Minister is the man who asked in June: 
Does anyone really believe that the Australian Labor Party, which owes it existence and survival to wage and salary earners, would pursue policies designed to put those people out of work? 
This is the man who described income tax cuts as economic vandalism. It is he who stands condemned and discredited, pandered to only by the sycophants who surround him. He cannot even knife his Treasurer cleanly. That is a bloody mess. The Prime Minister's days will be haunted by job queues and disguised dole payments. This is a Government and a Leader of Government failed. 
asked the Special Minister of State, upon notice: 
1 ) Will he provide a list of all formal committees, councils, etc., that have been established which enable him or officers of his Department to maintain contact with State Government Ministers or State Government officers. 
) When was each body established and by whom. 
What is the (a) composition and (b) function of each body. 
On what occasions has each body met in the last 2 years and for what purpose. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
1 ) Will the Postmaster-General provide a list of all formal committees, councils, etc., that have been established which enable him or officers of his Department to maintain contact with State Government Ministers or State Government officers. 
2 ) When was each body established and by whom. 
What is the (a) composition and (b) function of each body. 
On what occasions has each body met in the last 2 years and for what purpose. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Will the Postmaster-General provide a list of all grants, to any organisation or individual, that are provided from moneys appropriated to his Department or authorities under his control, to undertake research. 
To what bodies have such moneys been advanced, and what was or is the nature of the research being undertaken as a result of the grants in each of the last 3 years. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the present mean cost of servicing residential land in the Canberra area with: 
electricity 
water 
gas 
sewerage 
roads, including kerbing? 
How much has the mean cost risen in the last 12 months? 
asked the Minister for Science, upon notice: 
Will he provide a list of all research projects being undertaken in Australia into tidal power which are receiving financial support from the Government. 
What proportion does this represent of funds allocated by all sources in Australia to research projects into the applied use of tidal power. 
3 ) What is the purpose of each project. 
How many people are involved in each project. 
Where is the research being undertaken. 
What support is the Government providing for each project, and how is it provided. 
asked the Minister for Science, upon notice: 
Will he provide a list of all research projects being undertaken in Australia into geothermal energy which are receiving financial support from the Government 
What portion does this represent of funds allocated by all sources in Australia to research projects into the applied use of geothermal energy, 
3 ) What is the purpose of each project. 
How many people are involved in each project 
Where is the research being undertaken. 
What support is the Government providing for each project, and how is it provided. 
asked the Minister for Science, upon notice: 
1 ) Will he provide a list of all research projects being undertaken in Australia into wind energy which are receiving financial support from the Government? 
What proportion does this represent of funds allocated by all sources in Australia to research projects into the applied use of wind energy? 
What is the purpose of each project? 
How many people are involved in each project? 
Where is the research being undertaken? 
What support is the Government providing for each project, and how is it provided? 
asked the Special Minister of State, upon notice: 
1 ) For what purpose has the Department used management consultant firms in the last 12 months. 
Which firms have been used. 
3 ) What was the total cost. 
asked the Minister for the Environment and Conservation, upon notice: 
1 ) Did he say on 7 July 1974, in a prepared speech, that the Australian Government is finding it hard to stop people consuming goods which do not make them happy and which they do not really need. 
) If so, to what types of goods was he referring. 
Does the Government intend to make decisions itself about what goods the Australian people do or do not need. 
If so, who will take these decisions. 
Will there be any right of appeal for those people who disagree with the Government's decisions relating to their needs. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
1 ) How many women have been appointed to senior positions in his Department since 2 December, 1 972. 
Who are they. 
3 ) To what position has each been appointed, and what is the function of the position. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
If present tax deductions for contributions to medical and hospital benefit funds were replaced by flat tax rebates, so that the taxpayer is given a rebate equal to a certain percentage of his expenditure, what would be the estimated cost to the Commonwealth if the percentage of such expenditure rebated was (a) 10 per cent, (b) 20 per cent, (c) 30 per cent, (d) 40 per cent and (e) 50 per cent. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
If present tax deductions for medical, dental, optical, hospital and funeral expenses were replaced by flat tax rebates, so that the taxpayer is given a rebate equal to a certain percentage of his expenditure, what would be the estimated cost to the Commonwealth if the percentage of such expenditure rebated was (a) 10 per cent, (b) 20 per cent, (c) 30 per cent, (d) 40 percent and (e) 50 percent. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
If present tax deductions for dependants were replaced by flat tax rebates, so that a flat rebate is given to the taxpayer for each dependant, what would be the estimated cost to the Commonwealth of each $ 10 of such rebates. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
If the present tax deductions of up to $400 for educational expenses of children were replaced by flat tax rebates, so that the taxpayer is given a rebate equal to a certain percentage of his expenditure up to $400, what would be the estimated cost to the Commonwealth if the percentage of such expenditure rebated was (a) 10 per cent, (b) 20 per cent, (c) 30 per cent, (d) 40 percent and (e) 50 percent. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
What sums have been expended by local government authorities in metropolitan Sydney for the provision of street lighting during the last 1 2 months. 
What percentage of streets in Sydney and its built-up environs are provided with adequate street lighting. 
What is the average time period that elapses between the opening of new suburbs in outer Sydney areas and the subsequent provision of street lighting. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
Can he provide a list indicating, for each local government area in each State and Territory, (a) the number of dwellings by type that remain unsewered and (b) the number of people in each living in such dwellings. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
1 ) Can he provide a list of all freeway projects currently being undertaken in Australia and their stage of progress. 
Can he also provide a list of all freeway proposals in the planning stages in each capital city. 
Is there an inter-departmental committee on which his Department is represented considering this matter. 
If so, what are its terms of reference, and what is its membership and timetable. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
1 ) With reference to his announcement in July 1 973 that he had requested the Committee of Inquiry on the National Estate to examine the case for and means of preserving the Camden Park Estates as part of the National Estate and to provide advice as soon as possible, has the Committee yet reported to him. 
) If so, what is the nature of their advice. 
If not, when is the Committee expected to advise him, and will he be tabling their advice when it becomes available. 
asked the Minister for Northern Development, upon notice: 
Does his Department maintain a record of interdepartmental committees in which it participates. 
If not, then how is he aware of all the interdepartmental consultations in which his Department is involved through inter-departmental committees. 
Will he ensure that such a list is in future available to him. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
How many officers in his Department have been given some form of formal training in financial or auditing procedures used in Commonwealth departments in the last 12 months. 
2 ) What is the division and classification of these officers. 
3 ) How many of these officers were in operational as distinct from financial or accounting positions in the Service. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
1 ) Has he had discussions with the Minister for Environment and Conservation and the Minister for Transport regarding the future use of the Essendon Airport. 
If so, when did these discussions take place. 
Has he expressed the view that the land should be set aside as a recreational reserve. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
With reference to his answer to question No. 1002 (Hansard, 7 November 1973, page 974) in which he indicated that he may carry out a survey on urban renewal projects as the need arises and in line with the Government's economic priorities: 
a ) what will determine where a need has arisen, and 
what is the criteria against which he will assess the Government's economic priorities in order to decide when to carry out such a survey. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
What assistance has the Australian Government provided to the task force chaired by the General Manager of the South Australian Housing Trust which is undertaking a nationwide survey of ways to rejuvenate and improve existing cities. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
1 ) How many amalgamations of local government have occurred since Federation. 
Where, when and why did these amalgamations occur. 
How many proposed amalgamations of local government have been rejected. 
Where, when and why did such proposed amalgamations not occur. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the present mean cost of servicing residential land in the (a) Sydney, (b) Melbourne, (c) Brisbane, (d) Perth, (e) Adelaide and (0 Hobart area with (i) electricity, (ii) water, (iii) gas, (iv) sewerage and (v) roads including kerbing. 
How much has the mean cost risen in each category in the last 12 months. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
How many municipalities in the metropolitan (a) Sydney, (b) Melbourne, (c) Newcastle, (d) Wollongong, (e) Brisbane, (f) Adelaide, (g) Perth and (h) Hobart are totally unsewered. 
Which municipalities are they, and what is the estimated cost of sewerage requirements to each of them. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
1 ) How many municipalities in metropolitan (a) Sydney, (b) Melbourne, (c) Newcastle, (d) Perth, (e) Brisbane, (f) Adelaide and (g) Hobart are partially sewered. 
Which municipalities are they. 
To what extent are they partially sewered, and what is the estimated cost of completing sewerage in each of them. 
asked the Minister for Northern Development, upon notice: 
1 ) How many officers or employees of his Department or of authorities under his control are employed on research and development work. 
Where are they employed. 
3 ) What is the nature of the work being undertaken. 
What is the total expenditure per annum in maintaining this research and development program. 
Who decides the nature of the programs or projects included in this research and development work. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
With reference to the answer to Question No. 548 (Hansard, 19 September 1974 page 1621) in which the Prime Minister indicated that the form and frequency of exercises in Government Departments in civil defence preparedness are as determined by individual Departments, on what dates in the last 18 months have exercises of this nature been conducted in his Department. 
Which officers and employees took pan. 
How many officers and employees took pan. 
What was the purpose of each of the exercises. 
Does he accept that this is an area where the Australian Government can give a lead to other employers. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
With reference to the answer to question No. 352 (Hansard, 3 October 1974, page 2266), in which the Minister outlined resource surveys of the fishing potential in Australia which were commenced in 1 974, will the Minister inform me of the progress of each of these projects, the likely completion date and whether public reports will be issued on each of these projects. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
With reference to the answer to question No. 353 (Hansard, 3 October 1974, page 2266), in which the Minister informed me which resource surveys of the fishing potential in Australia had been commenced to 2 December 1972, what progress has been made on each of the projects, and have public reports been made available or will they be made available on each. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) Will he provide a list of all formal committees, councils, etc., that nave been established which enable him or officers of his Department to maintain contact with State Government Ministers or State Government officers. 
When was each body established and by whom. 
What is the (a) composition and (b) function of each body. 
On what occasions has each body met in the last 2 years and for what purpose. 
asked the Minister for Science, upon notice: 
Does his Department maintain a record of interdepartmental committees in which it participates. 
If not, then how is he aware of all the interdepartmental consultations in which his Department is involved through inter-departmental committees. 
Will he ensure that such a list is in future available to him. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Is the Australian Government finding it very hard to stop people consuming goods which do not make them happy and which they do not really need. 
) What types of goods are involved. 
Has the Government taken any steps to stop Australians consuming these goods. 
If not, are any such steps envisaged. 
Who takes decisions within the Government about what goods the Australian people do or do not need. 
Is there any right of appeal for those people who disagree with the Government's decisions relating to their needs. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
1 ) When was the upgrading of the obsolete watermains in Franklin in the Municipality of Huon provisionally approved under the Regional Employment Development Scheme. 
Who provisionally approved this project. 
Has Cabinet approved of the project; if so, when. 
What progress has been made with this project 
When will it be completed. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
When were the extensions to the Christian Youth Centre Camp at Ulverstone provisionally approved under the Regional Employment Development Scheme. 
) Who provisionally approved this project. 
Has Cabinet approved of the project; if so, when. 
What progress has been made with this project. 
When will it be completed. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
1 ) When were the heating and wind breaks for the swimming pool at Wynyard provisionally approved under the Regional Employment Development Scheme. 
Who provisionally approved this project. 
Has Cabinet approved of the project; if so, when. 
What progress has been made with this project. 
When will it be completed. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
1 ) When were the recreation ground amenities at Waratah provisionally approved under the Regional Employment Development Scheme. 
Who provisionally approved this project. 
Has Cabinet approved of the project; if so, when. 
What progress has been made with this project. 
5 ) When will it be completed. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
1 ) When were the netball courts and amenities at Burnie provisionally approved under the Regional Employment Development Scheme. 
Who provisionally approved this project. 
Has Cabinet approved of the project; if so, when. 
What progress has been made with this project. 
When will it be completed. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
1 ) When was the scout camp development-bunk house, lobby and recreation hall- at West Tamar provisionally approved under the Regional Employment Development Scheme. 
Who provisionally approved this project. 
Has Cabinet approved of the project; if so, when. 
What progress has been made with this project. 
5 ) When will it be completed. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
When were the sporting complex, fields and facilities at New Norfolk provisionally approved under the Regional Employment Development Scheme. 
Who provisionally approved this project. 
Has Cabinet approved of the project; if so, when. 
What progress has been made with this project. 
5 ) When will it be completed. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
When was the sweat track at Geilston Bay High School provisionally approved under the Regional Employment Development Scheme. 
Who provisionally approved this project. 
Has Cabinet approved of the project; if so, when. 
What progress has been made with this project. 
When will it be completed. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
1 ) When was the foreshore development at Wentworth Park, Clarence, provisionally approved under the Regional Employment Development Scheme. 
Who provisionally approved this project. 
Has Cabinet approved of the project; if so, when. 
What progress has been made with this project. 
) When will it be completed. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
When was the recreation and sporting centre at Latrobe, Wesley, provisionally approved under the Regional Employment Development Scheme. 
Who provisionally approved this project. 
3 ) Has Cabinet approved of the project; if so, when. 
What progress has been made with this project. 
5 ) When will it be completed. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
1 ) When was the upgrading of the watermains at Crabtree Grove- Project 2- in the Municipality of Huon provisionally approved under the Regional Employment Development Scheme. 
Who provisionally approved this project. 
3 ) Has Cabinet approved of the project; if so, when. 
What progress has been made with this project. 
When will it be completed. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
1 ) When was the upgrading of the watermain at Mountain River- Project 3- m the Municipality of Huon previously approved under the Regional Employment Development Scheme. 
Who provisionally approved this project. 
Has Cabinet approved of the project; if so, when. 
What progress has been made with this project. 
When will it be completed. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
When was painting by female labour- Project 1- in the Municipality of Beaconsfield provisionally approved under the Regional Employment Development Scheme. 
Who provisionally approved this project. 
Has Cabinet approved of the project; if so, when. 
What progress has been made with this project. 
When will it be completed. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
When was employment of female labour at Beaconsfield Council Chambers- Project 2- in the Municipality of Beaconsfield provisionally approved under the Regional Employment Development Scheme. 
Who provisionally approved this project. 
Has Cabinet approved of this project; if so, when. 
What progress has been made with this employment project. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
1 ) When was the development of Lewis Park BeachProject 2- in the Municipality of Clarence provisionally approved under the Regional Employment Development Scheme. 
Who provisionally approved this project. 
Has Cabinet approved of the project; if so, when. 
What progress has been made with this project. 
When will it be completed. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
1 ) When was the improvement to the Kentish Olympic Swimming Pool- Project 7- in the Municipality of Kentish provisionally approved under the Regional Employment Development Scheme. 
Who provisionally approved this project. 
Has Cabinet approved of the project; if so, when. 
What progress has been made with this project. 
When will it be completed. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
1 ) When were the improvements in the track to the summit of Mount Roland- Project 6- in the Municipality of Kentish provisionally approved under the Regional Employment Development Scheme. 
Who provisionally approved this project. 
) Has Cabinet approved of the project; if so, when. 
4) What progress has been made with this project. 
5 ) When will it be completed. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
When was the development of the elderly citizens' complex- Project 1- in the Municipality of Kentish provisionally approved under the Regional Employment Development Scheme. 
) Who provisionally approved this project. 
3 ) Has Cabinet approved of the project; if so, when. 
What progress has been made with this project. 
When will it be completed. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
1 ) When were the stormwater drains and improvements to the stormwater system at Railton- Project 2- in the Municipality of Kentish provisionally approved under the Regional Employment Development Scheme. 
Who provisionally approved this project. 
3 ) Has Cabinet approved of the project; if so, when. 
What progress has been made with this project. 
When will it be completed. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
1 ) When were the kerb, channel and drainage worksProject 3- in the Municipality of Kentish provisionally approved under the Regional Employment Development Scheme. 
Who provisionally approved this project. 
Has Cabinet approved of the project; if so, when. 
What progress has been made with this project 
5 ) When will it be completed. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
When were the improvements to Lake Barrington Reserves- Project 5- in the Municipality of Kentish provisionally approved under the Regional Employment Development Scheme. 
) Who provisionally approved this project. 
Has Cabinet approved of the project; if so, when. 
What progress has been made with this project. 
When will it be completed. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
When were the clearing of Risdonvale Creek and repairs to the weir- Project 3- in the Municipality of Clarence provisionally approved under the Regional Employment Development Scheme. 
Who provisionally approved this project. 
3 ) Has Cabinet approved of the project; if so, when. 
What progress has been made with this project 
When will it be completed. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
1 ) When was the beach and foreshore cleaning- Project 5- in the Municipality of Clarence provisionally approved under the Regional Employment Development Scheme. 
Who provisionally approved this project. 
Has Cabinet approved of the project; if so, when. 
What progress has been made with this project. 
5 ) When will it be completed. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
1 ) When were the South Ann Reserve improvementsProject 10- in the Municipality of Clarence provisionally approved under the Regional Employment Development Scheme. 
Who provisionally approved this project. 
Has Cabinet approved of the project; if so, when. 
What progress has been made with this project. 
5 ) When will it be completed. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
1 ) When was the work as Salmon Ponds, Plenty- Inland Fisheries Commission- provisionally approved under the Regional Employment Development Scheme. 
Who provisionally approved this project. 
3 ) Has Cabinet approved of the project; if so, when. 
What progress has been made with this project. 
When will it be completed. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
When was the improvement to fire-fighting access trails- Project 1- in the Municipality of Clarence provisionally approved under the Regional Employment Development Scheme. 
Who provisionally approved this project. 
Has Cabinet approved of the project; if so, when. 
What progress has been made with this project. 
When will it be completed. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
1 ) When, was the walking track from the Tasman Bridge to Bellarine- Project 6- in the Municipality of Clarence provisionally approved under the Regional Employment Development Scheme. 
Who provisionally approved this project. 
3 ) Has Cabinet approved of the project; if so, when. 
What progress has been made with this project. 
5 ) When will it be completed. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
When was the project in relation to the employment of typists at Beaconsfield- Project 3- in the Municipality of Beaconsfield provisionally approved under the Regional Employment Development Scheme. 
Who provisionally approved this project. 
Has Cabinet approved of the project; if so, when. 
What progress has been made with this project. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
When was the upgrading of the Cradle Mountain Road- Project 4- in the Municipality of Kentish provisionally approved under the Regional Employment Development Scheme. 
Who provisionally approved this project. 
Has Cabinet approved of the project; if so, when. 
What progress has been made with this project. 
5 ) When will it be completed. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) How will the weighted exchange value of the Australian dollar be determined for the purposes of keeping that value constant. 
What currencies will be taken into account when making this calculation. 
On what basis will weights be assigned to each of these currencies to determine a weighted average. 
My question is addressed to the Treasurer, that is, to  Mr Crean.  Following the supplementary fiscal measures announced by the Prime Minister last night and the fact that the aggregates detailed in the Budget Papers are now so massively out of date, will the Treasurer provide the House with the Government's present estimates in detail for both the deficit and the domestic deficit? Is it a fact that, together with other measures announced since the Budget, the budgeted deficit for 1974-75 is now in the region of $ 1,700m? For the half year January to June will the deficit be running at an annual rate of well over $2,000m and probably of the order of $2,500m, because the bulk of the expenditure announced last night is to occur in the half year January to June? Does the honourable gentleman agree that a deficit of these proportions is totally opposite to the proper way to deal with an inflationary situation? 
asked the Minister for Manufacturing Industry, upon notice: 
1 ) Will he provide a list of all formal committees, councils, etc., that nave been established which enable him or officers of his Department to maintain contact with State Government Ministers or State Government officers. 
When was each body established and by whom. 
What is the (a) composition and (b) function of each body. 
On what occasions has each body met in the last 2 years and for what purpose. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
1 ) How many women have been appointed to senior positions in the Postmaster-General's Department since 2 December 1972? 
Who are they? 
3 ) To what position has each been appointed, and what is the function of the position? 
asked the Minister for Science, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Government embarked upon an Ord River Research Program. 
If so, what is the nature of the program, and what progress has been made. 
Will a report be submitted to the Government: if so, will it be tabled. 
Who is undertaking the study. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Further to the answer to question No. 438 of 16 July 1 974, what recommendations were made by the members of the Council for Aboriginal Affairs who visited Hooker Creek. 
What action has been taken by the Government since the visit in order to increase Aboriginal involvement in the affairs of the community. 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
Was a meeting of oil consuming countries held in Brussels on 5 August 1974. 
If so, which countries attended the meeting. 
Did Australia participate. 
What was the outcome of the meeting and, in particular, what was decided with respect to (a) measures to conserve energy, (b) percentage reductions by specified countries in their consumption of oil or other energy resources, (c) sharing of available resources and (d) production on the basis of need. 
With respect to part (4)(b). which countries were specified, and what percentages were set. 
Will Australia participate in future meetings of oil consuming countries. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) Did he indicate to a group of senior defence officers in August 1974 that when Papua New Guinea becomes independent there would be no automatic involvement of Australian Forces there. 
If so, will he give details of what he meant by this reference. 
Did he further indicate that there would be continuing close relations between Australia and Papua New Guinea in defence matters. 
If so, what form will these relations take. 
What form of future defence co-operation is being planned. 
What discussions are being held with the Government of Papua New Guinea on this question. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
With reference to his reply to question No. 21 on 25 July 1974 (Hansard, page 730), what stage have consultations now reached on arrangements to transfer to sole Australian management (a) the United States Air Force facility at Amberley and (b) the United States seismic station at Alice Springs. 
What procedures have been decided upon to implement the agreement reached during his visit to Washington in January 1974. 
Can he now provide an estimate of the annual cost to Australia of running the installations referred to. 
Why is this matter taking so long to settle. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Further to his answer to question No. 969 on 24 October 1973 (Hansard, page 2664), what further consultations have now been held with Canada concerning the feasibility of joint purchasing of defence equipment. 
Have officials investigated the type of machinery required to enable initial procurement arrangements to proceed. 
If so, what were their findings. 
What action has been taken to follow-up their findings. 
5 ) Has similar action been taken with any other country. 
asked the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, upon notice: 
1 ) Will he provide a list of all grants, to any organisation or individual, that are provided from moneys appropriated to his Department or authorities under his control, to undertake research. 
) To what bodies have such moneys been advanced and what was or is the nature of the research being undertaken as a result of the grants in each of the last 3 years. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) Will he provide a list of all formal committees, councils, etc., that have been established which enable him or officers of his Department to maintain contact with State Government Ministers or State Government Officers. 
When was each body established and by whom. 
What is the (a) composition, and (b) function of each body. 
On what occasions has each body met in the last two years and for what purpose. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) Can he say what amounts each State Government has expended on the provision of urban public transport services in each of the last 10 years. 
What amounts have been provided by the Australian Government to the States for the provision of urban public transport services. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) For what purpose has the Department used management consultant firms in the last 12 months. 
Which firms have been used. 
What was the total cost. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) Has written Government approval been given for the English Barrow Hepburn Group to take over Wilcox Mofflin Ltd. If so, why. 
Is Wilcox Mofflin Ltd the biggest hide processor and exporter in Australia. 
I ask the Prime Minister to state unequivocally his confidence in the Minister for Housing and Construction. 
I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the Leader of the Opposition from moving General Business Notice of Motion No. 10 forthwith. 
That notice of motionMr Mathews- I raise a point of order,  Mr Speaker.  It is in order for the Leader of the Op- position to ride roughshod over the rights of back bench members of this Parliament by moving such a motion during question time? 
asked the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice: ' 
What assistance does the Government provide to disabled people who are unable to undertake full-time employment and wish to obtain finance to buy a home of their own. 
Does the Government support the view, that has been put to me by disabled people, that the criteria of the Defence Service Homes Scheme, for example, should be eased to overcome the difficulty the disabled 'have in raising the necessary deposit money. 
Will he undertake to examine the housing needs of the disabled, particularly those with dependants who are unable to work full-time, with a view to ensuring that they are not unreasonably disadvantaged in comparison with others in the community in their endeavours (o own their own home; if so, will he let me know the outcome] of the investigation. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Has the Government offered to provide an air quality monitoring station as part of the United Nations 'Earthwatch' program. 
If so, has a station been established; if so, where, and at what cost 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Will he provide a list of committees, task forces and commissions of inquiry that have been established by the Government since 2 December 1972, indicating alongsideeach committee, task force or commission (a) the date of its establishment, (b) the means by which its establishment was announced and the reference source of the announcement, (c) its composition, (d) its purpose, (e) whether it has completed its work, (f) whether it presented a report to the Government and, if so, when the report was received by the Government, when the report was tabled, and the.source or the Government's decision on its recommendations and (g) the cost of its operation; if not, why not. 
I ask the Treasurer Is it not true that Australia's inflation rate has accelerated faster than that of any other major country of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development? Is it not true that Australia's unemployment rate is now double our long term average as compared to the Western countries and northern American countries, where it is marginally above the long term rate? Is it not true that Australia has been insulated more than any other economy from the effects of the world energy crisis? Will the Treasurer make a detailed statement showing precisely how world economic conditions have affected or are expected to affect Australian economic conditions? In doing so, will he bear in mind that there has been no major injection of overseas liquidity into Australia for 2 years, that there has been no general collapse of Australian exports and that the Government itself claims that import prices have not made a major contribution to inflation in this country? How then can overseas conditions have influenced our domestic crisis? 
Last week we had Labor's third Budget in 4 months. It came in the twenty-fourth month of the Whitlam Government. In those 2 years this Government has changed Australia from having one of the lowest inflation rates in the world to having one of the highest. Labor has wrecked our proud record of having one of the lowest unemployment rates in the world. Australia's unemployment rate is now being compared with the traditionally much higher rates of the United States of America, Canada and some European countries. Labor has wrecked business confidence. It has set back our great mineral and energy industries. It has seriously depressed investment and has set back our long term growth. Labor has wrecked the housing industry. Housing completions this year will fall 50,000 short of our needs. Labor has pushed interest rates to their highest level in our history. From one of the best managed economies in the Western world ours has become one of the worst. For the 6 months since the May election this Government has failed to take the economic decisions required to avoid the current crisis, the economic measures consistently pressed by the Opposition. 
Here is the Labor record since last May, the countdown to the statement of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  made last Tuesday night. Six months ago during the election campaign Australians were told that the Labor Government's policies were working, that inflation was falling and would continue to fall. 
Only Whitlam can reduce inflation. We were told that only Whitlam could reduce inflation by one-third. We were told that only Labor could reduce the interest rates on housing by 3 per cent. We were told that tax cuts were economic vandalism. Five months ago on 7 June the Premiers were told that it was time for restraint and that government spending needed to be cut back. Money for the States was slashed resulting in both Liberal and Labor State governments imposing new and inflationary taxes. 
The States were tricked. The Prime Minister told the Parliament that his Government would reduce inflation to 8 per cent in a year. Four months ago we had a miniBudget. The Government put up cigarette and petrol prices. Out went the means test and the child care program. Honourable members will remember that on that night the Government benches were as empty as they are tonight. On that occasion they were empty because Government supporters were still in Caucus deciding whether they would let the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  say what he intended to say. Tonight the benches are empty because Labor is the wrecker of the economy. It created inflation and unemployment and does not have any prospect of permitting university and high school students to find vocation work or of enabling school leavers commencing their work careers to find employment. 
Three months ago the Prime Minister told us that there would be no unemployment. He said that at the very time that the Minister for Labor  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  was actually predicting that unemployment would be very high. But that did not stop the Prime Minister from saying: 
Does anyone really believe that the Australian Labor Party which owes its existence and survival to wage and salary earners would pursue policies designed to put those people out of work? 
Today there appeared in the newspapers an advertisement which proudly proclaimed to the whole world that unemployment has been a natural consequence of the attack by the Labor Government on inflation. Labor chose the option of unemployment. 
Two months ago we had the Budget that now lies in tatters. The Prime Minister wants the Treasurer to be made the scapegoat. He wants to throw the Treasurer out together with the Budget. Honourable members should remember that this discredited Budget was termed the Cairns Budget when it was thought to be a good one. It was named after the man who is or was to be the next Treasurer. I think our actions have saved Frank Crean as Treasurer. Whether we have been right or wrong in our judgment as to his economic capacity I leave open to question, but as a matter of honour we acted properly. That is not what the Prime Minister and the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  did in relation to their colleague. 
One month ago the consumer price index figures for the September quarter confirmed that inflation was running at 20 per cent. I am informed that the Press report tonight that inflation as measured by the consumer price index for the December quarter will have climbed to 30 per cent. Two weeks ago the October unemployment figures confirmed that we are in a recession and that unemployment is now the highest since World War II. One week ago we witnessed the degrading spectacle of the Prime Minister's apologia of defeat and mistaken policies, the greatest that has ever been made by any Australian Prime Minister. Yesterday he fatalistically accepted unemployment and recession for Australia without giving a tinker's curse about it. One newspaper said: 
Rarely, if ever, has a Prime Minister had to make such a frank and public admission that the Opposition was right and that his Government's policy had been wrong. 
Labor's economic policies have been irresponsible 
-That is Ted. Labor's economic policies have been irresponsible, confused and wrong. Four great mistakes of domestic policy have led directly and inevitably to the present situation. They are the explosion of government spending beginning in 1973 and continuing through 2 Budgets; the explosion of wage rises triggered by the pace-setter principle for the Public Service last year; the 25 per cent across the board tariff cut; and the savage and prolonged credit squeeze with its cruel interest rates. These are the 4 home grown mistakes. They were deliberate acts. By them this Government has created the twin tragedies of mass unemployment and uncontrolled inflation. 
One of the Government's former advisers has written that each of those decisions was taken by the Labor Cabinet against official advice. Both the Treasury and the Reserve Bank were opposed to this Government's attitude to government spending. The Treasury bitterly opposed the pace-setter principle. The Government's freewheeling approach to wage rises was equally opposed by the Treasury. It fought against the 25 per cent tariff cut and the Reserve Bank is aghast at the credit squeeze and the high interest rates. The Opposition warned of these consequences and events have confirmed everything we said. As the results have unfolded the Government has gone from bad to worse. We now have the most serious economic deterioration in this country since the Depression. The Opposition 's mid-year economic review was released on 5 July and this is a quotation from it: 
The economy is now reaching a turning point in the level of real activity. This prospect may be disguised by the continued expansion of money incomes as a result of the severe inflationary process now being experienced. Nonetheless, the prospective stagnation in real activity looms as a policy issue of major significance containing every threat of severe stagflation. Moreover, should this have continued depressing effect upon investment outlays, already apparent, then the costs of this outcome will be felt for years ahead. 
And so it will be. We will be working without men and equipment in the plants and factories. Our productivity cannot rise in those circumstances. This is what we said in July. We warned of the rising unemployment crisis unless immediate action was taken. 
It has taken the Government 4V4 months and 3 Budgets since then to act at all. In Labor's latest Budget announced last Tuesday the Government finally recognised, at least by word, the importance of free enterprise. After 2 years of attacks on business and industry, after 2 years of measures aimed at knocking its growth, after deliberate destruction of incentives, after attacks on any profit, after crippling its capacity to invest, after chopping confidence to a 45-year low back to the Great Depression, the Government says that the private sector is important, profit is good and businessmen are honest and honourable. It has taken the unemployment of 190,000 people, registered, as well as the number of those unregistered, to bring these fools to this conclusion. Last week's measures do not go anywhere near far enough to solve the twin problems of inflation and unemployment. I now set out once again the measures which need to be taken. They are not measures which can bring about an overnight recovery. Such a mess has been made that that cannot be done. Labor's management has created such a bitter mess that it will be a very sad unemployed Christmas which faces a quarter of a million Australians. If present policies continue there will be a faster rise in prices in the future. 
I turn now to the correct economic strategy. The basic economic strategy which the Opposition has advocated remains valid. I ask leave to incorporate in Hansard 2 sections of the speech which I made in reply to the Budget on 23 September in this House setting out this strategy. The 2 sections are 'National Objectives' and ' The Correct Economic Strategy ' - 
They are to be found in Hansard at pages 1712 and 1713. 
All right. If the Government does not wish to see the lesson that was read to it then, so be it. We know its capacity to understand. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
Does his Department maintain a recordof interdepartmental committees in which it participates. 
If not, then how is he aware of all the interdepartmental consultations in which his Department is involved through inter-depanmental committees. 
Will he ensure that such a list is in future available to him. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
1 ) How many officers or employees of the Department of Agriculture or of authorities under the Minister's control are employed on research and development work. 
Where are they employed. 
What is the nature of the work being undertaken. 
What is the total expenditure per annum in maintaining this research and development program. 
Who decides the nature of the programs or projects included in this research and development work. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
How many Government publications and inquiry centres were there prior to 2 December 1972. 
Where were they located. 
How many Government publications and inquiry centres are in existence at the present time. 
Where are they located. 
What is their purpose. 
How many Government employees work in each centre. 
How many inquiries are received daily, on average, at each of the centres. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
With reference to the answer to question No. S48 (Hansard, 19 September 1974, page 1621) in which the Prime Minister indicated that the form and frequency of exercises in Government Departments in civil defence preparedness are as determined by individual Departments, on what dates in the last 18 months have exercises of this nature been conducted in the Department of the Media. 
Which officers and employees took part. 
How many officers and employees took part. 
What was the purpose of each of the exercises. 
Does the Minister accept that this is an area where the Australian Government can give a lead to other employers. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Which Minister is responsible for the overseas visits committee. 
What is the current establishment and staff of the committee. 
3 ) What was the establishment and staff of the committee on 2 December 1972. 
What is the purpose of the committee. 
When was it established. 
What are the names of the officers presently on the committee. 
How many submissions for overseas visits by each department or statutory authority have been examined by the committee in each of the last S years. 
How many overseas visits have been made by public servants in each of the last S years. 
What percentage of these visits have been made by (a) first, (b) second, (c) third and (d) fourth division officers. 
What is the percentage increase in the number of overseas visits by public servants in each department in each of the last S years. 
How many public servants have made overseas visits on official business in each of the last S years. 
What is the percentage increase or decrease in the number of public servants who have undertaken overseas visits on official business in each of the last 5 years. 
What was the total cost of overseas visits by public servants on official business in each department or statutory authority in each of the last 5 years. 
What is the percentage increase in the total cost of overseas visits by public servants on official visits in each of the last S years. 
Does the committee submit a report to the Government. 
How many submissions for overseas visits have been rejected by the committee in respect of each department or statutory authority in each of the last S years. 
What percentage of submissions for overseas visits by each department or statutory authority have been rejected by the committee in each of the last 5 years. 
Who has the final responsibility for approving an overseas visit by public servants. 
Can the overseas visits committee overrule the recommendation of a Minister in an individual department. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) How are copies of Ministerial press releases circulated. 
To whom are they circulated. 
How many copies are circulated in total. 
What is the total annual cost, including salary and administration charges, in producing and distributing Ministerial press releases. 
How many public servants in his Department are involved with the distribution of press releases. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) How many librarians are employed in the departments or authorities of the Government. 
What staffing is provided in the library of each department or authority. 
Are efforts taken to avoid duplication across departments in information storage and retrieval; if so, how is this done; if not, why not. 
Has the Public Service Board recently conducted an examination of information storage and retrieval of all government departments and authorities. 
If so, when, and with what result. 
If not, will he discuss with the  Chairman  of the Public Service Board the need for such an inquiry. 
asked the Minister for Northern Development, upon notice: 
With reference to the answer to question No.  548  (Hansard,  19  September  1974,  page  1632)  in which the Prime Minister indicated that the form and frequency  or  exercises in Government Departments in civil defence preparedness are as determined by individual Departments, on what dates in the last  1 8  months have exercises of this nature been conducted in his Department. 
Which officers and employees took pan. 
3 )  How many officers and employees took pan. 
What was the purpose of each of the exercises. 
Does he accept that this is an area where the Australian Government can give a lead to other employers. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Who will determine what information is stored on MANDATA. 
Will public servants have access under certain conditions to the information that is stored in this computer system. 
If so, how will this access be made available. 
Who will decide which Departments and under what conditions access will be granted to the MANDATA system. 
Will organisations or individuals outside the Public Service have access to the MANDATA system. 
If so, who will determine the conditions of this access, and what provisions will be made to safeguard the right to privacy of individual public servants. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Has  Ms Elizabeth  Reid submitted a report to him following her visit some time ago to the United Nations and other countries. 
Has he decided, before receiving the report, that it will not be made public; if so, why. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
How many interstate trips were made by public servants in each Department in each of the last S years. 
What was the total cost of interstate trips undertaken by public servants in each of the last S years. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Since ratification of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, what inspections have been conducted or what other arrangements have been settled or entered into with respect to the development of nuclear energy technology in Australia. 
What further action is proposed pursuant to ratification. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise, upon notice: 
With reference to the answer to question No. 548 (Hansard, 19 September 1974, page 1621) in which the Prime Minister indicated that the form and frequency of exercises in Government Departments in civil defence preparedness are as determined by individual Departments, on what dates in the last 1 8 months have exercises of this nature been conducted in the Department of Customs and Excise. 
Which officers and employees took part. 
How many officers and employees took part. 
What was the purpose of each of the exercises. 
Does the Minister accept that this is an area where the Australian Government can give a lead to other employers. 
asked the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice: 
Will he provide a list of all formal committees, councils, etc, that have been established which enable him or officers of his Department to maintain contact with State Government Ministers or State Government officers; 
When was each body established and by whom; 
What is the (a) composition and (b) function of each body; 
On what occasions has each body met in the last 2 years and for what purpose. 
asked the Minister for Manufacturing Industry, upon notice: 
Does the Government intend to establish an invention development corporation or commission; if so, when. 
I ask the Prime Minister: Is the Government going to do nothing about the position of many thousands of young Australians leaving schools and universities who will go straight on to the unemployment register, and the thousands of secondary and university students who will be unable to find the vacation jobs that are so important to many of them? Does he understand that this situation will have an immense economic and social impact upon these young people? How can the Government justify abandoning these young people at this critical point in their lives when they are about to embark on their working careers? Why will the Government not adopt positive policies to stimulate the private sector and end this crazy credit squeeze, reduce interest rates and get the housing industry going again? 
The manufacturing industry in Australia is in an extremely depressed state. There is no confidence. There is no investment. There are retrenchments and there is no likelihood of the situation improving for a considerable time. The reasons for this are entirely the decisions of the Government. A political party should state quite explicitly its objectives and policies in respect of manufacturing industry, especially if that political party is in government. Unless a government is prepared to state that its objective is to develop and sustain an efficient, growing and diversified manufacturing industry, an appropriate level of confidence will not be established. A government should adopt clear policies to achieve this objectivepolicies which must include the creation and sustaining of an environment which encourages investment in manufacturing. The policies must be guaranteed to be stable and long term. We must have as a policy a consistent and constructive tariff policy, and that must be followed through. Australian ownership and control should be encouraged but overseas investment should not be discouraged. Incentives should be given to responsible industry in order to assist efficiency and profitability. The Government should state that it favours large, medium and small scale industry- the full range of industryand that adequate export incentives will be given. 
The manufacturing industry provides over 25 per cent of the gross domestic product. It provides one-third of capital spending by industry. It employs 1.5 million people. Each manufacturing job supports one tertiary job. Without a strong manufacturing industry we cannot have a growing Australia. Without a strong manufacturing industry we cannot achieve our national objectives- national objectives of growth, improvement in our living standards, the provision of education and health services, the relief of poverty, aid to the poor, the provision of aid to overseas countries less well endowed with resources and people than we are. None of those can be achieved without a strong manufacturing industry. Manufacturing is the great job provider. It can be successful in Australia, and it has proved that it is successful. It has proved that it is efficient. An example of this is the growth in exports. The value of exported manufactured goods in the mid- 1950s was $ 100m. By the financial year 1973-74 this had grown to $ 1,340m. It is efficient. It can compete with any country of the world. It can export. 
Note how things have changed now in the outlook for manufacturing industry. The Associated Chambers of Manufactures of Australia, in association with the Bank of New South Wales, undertook a survey for the September quarter. It found that there were falls in employment, falls in overtime, and falls in orders. It found the most widespread ever reported drop in these three essential items in the survey's history. An unprecedented 78 per cent of the people surveyed expect worse over the next 6 months. They share the view of the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions and of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  Against this background the Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Mr Enderby)  has said that the manufacturers and their management are frightened of their own shadows. If they were able to say in this House what they think of the Minister for Manufacturing Industry then it would perhaps explain to him that they are not frightened of their own shadows; they just want to get on with their jobs and have the capacity to do their jobs. The Prime Minister called them nervous Nellies. He called his own parliamentary colleagues the same. 
But this is not going to help manufacturing industry. Basically manufacturing industry is the area in which jobs are being lost. This is the area in which retrenchments are occurring. This is the area in which there is no investment, and it is the area in which help needs to be given. It is clear that nothing that the Government has done since that survey was taken has restored confidence in manufacturing industry. Fixed capital spending is down; it is falling on the basis of real prices. In 1973-74 there was actually $50m less spent than in 1969-70 in real terms. Investment in manufacturing industry is not keeping pace with the gross domestic product. The result is that we have ageing plant in our manufacturing industries. We have ageing technology. The capacity for efficiency and competition with overseas competitors for export markets will diminish. Our capacity to have increased productivity will diminish. Our capacity to have a lower unit cost will diminish as plant gets older and as technology gets out of date. 
There is gross under-training in the manufacturing industry because there is not the capacity to invest. There is not the cash flow; there is not the incentive. There will be negative productivity this year in the manufacturing industry, and this is a great indictment of this Government and its 
Minister for Manufacturing Industry. The causes are lack of confidence by the Government in the manufacturing industry and lack of confidence in the Government by the manufacturing industry. Each has lacked confidence in the other. The lack of confidence by the manufacturing industry in the Government is well placed. There has been immensely bad management on the part of the Government in carrying out its policies. Was the collapse of the Leyland Motor Corporation of Australia, Mainline Corporation Ltd and Cambridge Credit Corporation Ltd sheer coincidence? Of course it was not. The bad management is occurring in Canberra. There is today no coherent economic policy of any kind, and there is. certainly no policy for the manufacturing industry. 
The Government has given no positive statement of policy or objections in relation to manufacturing industry. It is prepared to stand by and see the imposition on manufacturing industry of the most intense credit squeeze that has ever been applied in the history of this country. It is perfectly clear that jobs are being lost in the manufacturing industry, and that is where incentive and help needs to be given. The only reason why the Government maintains a credit squeeze is that it is determined to lift government spending. If government spending is going to be lifted in that manner then pressure has to be put on the private sector to stop the private sector from competing for the goods and services supplied to the people. That is why I say: 'Cut back on government sector spending so that there is no need to have a credit squeeze'. The Government could reduce interest rates. The Government could say tomorrow: 'We will pull back on government spending. We will then have the capacity to say to the Reserve Bank of Australia: "Go out into the market place and buy, buy, buy bonds so that you put money back into the economy and you reduce the yield and bring down interest rates. You will then stimulate the private sector. We will stop the retrenchments and we will re-employ those people who have been put out of their jobs".' The reason why I say government sector spending should be cut down is that we cannot have government sector spending taking all of these things from the private sector and think it is doing some good. When did any honourable member last meet a retrenched public servant? Retrenched public servants do not exist. There is no need to retrench them in any way. All we need to do is to hold back government spending to a reasonable level of 25 per cent instead of the spendthrift level of 33 per cent. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 

 -Mr Speaker, before the sitting of the House was suspended for lunch I was making the fundamental point that the cause of the loss of jobs is the pressure that has been put on the private sector. The private sector has been put under pressure by a credit squeeze. The reason for the credit squeeze is to prevent the private sector from making use of money, resources, goods and services, and people so that they can all be transferred to the public sector. That is where the error lies. This Government, if it wishes, can give instructions today to the Reserve Bank to buy, buy, buy Government bonds to put money into the private sector, lower the yield and reduce interest rates. 
The Government has made some very serious policy errors. It has applied a credit squeeze- the most severe in our history. It has raised interest rates to the highest level in our history and it had done that by insisting upon buying votes through spending in the Government sector. It made a very serious error when it cut tariffs across the board by 25 per cent without any consideration of whether the industries affected were decentralised industries or under competition and without considering the nature of the work force or whether there were women in it. The curious thing is that the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  was not consulted in that tariff cut. Now all of these policy decisions are coming home to rest. Great unemployment has been achieved and I say 'achieved' purposely because the Labor Party adopted the option of having unemployment to tackle inflation. The Government adopted the wage setter principle for the Public Service. It encouraged big wage increases and got the wage price spiral going. Now the Government understands its error but it is incapable of doing anything about it. 
Rising costs are a threat to the survival of manufacturing industry and indeed to the whole of the private sector. What the Government wants to do is to leave the private sector in disarray so that the Government can offer to take up all the spending in the public sector. This is what the Government said in the Budget Speech. It said that it would take advantage of the downturn in the private sector to advance the public sector. That is wrong and there is no point in the Government now saying it will write a letter to the Prices Justification Tribunal to tell it that profit is honourable. What the Government needs to do is to bring legislation into this House and set out guidelines. There are no guidelines for the Prices Justification Tribunal. The Government has made a judge of the Arbitration 
Commission the man to determine prices but it has not given him any guidelines. 
Revaluation was said to be the great achievement of the Labor Party but is was not a great achievement; it was a disaster. What the Government achieved was to take out of the private sector the capacity to compete. It took confidence out of the private sector and did nothing about inflation because it was entirely home grown. Devaluation will not help either, while the inflation rate in Australia remains higher than that of our competitors. Devaluation has not achieved anything especially as it is even less than the total of the upward valuation which the Government deliberately set out to make. 
There has been unco-ordinated policy. There are more commissions, task forces and inquiries than a person could count, using every finger and toe of every member of this House. All of these bodies are totally unco-ordinated. The Industries Assistance Commission is going in one direction, the Prices Justification Tribunal is going in a different direction and the Trade Practices Commission is going in another direction. All the task forces, advisors- the multiplicity of advisers that Ministers have- have not achieved any coordinated policy. The Industries Assistance Commission as set up by this Government has forgotten what the word 'assistance' means. The IAC is now saying to the Government: 'Will you please have a co-ordinated policy'. Here is an outside independent body saying to the Government: 'For goodness' sake, have a co-ordinated policy'. The IAC made a submission to the Royal Commission into the Australian Public Service in exactly those terms. It said that the Government should develop a common and explicit framework of policy objectives. Manufacturing needs confidence; manufacturing needs certainty and the Government should state clearly its objectives and policies. It has totally failed to do so. It is no good the  Deputy  Prime Minister trying to be all things to all men, all countries and all people. What has he achieved? Absolutely nothing. If he has not the power in Cabinet and Caucus, then he ought to abandon his attempts. What we want is a policy statement now, not after the Jackson report. The Opposition is very concerned that no manufacturer as such is a member of the Jackson Committee.  Mr Jackson  of the Colonial Sugar Refining Co. Ltd, is a very eminent man, but where is the actual manufacturer who should be a member of the Committee. Where on that Committee is the representative of a small business? He is just not there. 
We have positive proposals. I want to make it clear that we are committed to growing efficient manufacturing industry but we first need to get the economy right. No tariff cut should be made without full consideration; there must be consistency of tariff making. There must be certainty for long term investment; there must be investment incentives to manufacturing industry and small businesses must be encouraged. There are 250,000 of them in Australia, 90 per cent of which are manufacturing companies employing half the Australian work force and producing 40 per cent of manufacturing output. What we want is a small business bureau in the department of Manufacturing Industry. This idea too has been stolen by the Labor Party. 
I move: 
That this House- 
1 ) expresses its belief that there should be no discrimination of any kind attached to an ex-nuptial child and that the word 'illegitimate' which has been used to date to describe children born out of wedlock is totally inapproriate and should be removed from all Commonwealth legislation and from common usage, and 
is of opinion that, as a matter of priority, legislation should be introduced to protect the rights of ex-nuptial children and, in particular, insofar as the Commonwealth Government is concerned, to remove the word 'illegitimate' from all existing Commonwealth legislation and to amend existing Commonwealth legislation to ensure that ex-nuptial children have the right to participate in the same benefits and entitlements that any other child in the community is able to receive. 
I have asked that the word 'illegitimate' be included in inverted commas because in the context of this debate it is not a proper word, as I hope to demonstrate. The subject of the motion has rarely been discussed in this House. I have no recollection of it ever having been discussed. The circumstances facing ex-nuptial children and the lives our society allows them to lead are subjects that should be understood widely and debated frequently, if need be until the concepts of the motion I am putting are accepted. One is reluctant to find it necessary to isolate the separate category of people and discuss them as though they were a unique human species. They are not. But regrettably this needs to be done because unless we specifically direct our attention to exnuptial children, we will continue to assume that they need no special help. To be born illegitimate is to be born disadvantaged. To be described as illegitimate is a gross discrimination and unfairness in itself. Society has held, and perhaps for some time to come may continue to hold, strong and varying views on the subject of children born out of wedlock. I believe that our community attitudes in the past have been too narrow. We have concentrated on the moral aspects of the relationship between a man and a woman and debated the propriety of extramarital sex. We have concerned ourselves with the need that society has for ensuring that the relationship between a man and a woman is stable and that the family life surrounding them is balanced. But in the midst of those concerns we have largely ignored the needs of the third person- the child born to an unmarried mother, a widow, a separated wife or to a married woman who has a relationship with a man who is not her husband. 
The purpose of this motion is to ask the community to reassess its attitudes that it has adopted towards ex-nuptial children, to familiarise itself with the difficulties that it may have caused ex-nuptial children and to recognise the harm this has done to the community itself. This is an area where legislators cannot achieve a total result. It is a relatively easy thing to legislate to abolish the concept of illegitimacy in a legal sense. That must be done. Certainly the law has discriminated against ex-nuptial children, particularly in areas such as the right to participate in the estate of its natural father or to establish as a right the identity of its father. But the removal of these disabilities still leaves a far more significant problem, that is, the attitude that society has towards the child. I should make the point that when I use the word 'child' we must remember that it is a child while it is young, but that same child carried that attitude right through adulthood. 
In Australia we know very little about how the ex-nuptial child is faring. There are serious gaps in our knowledge which we must move to correct. There are no longitudinal studies at all that I know of that have been conducted in Australia to determine the welfare and the progress of the exnuptial child. There have been longitudinal studies done in the United Kingdom to which I will come shortly. But quite clearly the reason there have been no such longitudinal studies in Australia is that no funds have been provided for the purpose and largely because the community, knowing its attitude, has felt that it would be a gross intrusion on the rights of the person to inquire into what has happened to the ex-nuptial child as it has grown older. 
On the legal side, measures are now being taken to improve the situation facing ex-nuptial children. As honourable members may be aware, the New Zealand Government has acted as an initiator in this process by passing a Status of Children Act 1969 which has as its main aim the statement of the concept that all children should be of equal status and that the relationship between every person and his father and mother shall be determined irrespective of whether the father and mother are or have been married to each other. The rule of construction whereby in any instrument words of relationship signify only 'legitimate' relationship in the absence of contrary expression of intention is abolished. The Act outlines ways in which paternity is to be recognised and proved. 
Since the passing of that Act, Bills have been introduced by the Tasmanian, South Australian and Victorian Governments along basically similar lines incorporating in each case a schedule which amends existing legislation to remove the word 'illegitimate' where it occurs and to ensure that an ex-nuptial child is not excluded by way of definition from participating in benefits and entitlements that should be available to him or to her. There is a similar need for Commonwealth legislation of that kind. As one instance of Commonwealth legislation which is discriminatory in this sense, I mention the Commonwealth Superannuation Act where the definition of 'child' includes an adopted child but does not include an ex-nuptial child. Existing Commonwealth legislation must be examined to ensure that this type of anomaly is removed. It is important to recognise that, having done this legal exercise, we will have embarked only on the first long overdue step. There will be significant problems that will remain for the Australian people to resolve in their own hearts and minds. We will need to examine the social and educational implications of being born ex-nuptial. 
As an example of the kind of attention that we ought to be giving this question, I refer to the study undertaken by the Children's Bureau in the United Kingdom and the results of national studies undertaken there. In 1958 the children of a whole week's births were included in a perinatal mortality study. This included 17,000 births, both legitimate and ex-nuptial children. Since 1958, children have been studied in follow up surveys as part of the childhood study. This is the longitudinal study to which I referred earlier. The findings of the study which have been summarised in a report by the National Children's Bureau are quite disturbing. I mention some of them. 
The findings regarding pregnancy management suggest that mothers-to-be of ex-nuptial children take much less care of themselves and consequently of the unborn child. A significant proportion do not seek any pre-natal care at all or seek it later than is medically advisable. More ex-nuptial babies are born with a birth weight lower than 2,500 grams. Twice the proportion are of very low birth weight and in general the babies are lighter by far. In all aspects of ability and attainment the ex-nuptial group did significantly less well than the child born in marriage or the adopted child. 
For example, a higher proportion were below average for their age in general knowledge, oral ability, creativity and perceptual development. Even those living in the relatively more favourable circumstances of middle-class homes did less well. The same pattern was found in relation to attainment in reading and arithmetic. Adopted children were the best readers, then nuptial children next with ex-nuptial children faring worst being on average one year behind in reading the level of the other children. I quote from the overall conclusion of the report: 
Overall they - 
That is, ex-nuptial children- . . . were beset by a multiplicity of unfavourable circumstances which not only gave them a relatively poorer start in life but which continued to build up into a complex web of cumulative and interacting disadvantages and deprivations. 
I have no doubt that some of those findings- indeed virtually all of those findings- would apply equally to the Australian situation. 
It is to these sorts of implications that we must direct our attention. The future of Australia depends on the success that we allow every individual in it to enjoy. The deprivations that the ex-nuptials face are very real. Apart from persecuting individuals who have no choice in the circumstances of their birth, society persecutes itself by so doing. We must accept totally the principle that the long-term welfare of the child should be the first and paramount consideration. This principle should be the basis of determining all policy and practice for all children without differentiation as between them. Making children suffer because of actions taken by others which are certainly beyond the child's control, it not even existing at the time of the complained of behaviour, is cruel and ill-fitting a society which should adopt such attitudes. Society should recognise the immeasurable asset of its own people and its own children. It should not under any circumstances allow itself to set patterns which would discriminate against them. 
I have previously announced that a future Liberal-Country Party Government will establish a children's bureau in the proposed Department of Community of Development. That bureau will provide a central source of input to a committee of Ministers concerned with specific aspects of the welfare of children. It will monitor community trends and conduct multidisciplinary research. I would expect that some of the questions studied by the United Kingdom's Children's Bureau to which I have referred would be considered by the Australian Children's Bureau.  Mr Speaker,  I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard a statement which I made on 27 October last. 
The amendment is not acceptable to me. It is not acceptable to me basically for 2 reasons: Firstly, because it is a reaction by the Government on the basis that there is a political intention and it wants to succeed on a political supremacy basis, which is not the right way in which to deal with a national purpose issue of this kind; and, secondly, because the amendment refers to the Australian Government's decision to legislate and we have not seen the legislation, therefore we cannot support such a decision. Indeed - 
-The statement of principle is there, that is, that this House is of the opinion that, as a matter of priority, legislation should be introduced. 
That is right, that legislation should be introduced. 
No, but what the Minister for Manufacturing Industry has done is seek to change the motion by having words inserted in it so as to pick up a political advantage of some kind. 
-The other thing is that the amendment seeks to remove from my motion the concept of priority. 
-It seeks to remove priority totally. The proposition is not acceptable to me if it just seeks to support the decision on a Kathleen Mavourneen basis, whenever that might be. I want priority to be given to this matter. My whole purpose in moving this motion was to give leadership to the community on social attitudes, and to give leadership to the community on social attitudes requires priority to be given to legislative prescription, hopefully on a bipartisan basis. The Minister for Manufacturing Industry spoke about the fact that the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  had announced yesterday a decision taken by the Caucus on this matter in the morning. It so happens that neither I nor, 1 think, anybody else on this side of the House was made aware of it. It shows how important it is that this expression of opinion be carried by the House that that announcement apparently went totally unnoticed. 
I have a fairly good intelligence system, I confess, but it so happens that I was unaware of that announcement being made yesterday. For the Minister's information, I did go to Sydney yesterday and I had to come back to Canberra by car at night because of the airline strike, but before I left Canberra I gave instructions to my Private Secretary,  Mr Goodfellow,  to go ahead because I believed that I could persuade the honourable member for MacKellar,  Mr Wentworth,  to give me priority over his General Business items. The honourable gentleman succumbed to my charms in a motor car trip between Sydney and Canberra at about 3 a.m. this morning. I had asked the Opposition Whip,  Mr Garland,  to withdraw his notice of motion, which was No. 3, and to put mine in its place. 
We get the opportunity only once every fortnight when the House is sitting to put forward these matters. The matter I chose to put forward two weeks ago was the establishment of a committee of the House on a totally non-political basis to look at the very serious problem of word blindness in children and the associated problems of dyslexia and the incapacity to absorb education even though the intellect is in advance of the level of education etc. It so happens that I gave that matter my attention a fortnight ago and left this matter until this occasion. I really do deprecate the suggestion of the Minister that I was in some way trying to impose our views before the Government's views became known. That is nonsense. There is not a man on this side of the House- I hope that there is not one on the other side of the House- who does not regard the continuance of social attitudes towards exnuptial children in the fashion that they have existed up until now as being wrong. The Opposition will oppose the amendment, which seeks to substitute certain words in relation to the following part of my motion: 
That this House . . . is of opinion that, as a matter of priority, legislation should be introduced . . . 
The Minister for Manufacturing Industry wants some of those words eliminated and others substituted in their place so that the relevant part of the motion would read: 
That this House . . . supports the Australian Government's decision to legislate. 
For goodness ' sake why does it have to be put in that political sense? Why does it have to be put in any political sense? Why do we on this side of the House, concerned as we are about this matter, have to pay some sort of obeisance to the pride of the Government because it thought of it first, which is a lot of nonsense because it did not? Let us get back to basic reality. What we want is a unanimous expression of opinion by this House- by every member of it. Those are the words which would give expression to that unanimity of opinion on this major national issue in the social field. I call upon the Minister to reconsider pursuing his amendment. 1 pay tribute warmly and generously to his efforts and to the efforts of the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  to get such legislation introduced. That is fine with me. But do not, for goodness' sake, try to put this motion into terms in which the House is being asked to applaud the Government. We want the matter to be considered on a non-political basis. We want a unanimous expression of opinion on this matter by the House in the terms of my motion, which I will again read: 
That this House- 
1 ) expresses its belief that there should be no discrimination of any kind attached to an ex-nuptial child and that the word illegitimate which has been used to date to describe children born out of wedlock is totally inappropriate and should be removed from all Commonwealth legislation and from common usage, and 
is of opinion that, as a matter of priority, legislation should be introduced to protect the rights of ex-nuptial children and, in particular,  insofaras  the Commonwealth Government is concerned, to remove the word illegitimate from all existing Commonwealth legislation and to amend existing Commonwealth legislation to ensure that ex-nuptial children have the right to participate in the same benefits and entitlements that any other child in the community is able to receive. 
Please accept those words and do not fiddle around by trying to make it in some way party political. 
My question is addressed to the  Deputy  Prime Minister and Minister for Overseas Trade. I ask it of him in his position as the Treasurer elect. Does he still believe, as he told this House last Wednesday, that unemployment in Australia today is 'absolutely trivial'? With unemployment in Australia rising at the rate of 1,000 a day and the official seasonally adjusted figures for October showing 190,000 people, including school leavers, out of work, does he believe that is absolutely trivial? Has he been told that the Minister for Labor and Immigration is forecasting that unemployment will show a big increase in the next few months and that the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions is forecasting that 300,000 Australians will be out of work in January? Is that absolutely trivial? Is the Australian Labor Party still pledged to full employment, and if so, is the Deputy Prime Minister pledged to full employment? For the benefit of all those union members who are and will be unemployed, school leavers and vacation student workers, will he state what level of unemployment has to be reached in Australia before it ceases to be absolutely trivial? The words used by him, on page 3766 of Hansardhe uses the words quite clearly- were:  . . . unemployment in Australia is trivial in comparison with unemployment in other countries- absolutely trivial. 
The question relates to Australia. Is unemployment absolutely trivial? 
1 address my question to the Prime Minister, representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Is it a fact that the Palestinian Liberation Organisation's stated aim is to establish a Palestinian state which will absorb Israel and that the PLO has never retracted its demand for the destruction of the State of Israel? Will Australia call on the PLO to state, in the United Nations and elsewhere, that it accepts unequivocally Israel's right to exist as an independent nation within secure and recognised boundaries? Will the Australian Government also call on the PLO to denounce and act to prevent the use of violence and terrorism so that the basis for peaceful negotiations with Israel can be established? 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) Will he provide a list of all formal committees, councils, etc., that have been established which enable him or officers of his Department to maintain contact with State Government Ministers or State Government officers. 
When was each body established and by whom. 
What is the (a) composition and (b) function of each body. 
On what occasions has each body met in the last 2 years and for what purpose. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
With reference to the answer to question No. 548 (Hansard, 19 September 1974, page 1621) in which the Prime Minister indicated that the form and frequency of exercises in Government Departments in civil defence preparedness are as determined by individual Departments, on what dates in the last 18 months have exercises of this nature been conducted in his Department. 
Which officers and employees took pan. 
How many officers and employees took part. 
What was the purpose of each of the exercises. 
Does he accept that this is an area where the Australian Government can give a lead to other employers. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Did he discuss with President Soeharto, during his visit to Indonesia in September 1974, the question of Indonesian fishermen fishing in Australian waters. 
If so, did he obtain from President Soeharto an agreement to co-operate in policing this practice. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Are any measures taken to review, on a continuing basis, the operation of interdepartmental committees in order to ensure whether or not matters under study by them are duplicated by other Government inquiries or are necessary in view of the fact that the matter on which the committee is deliberating has already been subjected to an inquiry by another source inside or outside Government; if so, what measures are taken and, who undertakes this review; if not, why not. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Was his refusal to provide a comprehensive list of interdepartmental committees, on which his Department was represented, based solely on the grounds that it would be too time consuming and costly to prepare such a list. 
If so, is it a fact that, in reply to questions I have placed on the Notice Paper, several Ministers have informed me that they do keep records or lists of interdepartmental committees on which their respective departments are represented. 
If the position is as stated, will he authorise the Ministers to provide me with a photocopy of the lists that are already being produced as this would not involve unnecessary time or expense. 
If not, what are the other reasons, apart from questions of national security, which lead him to the belief that general release of information concerning interdepartmental committees, other than those publicly known to be functioning or to have functioned, is unwarranted. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Does he still hold the view that the membership of interdepartmental committees is of public interest and should therefore be available to the public. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Which Minister is responsible for the Public Service Board. 
I give notice that at the next sitting I shall move: 
That the Government no longer possesses the confidence of the House for creating the worst economic recession since the depression of the 1930's through its economic and administrative incompetence and mismanagement, resulting in: 
Mass unemployment and social hardship; 
Social division and inequality through the highest inflation for a generation: 
A fall in the living standards of all Australians: 
The greatest industrial unrest for a generation; 
Destruction of the housing construction industry causing a massive shortage of homes: 
Decline in investment in manufacturing industry with a consequent fall in productivity: 
Destruction in the rural sector, both socially and economically; 
The alienation of foreign investment; 
Uncertainty in the Australian community through ministerial confusion of roles as exemplified in the replacement of Mr Crean 
Disruption of the  transport  industry, especially air and sea, with particularly harsh socio-economic consequences to Tasmania; 
Unnecessary confrontation with State governments thereby making a mockery' of our system of federalism; and 
The declining investment and widespread uncertainty of the resource-based industries. 
-I move: 
That the Government no longer possesses the confidence of the House for creating the worst economic recession since the Depression of the 1 930 's through its economic and administrative incompetence and mismanagement, resulting in: 
Mass unemployment and social hardship; social division and inequality through the highest inflation for a generation; a fall in the living standards of all Australians; the greatest industrial unrest for a generation; destruction of the housing construction industry causing a massive shortage of homes; decline in investment in the manufacturing industry with a consequent fall in productivity; destruction in the rural sector, both socially and economically; the alienation of foreign investment: uncertainty in the Australian community through ministerial confusion of roles as exemplified in the replacement of  Mr Crean;  disruption of the transport industry especially air and sea, with particularly harsh socio-economic consequences to Tasmania; unnecessary confrontation with State governments thereby making a mockery of our system of federalism: and the declining investment and widespread uncertainty of the resource-based industries. 
When this Government came to office for the first time in 1972 nobody could have dreamed that 2 years later Australia would be in the mess that it is in today. Very many people gave support to the Australian Labor Party believing that it had some mystical formula which would bring to Australia the realisation of great ideals and that it would be a Utopia in which we lived. At the time this Government was elected to office we had in Australia an inflation rate of  4Vi  per cent. We had an unemployment rate in Australia of a fraction of 100,000 people. This Labor Government came into office making grandiose promises of performance. It did not succeed in achieving any of them. In May 1974, a great number of people felt: Let them have a fair go. Let them be returned to office for a continuing period. A great number of people were not prepared to give them that fair go. The consequence was that the difference in the result of that election was a mere 5 seats, and in each of those S seats the Labor Party won by a very close margin. There was a very close margin in the voting in a great number of seats. They were very close seats and if that election had gone differently the whole future of Australia since May would have been changed quite dramatically. It would have improved. We could have been a great country today. Make no mistake about it, in the future we will be a great country. Today, there is no country in the world that has less prospect for the future than does Australia. 
We have immense resources. We have resources under the ground and we have resources that are cultivated on the ground. We have a tremendous population of people who can achieve and who will achieve, given an opportunity. We have great mineral industries, great pastoral and rural industries and great manufacturing industries to develop. But all these industries today have faltered. In none of those industries is there any real sense of confidence of a future in Australia. This has been brought about by the actions of a government that really does not know what is happening. The deterioration in the economy over the last 2 years can be exemplified very easily by pointing to unemployment. When this Government came into office, unemployment was declining and it continued to decline. But today we have reached a stage in Australia at which unemployment, in seasonally adjusted terms, has reached 190,000 people. Quite clearly it has worsened markedly this month. When the figures for November come out it is beyond doubt that the seasonally adjusted figure will be well over 200,000 people. In the meantime those people who are unemployed have been cut off from their careers in the middle of their working lives. There are a tremendous number of school leavers whose first experience of employment in Australia will be to go onto the register of unemployed. Vacation workers will be looking for money to tide them over the next year. Those people will have an immense impact made upon their futures. It will live with them for the rest of their lives. 
Inflation has mounted from  4Vi  per cent to a level of between 16 per cent and 20 per cent, however one cares to measure it. The harm that inflation does can be measured against those people who have retired and are dependent on a fixed income, or it can be measured against those people in their forties or fifties who are paying into a superannuation scheme or for insurance policies and who know the value of that superannuation or of those insurance policies will be greatly eroded by the time the collecting period arrives at their retirement from their work. 
Investment in Australia has downturned to the point where there is no investment confidence in Australia at all. The consequence of the lack of investment is that in Australia we will be working long into the future with plant and equipment that is outfashioned and inefficient. We will be working with outmoded technology. The capacity for improved productivity in Australia in future years will be very seriously handicapped as a result of the downturn in investment in plant and . equipment across the whole range of our industries, whether they be rural, mining, manufacturing or the tertiary industries. That will result in a downturn of productivity. It already has resulted in a downturn of productivity. Productivity is the magical key. With productivity we can indeed have rising living standards and rising wages without rising prices. But without productivity we cannot achieve that. The level of production in Australia in real terms will be negative this year. The Budget itself- that is the second Budget- said that there would be an increase in real terms of only 2 per cent. But as there will be an increase in the work force of 2 per cent it is clear that even the Government was not expecting any increase at all in the real level of production in Australia. 
We have strikes at a higher level than they have been since the great depression days of the 1930s. And that is from a government which claims a special relationship with the trade union movement. Before the Government came into office the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  said that under Labor there would be fewer strikes. When asked how he would achieve that he said: 'Because we have a special understanding'. A special understanding is certainly there; that is, that the trade union movement will tell the Government what to do when it chooses to. The spectacle of the Prime Minister of this country knocking on the door of the residence of the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions to get his instructions lowered the dignity of that office immensely. 
The level of demand for housing is approximately 170,000 houses a year. The number of houses that will be built this year will be approximately 120,000, leaving a 50,000 shortfall in demand. From a level of 120,000 it is impossible to jump in one year to a level of 220,000, which would satisfy the current demand plus the backlog of 50,000. There is no way in which that can be done. The consequence is that young people, married, looking for houses, will not be able to obtain them. There will be a housing shortage with its social consequences. The shortage will also drive up the price of housing. What is perfectly clear is the long term economic social impact on this country is immeasurable. It will live with us for a decade. Taking housing, for instance, it will be at least a decade before we can catch up on the housing shortage. The productivity decline because of lack of investment in plant and equipment and modern technology will last for a decade. The social interruption is there, clear to be seen. The economic disruption can be measured by the downturn in all the financial intermediaries which now have no money to lend and companies unable to undertake major development projects. So the level of our export capacity will be down for another 10 years. It will take an immense time to recover. 
There has been no exploration whatever for oil. When we were in government, we encouraged oil exploration. We found the supplies in Bass Strait. Without those supplies Australia would have been in the position of Western Europe, North America and Japan. Our rate of inflation would have been doubled by the energy crisis. But in Australia, because of that exploration, we are able to satisfy- what is it; the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Viner)  knows- 
-Yes, 70 per cent of our requirements. Without that exploration incentive, we would not be able to. But the great tragedy is that, although until 1980 there will be a slight increase in the production from Bass Strait, after 1980 there can be no greater increase. At that point in time there will be a continuing demand for oil. The proportion of Australia's needs that we can fill from our own resources will diminish. Then we will start to become subject to the. energy crisis that is building up. Not a single thing is being done about finding oil today in Australia. Every onshore rig has sailed away to another place. Even our Australian exploring companies are exploring overseas. 
The erratic performance of the Prime Minister and his Ministers and the various agencies they have set up has created an immense problem in Australia. I mention first the Industries Assistance Commission. 'Assistance', the middle word in the title of that body, seems to have departed from the language of the findings of the Industries Assistance Commission. It is now an industries commission which puts forward proposals which cause problems for the Government in the Caucus. Nobody in private industry can have any confidence to plan for the future on the basis of a permanent tariff or of a long term tariff. The Commission has now been asked, in the most extraordinary passage of letters from the Prime Minister to the  Chairman  of that body, whether it will now take the difficult political decisions so that the Government does not have to take them. What an extraordinary abdication by the Government of its responsibility. The responsibility for tariff decisions must be with the Government. It must be the Government's decision; it can be nothing else. 
The Prices Justification Tribunal was set up, but given no statutory instruction whatever as to the way in which it should conduct itself. In the early stages of its operations, all it did was to approve price increases because costs had gone up. Now the Prices Justification Tribunal has acted on the basis of a profit controller and, as a profit controller, it has got into the board rooms and into management and it is deciding the way in which management should conduct its business. The ridiculous stage was reached where the Prices Justification Tribunal would not allow a price increase to compensate for increased productivity. So, the more productivity increased the less a company could put up its prices. There was no incentive whatever for increased productivity. The net result is that if the Prices Justification Tribunal is left to act as it now it acting, there will be no incentive whatever for increased productivity in Australia. 
The Priorities Review Staff has been shopped around. It is now going to the Special Minister of State or SMOS as that portfolio is now called. It picks up all the bits and pieces all over the place. The Priorities Review Staff was set up originally to give advice to the Government about long term priorities. Now it is being used as a substitute for the Treasury and for the Reserve Bank as the immediate economic adviser to the Government. 

 - Dr Coombs was the person who originally set up the proposals which would take away, for instance, education allowances and a whole host of other things. But the Priorities Review Staff does not have the accumulated economic experience and expertise that the Treasury or the Reserve Bank has. The Reserve Bank and the Treasury are now no longer even asked for their views. 
There is no confidence in the economy or the Government's ability to manage it. That is the major point that the person in the street identifies, the total incapacity of the Labor Party to manage the economy. The Government just does not know how to go about it. It goes in one direction and then changes course and goes in an opposite direction. Nobody can have any confidence in it at all. The great difficulty about it is that the Government is not learning. It is getting worse as time goes on. The Government still has no coherent policy as to how it will manage the economy and the way in which future policy will turn out. 
I think that the Australian people are getting fed up with the idea that the Labor Party should be constantly looking for scapegoats that it can blame for the faults in the economy. Remember the days when it was the fault of the multinational corporations. The putative Treasurer, the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns),  who is sitting at the table, was in the United States the other day trying to encourage the multi-nationals to come here and help us out of our problem. Only a short while ago they were the cause of the problem. Then it was the system. It was not the Government's lack of management but the system. If the Government cannot understand the system and if it cannot get the system to work for it in the way that we can and did, then it does not deserve to be in government. The system has been built up over generations, and the system is parliamentary democracy with the Government drawn from the Parliament, which is the Westminster system. 
What the Labor Party wants to do is to govern Australia in the Labor Party Caucus room. It does not want to be bothered with coming into the Parliament. It refuses to allow debate. When was the last time that a Minister was proud enough of the policy he wanted to announce to stand up at the table and say: 'This is the policy of the Government' and then allow the Opposition to examine it and give a response? At question time honourable members opposite stonewall and put up Dorothy Dix questions to Ministers to bat out time after time so that the number of questions asked on average is half of what it was when we were in government. This is only to save the Government the embarrassment of questions. 
There has been a deterioration of the economy worse than that in any other comparable country. Inflation has gone from  4Vi  per cent to 20 per cent. What will the December consumer price index show? It has been leaked that it will show something like 7 per cent. Whether it will be that high or not remains to be seen. Certainly the fall in food prices will mean that the consumer price index will not be as high as was expected. The acceleration of inflation in Australia has been higher than in any of the countries belonging to the Organisations for Economic Co-operation and Development. My colleague, the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch),  made it clear yesterday that we have the highest inflation of all the OECD countries. Had we not escaped the full impact of the energy crisis we would be way out in front. We would win by a mile and receive the prize, if you can call it a prize, for having the highest inflation. 
Unemployment stands at 3.2 per cent and is growing. It will grow quite rapidly. There is no doubt that in December, January, February and probably into March it will continue to grow. The Prime Minister and  Dr Cairns,  the putative Treasurer, have both said that it will get worse for the next 6 months and there is nothing we can do about it. What an abdication of responsibility by the 2 leaders of the Government. They are just prepared to allow it to happen as it would. 
The causes of the economic crisis can be quite simply identified. Government spending and the pace setter principle in 1 973 were at the heart of it. The Government in its first Budget increased Government spending by 23 per cent. In this year's Budget it increased Government spending by  32lA  per cent on that 123 per cent. Spending has built up to the stage where we will have a Budget deficit this year of at least $ 1,850m. That means we will be $ 1,850m in the red- an overdraft, in other words. 
-As the honourable member for Bendigo says, they are always in the red. The wage and pacesetter principle established by the Government lifted up wages. Then the Government encouraged people in the unions to act outside the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, to put their claims by strong arm action and to put pressure on employers- to say: 'Give us better conditions and more wages'. The employers did that and costs and prices increased. Then there was the absurdity of the 25 per cent tariff cut right across the board. We cannot really blame the  Deputy  Prime Minister for that decision because he was not even consulted about it. As soon as the decision was made he complained that he had not been consulted. I never heard him complain that it was a wrong decision, but he complained that he was not consulted. I doubt whether there is now a single member of the Labor Party who would not clearly acknowledge that to be one of the worst economic decisions ever taken by a government. It was taken by 3 members. 
According to this morning's Press the Australian Council of Trade Unions and all union members are concerned about individual industries that have been belted and at unemployment being as high as it has ever been in history. No member of a union has a real recollection of a higher level of unemployment. The textiles and footwear industries are affected. There are problems concerning television and radio sets. The electronics industry generally is affected, as is the motor car industry. There is unemployment in many industries. This situation all feeds back to 2 basic causes. One was the 25 per cent tariff cut and the other was the credit squeeze. 
The Government cannot even act appropriately when it gets a report from the Tariff Board. The honourable member for Henty  (Mrs Child)  will be aware of a factory in her electorateJohns Consolidated Ltd- where a tremendous number of employees have been put off simply because of imported goods coming to Australia and undercutting Johns. Men are being put off at that plant day after day. Johns is now crippled and the Tariff Board acknowledges that imports have seriously damaged that concern. But what did the responsible Minister do? He imposed no penalty whatever on the people who were dumping overseas goods on the Australian market and crippling this industry. Add to that tariffs and the credit squeeze and that industry will go out of existence. The credit squeeze was applied in September 1973. In October 1974 the Government was given the warning: 'Keep this on and there will be a recession in the middle of 1974'. I know the warning was given because I gave it but the Government took no notice and kept the credit squeeze on. By the middle of this year the recession had arisen. Now probably what the Government will do will be to plunge an immense amount of money into the economyinto the private sector- in a desperate effort to bolster it. At the same time, with government spending as it is, we are headed for a level of inflation which we could never have imagined in the past. 
Inflation must be tackled; unemployment must be tackled. Inflation hits the poor and cuts investment, productivity and long term growth. It hits the young home buyers massively. They cannot get a house, they cannot borrow money, and they cannot pay the interest rates which are being charged. Those paying off their homes have had their interest rates raised by 3 per cent and 4 per cent. It may interest the putative Treasurer to know that every 1 per cent increase in the interest rate on mortgages means an extra $100m that home owners have to pay in mortgage repayments. 
-That is so. It has always claimed that it is a low interest party. Students have been hit, supperannuitants have been almost wiped out, tenants are paying higher rents and the person who is making a home available as a rented home even though there is a housing shortage has to pay a 10 per cent surcharge on his income from that home. The thrifty are given no encouragement to save and as savings fall the capacity to invest decreases. Nobody is given encouragement to take out insurance policies because the Government's taxation policies have resulted in bonuses payable on insurance policies falling to about one-third of what they were previously. So where is the incentive to insure? The small investor can have no security. Inflation is increasing at a greater rate than any return he can get from his investment. The small businessman is going out of business. He will have to pay the equivalent of 5 quarters of company tax this year, 4 weeks annual leave and a 17V4 per cent loading on annual leave. 
From where are the small businessmen going to borrow money and, if they can borrow it, how can they afford to pay the interest cost on that money borrowed to keep themselves in business? 
The big danger that Australia faces in 1975 is, in the first half of the year, high inflation and high unemployment and, in the second half of the year, declining unemployment and massively taking-off inflation. The result of that will be a horror Budget to make all previous Budget efforts look like kidstuff. That is what will happen if this Government continues on its erratic path. Not a single statement has been made by any Minister of this Government to say what the course of monetary policy is and what the course of fiscal policy is. Not a single Minister has said: 'In 1975 we want this to happen'. We have not had a single statement to the effect that they want something to happen. All they say is that it is going to be bad. 
I think that is true -the Prime Minister is setting up  Dr Cairns.  But  Dr Cairns  knows no more about how to run the economy than  Mr Crean  knew before him.  Dr Cairns,  the reluctant applicant for other people's jobs, was the author of the Budget that lays buried with Frank Crean under the dust created by the Prime Minister. The  Deputy  Prime Minister,  Dr Cairns,  wants to be all things to all men. He wants to be a left winger when he is with the left wingers, he wants to be a lover of free enterprise when he is with free enterprise, and when he is looking for money overseas he loves the multi-nationals. But let me say to him, if he is looking for Arab money to come into Australia, that what business most wants is long term money, not short term money. We do not want the Arab money to be able to be used to intimidate us in our political stance or our economic stance. The  Deputy  Prime Minister is the man who said in the third Chifley Memorial lecture: 
No one and no government need do anything but learn to live with inflation. 
He is the man who said last week that unemployment in Australia is absolutely trivial. He has said that to say that is to misquote him. If honourable members look at what he said they will find that he said that in international and national terms it is absolutely trivial. So we do not have to worry about inflation and we do not have to worry about unemployment. 
We have only to worry about him. He is being backed up by the Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Mr Enderby)-  the brilliant fellow who said that most of Australia's imports come from overseas. The Minister for Manufacturing Industry is the man who described manufacturers as being frightened of their own shadow. The Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  was the great favourite to become the new Treasurer until he got up in the Caucus and honestly said: 'We are supervising the destruction of the Australian economy'. He ceased to be a candidate. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
What was the operation profit or loss of suburban rail passenger systems in each State in each of the last ten years. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) With reference to his answer to question No. 1199 (Hansard 7 November 1973, page 296 1), what progress has been made in the re-examination of maintaining a central comprehensive record of the employment of persons engaged by the Government to serve as consultants or advisers. 
When is it likely that a decision on the maintenance of such a record will be made. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
With reference to his answer to Question No. 1657, why did not his Department follow normal practice and, after consultation with the Department of the Special Minister of 
State arrange for the Table Office of the, House of Representatives to transfer the question to that Department? 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the current establishment of (a) the Bureau of Roads and ( b ) the Bureau of Transport Economics. 
What is the function of (a) the Bureau of Roads and (b) the Bureau of Transport Economics. 
Does the Government intend to amalgamate- the Bureaux; if so when; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
How many graduates have enrolled to undertake Ph.D. courses in (a) physics, (b) chemistry, (c) biology, (d) geology (e) geography, (f) psychology, (g) social welfare and (h) mathematics at each university in Australia in each of the last 10 years? 
What is the expected enrolment in each course for Ph.D. degrees in each of the next 5 years? 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) For what purpose has the Department used management consultant firms in the last twelve months. 
Which firms have been used. 
3 ) What was the total cost. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
1 ) Will the Attorney-General provide a list of all formal committees, councils, etc., that have been established which enable him or officers of his Department to maintain contact with State Government Ministers or State Government officers. 
When was each body established and by whom. 
What is the (a) composition and (b) function of each body. 
On what occasions has each body met in the last 2 years and for what purpose. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) Will he provide a list of all formal committees, councils, etc., that have been established which enable him or officers of his Department to maintain contact with State Government Ministers or State Government officers. 
When was each body established and by whom. 
What is the (a) composition and (b) function of each body. 
On what occasions has each body met in the last two years and for what purpose. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation, upon notice: 
With reference to the answer to question No. 548 (Hansard, 19 September 1974, page 1632) in which the Prime Minister indicated that the form and frequency of exercises in Government Departments in civil defence preparedness are as determined by individual Departments, on what dates in the last 1 8 months have exercises of this nature been conducted in the Department of Repatriation and Compensation. 
Which officers and employees took part. 
How many officers and employees took part. 
What was the purpose of each of the exercises. 
Does the Minister accept that this is an area where the Australian Government can give a lead to other employers. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) How many social welfare workers are there in each State and Territory. 
What is the ratio of population to social welfare workers in each municipality of each State and in each Territory. 
What is considered a desirable ratio of population to social welfare workers. 
How many short of this desirable level is Australia at present. 
5 ) How does he intend to overcome this short-fall. 
How long will it take to overcome the short-fall. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) With reference to his answer to my question in the House of Representatives on 22 October 1974 concerning Indonesia's attitude to nuclear armaments, has he sought the Indonesian Government's attitude to ratification of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty; if so, what is its attitude. 
If Indonesia has said it will not ratify the Treaty, what action has the Government taken to persuade it to do so. 
Has his attention been drawn to the indication by the Indonesian Ambassador to Australia, on an ABC television program, This Day Tonight, on 22 October 1974, that the Indonesian Government would keep its options open on the development of nuclear weapons. 
Will he undertake to begin discussions immediately with the Indonesian Government to clarify its attitude on the development of nuclear weapons and the Nuclear NonProliferation Treaty. 
What further action will he take in this matter which is of fundamental importance to Australia. 
asked the Minister for the Environment and Conservation, upon notice: 
1 ) How are copies of Ministerial press releases circulated. 
To whom are they circulated. 
How many copies are circulated in total. 
What is the total annual cost, including salary and administration charges, in producing and distributing Ministerial press releases. 
How many public servants in his Department are involved with distribution of press releases. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
With reference to the answer to Question No. 365 (Hansard, 30 July 1974 page 831), did he state in opening the Industrial Peace Conference that an in-depth study is under way in his Department to compile and assess material relating to household expenditure so that this kind of information can be made available to employers, unions and the commission for national wage cases. 
) If so, has this study been completed, and what were the results. 
If the study has not been completed, what progress has been made, and what is the exact purpose of the study. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
asked the Minister for the Environment and Conservation, upon notice: 
1 ) How many positions will be provided in the Bureau of Environmental Studies. 
What will be the classification and function of each position. 
How many of the positions have been filled, and by whom. 
When is it expected that all positions will be filled. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) With reference to the answer to question No. 7 1 7 of 3 1 May 1973 in which the Minister for Science indicated that the Department of Health undertakes activities which bear directly or indirectly on consumer protection, which section or sections of his Department are involved in such activities. 
What are those activities. 
How many officers of his Department are involved in this work. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
1 ) How many people in each subdivision of the Electoral Division of Bruce are unemployed at the present time. 
How many of those unemployed are registered for unemployment. 
) How many are receiving unemployment benefits. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Will he provide a list of all formal committees, councils, etc, that have been established which enable him or officers of his Department to maintain contact with State Government Ministers or State Government officers. 
When was each body established and by whom. 
What is the (a) composition and (b) function of each body. 
On what occasions has each body met in the last 2 years and for what purpose. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
How many women have been appointed to senior positions in his Department since 2 December 1972. 
Who are they. 
To what position has each been appointed and what is the function of the position. 
asked the Minister for Science, upon notice: 
Will he provide a list of all solar energy research projects being undertaken in Australia which are receiving financial support from the Government. 
2 ) What proportion does this represent of funds allocated by all sources in Australia to research projects into the applied use of solar energy. 
3 ) What is the purpose of each project. 
How many people are involved in each project. 
5 ) Where is the research being undertaken. 
What support is the Government providing for each project, and how is it provided. 
asked the Minister for Manufacturing Industry, upon notice: 
With reference to the answer to question No. 548 (Hansard, 19 September 1974, page 1621) in which the Prime Minister indicated that the form and frequency of exercises in Government Departments in civil defence preparedness are as determined by individual Departments, on what dates in the last 1 8 months have exercises of this nature been conducted in his Department. 
) Which officers and employees took pan. 
How many officers and employees took pan. 
What was the purpose of each of the exercises. 
Does he accept that this is an area where the Australian Government can give a lead to other employers. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise, upon notice: 
How are copies of Ministerial press releases circulated. 
To whom are they circulated. 
How many copies are circulated in total. 
What is the total annual cost, including salary and administration charges, in producing and distributing Ministerial press releases. 
How many public servants in the Department of Customs and Excise are involved with the distribution of press releases. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) How are copies of Ministerial press releases circulated. 
To whom are they circulated. 
How many copies are circulated in total. 
What is the total annual cost, including salary and administration charges, in producing and distributing Ministerial press releases. 
How many public servants in the Department of Foreign Affairs are involved with the distribution of press releases. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Which Minister is responsible for population policy. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) With reference to the answer to question No. 1227 (Hansard, 31 October 1974, page 3264) in which he informed me that Australia is not yet a full party to the Biological 
Weapons Convention, what domestic legislation needs to be enacted before Australia can ratify the Convention. 
When is it expected that this legislation will be enacted. 
When is it expected that Australia will ratify the Convention. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
1 ) Which community broadcasting groups did the Priorities Review Staff consult in the preparation of its report on the expansion of radio services in Australia. 
When were they consulted. 
What form did the consultations take. 

 - Mr Speaker, it is unfortunate that this motion has to be moved. The Opposition will not oppose it- let me say that at the outset- but I repeat, it is very unfortunate that it has to be moved. Briefly, the history of this resolution is that it resulted from a concern which I personally have about a great number of children who have word blindness, and beyond that such things as an intellectual capacity which is not matched by the education they actually receive at school, and they are emerging from the school system not properly and fully educated. I wanted this matter to be treated as an issue of national purpose; I did not want any politics in it at all. I approached the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  put my point of view to him and asked for his co-operation in ensuring that it be totally non-political. As I explained in the House at the time, the Prime Minister immediately and without any demur whatever acknowledged the national purpose and acknowledged his willingness to engage in this exercise in a totally non-political way. In accordance with our arrangement, I then sent to the Prime Minister some proposed terms of reference. Included in the proposed terms of reference was a proposal that the  chairman  of the committee ought to be appointed by the Leader of the Opposition, it having been I who had first raised the matter. In the absence of the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister's staff asked if I would delete that proposal because they could not agree to the Leader of the Opposition appointing the  chairman  without the concurrence of the Prime Minister. I therefore withdrew any proposal from the resolution as to who should be the  chairman,  and the resolution thus went through the House without any specific provision about who should be the  chairman. 
By the curiosity of the Standing Orders we were in the position where committee members on one side of the House could appoint the  chairman,  but the  chairman  would not have a deliberative vote and so committee members from the other side of the House would actually have a majority of the votes. That is, if the Government appointed the  chairman,  the 2 members of the Liberal Party and the one member of the Country Party would represent 3 votes and there would be only 2 votes from the Government side. To me, that did not matter; I do not think that there will be a vote necessary in the committee. I know from discussions with my 2 colleagues,  Mr Wilson  and  Mr Cadman,  and with  Mr McVeigh  from the Country Party, that they approach this in a truly national purpose way and I should expect that committee members from the Government side would approach it in the same way. Therefore, it was an issue that did not really matter. But then unfortunately it did matter, and it mattered in this way. While I was speaking in the House and raising the issue, the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Mathews)  interjected in such a way as disclosed that on his part he was politically motivated on the issue. I had to firmly but gently reprimand him, not only for the interjection but for the nature of it. The honourable member for Casey followed me in speaking and reference to the speech that he made discloses that he positively wanted to pursue this in a political way. This disappointed me bitterly because I know that I can believe the Prime Minister's intention that it should be totally non-political, and there at the outset it was being converted into a political issue. 
For that reason, when I learned that the Government proposed that the honourable member for Casey be the  chairman  of this committee I said that so far as 1 was concerned it was improper for the committee to be set up under the chairmanship of the honourable member for Casey, who so obviously wanted to politicise the committee. As a result of that, my colleague  Mr Wilson,  whom I had wanted to nominate as  chairman,  discussed the matter and he told me that pressure was being brought to bear to resolve the matter and I became very unhappy about it. What the Labor Party has now decided is that, come hell or high water, it is going to appoint the  chairman  and, come hell or high water, it is going to be the honourable member for Casey. I feel that that is a gross adulteration of the national purpose which the Prime Minister and I agreed to on a non-political basis; but the fact is that the Government does have the numbers to carry this. Facing that, the Opposition cannot object on the basis of numbers. 
I think it is important to say that the Opposition will not divide on this matter, it will not oppose it. The Opposition trusts that if the honourable member for Casey is to be the chairmanand I must say very frankly that I should prefer any other member from the Government side to be  chairman  rather than the honourable member for Casey- I implore him to forget his own personal political interests and to pursue this solely on a national purpose basis, totally without politics. My expectation is that the committee ought to be able to proceed without there ever needing to be a single vote on any issue, because the goodwill of all the members of the committee ought to determine a matter. 
asked the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice: 
Will he provide a list of all formal committees, councils, etc., that have been established which enable him or officers of his Department to maintain contact with State Government Ministers or State Government officers. 
When was each body established and by whom. 
What is the (a) composition and (b) function of each body. 
On what occasions has each body met in the last 2 years and for what purpose. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
How many multi-purpose centres have been established with special Australian Government capital grants since 2 December 1972. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) What action has the Government taken to assist the 3 million Jewish people in the Soviet Union. 
Have any arrangements been (a) made or (b) sought, through the Soviet authorities, to facilitate the migration to Australia of these people if they wish to do so. 
If no such action has been taken, will he raise this matter when in the Soviet Union, 
Will he also ask the Soviet Union to end its oppression of these people. 
What other action will he take to assist the 3 million Jewish people in the Soviet Union. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) How many of the items in the Coombs Task Force Report have subsequently been effected by decisions of the Government. 
Which items are involved. 
3 ) What is the reference source of each decision. 
asked the Minister for the Environment and Conservation, upon notice: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to a process developed by a South Australian company, Refuse Conversion Pty Ltd, to convert domestic rubbish into cheap house bricks. 
If so, has he examined this process or will he undertake to examine it in collaboration with the Minister for Housing and Construction. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Which municipalities have been given finance under metropolitan and rural unemployment relief schemes between December 1972 and September 1973, and how much finance has been provided to each. 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
1 ) How are copies of Ministerial press releases circulated. 
To whom are they circulated. 
3 ) How many copies are circulated in total. 
What is the total annual cost, including salary and administration charges, in producing and distributing Ministerial press releases. 
How many public servants in his Department are involved with the distribution of press releases. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) With reference to the answer to question No. 553 (Hansard, 30 July 1974, page 832) where will the Independent Appeals Tribunals for people in receipt of social service benefits be established. 
How will they operate. 
3 ) Will they comprise public servants. 
If not. what type of person will be appointed to the Tribunals. 
What will be the precise function of the Tribunals. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Manufacturing Industry. A question was asked a couple of questions ago with reference to the importation of sandals by the retailers, Myers. At that time comments were made in relation to the support of that organisation. I take this opportunity, if I may have that indulgence, to say that one very leading member of Myers in 1972 did announce his support for the Australian Labor Party. I would be terribly surprised if he still supports that Party. The great majority of the Myers staff and management I am sure very strongly support the Liberal Party. 
-The Loan Bill 1974 is described by the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  as a machinery measure designed to meet legal and constitutional requirements associated with the Government's financial transactions and accounting arrangements. It may be described as a machinery measure but it is far from a usual measure; it is a most unusual measure in that for a Bill - 
-The honourable gentleman intervenes and says it is not for the first time. That is certainly true but it is of the order of three to four months earlier than any prior Bill of the same kind and, secondly, it will be of a magnitude the like of which has never been thought of before. It all arises out of the decisions which the Government has taken in relation to spending and in relation to the economic management of this country which is going to lead to a $ 1,850m deficit. That is essentially where it all flows from. In the past there were some similar Bills. My recollection is that I have introduced a similar Bill myself but it was for a different purpose. This Bill will operate in a reverse direction. A provision in the Constitution provides that the surplus revenues of the Commonwealth must be distributed among the States and it has been the practice of successive governments to make sure that there is no surplus in the Consolidated Revenue Fund. The net result is that the Government transfers the money out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund into the Defence Trust Account so there is no surplus to be distributed. All governments have done that and it is a time honoured practice. In the early days the States protested greatly but that protest has now been muted. 
The present situation is quite different. On this occasion, rather than there being a surplus out of which money comes from the Consolidated Revenue Fund into the Defence Trust Account, the Consolidated Revenue Fund will be in deficit very substantially. There will certainly be no surplus which may be called upon to be distributed; there will be a serious shortfall. I am sure that the Treasurer cannot give me more than an estimate of what that shortfall will be but it is likely to be of the order of $700m. Of course, the $700m shortfall in the Consolidated Revenue Fund is not to be confused with the overall Budget result, which will be a deficit of $ 1,850m or more. The deficit may be more because of Government spending decisions or it may be less because of the significant jump in average weekly earnings which will throw out the estimates of the Treasury, but I will come to that in a moment. 
-Let us hope the wool position does improve; let us hope the beef position improves; let us hope manufacturing industry improves; and let us hope that the Government improves. In the past, any Bill of this nature has had a different basic purpose. Although precedents can be used to argue for the validity of this Bill, it is difficult to say that they are direct precedents. The other major point is that these Bills that represent precedents of any kind have always come into the House in March, April or perhaps even as late as May. This Bill has come in in December and I have no doubt that the Treasury officers, when they were privileged to learn what the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  was going to say on that Tuesday in November when he announced economic measures, threw their hands up in horror and said: 'What are we going to do about the Consolidated Revenue Fund?' I have no doubt that they very quickly put a submission to the Treasurer saying: 'Do you realise the sort of trouble you are going to be faced with?' How could the Consolidated Revenue Fund be financed from this immense deficit of probably $700m? They suggested that the precedents should be argued to satisfy bringing in a Bill of this character now. 
According to the second reading speech of the Treasurer the purpose of the Bill is to allow all the defence expenditure from 1 January 1975- that is for half the financial year- to be funded out of the Defence Trust Account. The Parliament passed legislation to appropriate money for defence of the order of, for simplicity, $ 1,500m. However, that $ 1.5m is not to be spent out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund as one would have expected it to be spent when the Appropriation Bill passed through the House. Half of that amount- the amount that accumulates from 1 January 1975- is to be spent out of the Defence Trust Account; so there will be the incredible situation of half the total spending on defence coming out of the Trust Account. This will enable the Government to save itself from running down the Consolidated Revenue Fund. The money will come out of the Defence Trust Account but sooner or later it has to be put back. All it means is that this is a method of internal manipulation of the books so that the fund required to be in balance is in balance and the other is way out of balance. Then there can be further internal manipulations to try to bring the Defence Trust Account into balance also. 
-It is submarine subterfuge, as the honourable member for Corangamite says. 
I do not know whether the Treasurer means the Shakespearian character Ariel or whether he has in mind an aeroplane. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
How many applications for literary grants were rejected in the recent allocation of funds by the Literature Board of the Australian Council for the Arts. 
What percentage does this represent of all applications. 
What are the names of those who were unsuccessful. 
What was the amount sought, and what was the purpose of these unsuccessful applications. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the name of each publication prepared by the Department of the Media for distribution to the public. 
) How often is the publication printed. 
Which offices of the Department are responsible for the preparation of each publication. 
What is the purpose of each publication. 
5 ) What is the cost of each edition of the publication. 
How many copies of each edition of the publication are produced. 
How many people receive the publication. 
8 ) Is it distributed free of charge. 
If so, to whom and how is it distributed to them. 
10) If not, what is the selling cost of the publication and what are the retail outlets. 
When was the publication first produced. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
1 ) Will the Minister provide a list of all formal committees, councils, etc., that have been established which enable him or officers of his Department to maintain contact with State Government Ministers or State Government officers. 
When was each body established and by whom. 
What is the (a) composition and (b) function of each body. 
On what occasions has each body met in the last 2 years and for what purpose. 
asked the Minister for Science, upon notice: 
1 ) Will he provide a list of all formal committees, councils, etc., that have been established which enable him or officers of his Department to maintain contact with State Government Ministers or State Government officers? 
When was each body established and by whom. 
What is the (a) composition and (b) function of each body. 
On what occasions has each body met in the last 2 years and for what purpose. 
I ask for leave to make a statement. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) Do the Budget papers forecast that average actual employment will rise by only 2 per cent during 1974-75, compared to 4.5 per cent growth in 1 973-74. 
What is the estimated growth in the work force over the same period. 
What is the average level of unemployment implied by these figures. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
How many people suffering from chronic alcoholism are in receipt of an invalid pension. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
What are the categories for the granting of invalid pensions. 
How many people, men and women, are in each category. 
) What is the age structure of recipients in each category. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the function and composition of the Research Grants Advisory Committee established by the Social Welfare Commission under section 1 7 of its Act. 
What progress has the committee made to date. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) With reference to the answer to question No. 349 (Hansard, 23 August 1974, page 1 186) in which he indicated that it is established policy to re-locate the Merrett Rifle Range at Williamstown, Melbourne, what progress has been made in its re-location. 
How much of the 300 acres of the range has been released to date. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Which Minister is responsible for control of food standards. 
2 ) Will that Minister maintain responsibility for this function. 
asked the Minister for Science, upon notice: 
1 ) With reference to the answer to Question No. 548 (Hansard 19 September 1974, page 1621) in which the Prime Minister indicated that the form and frequency of exercises in Government Departments in civil defence preparedness are as determined by individual Departments, on what dates in the last 1 8 months have exercises of this nature been conducted in his Department. 
Which officers and employees took part. 
How many officers and employees took part. 
What was the purpose of each of the exercises. 
Does he accept that this is an area where the Australian Government can give a lead to other employers. 
asked the Minister for Services and Property, upon notice: 
What is the equivalent of municipal rates the Australian Government calculated and agreed to pay to local government on housing erected or purchased for domestic purposes during 1972-73 and 1973-74. 
asked the Minister for Services and Property, upon notice: 
1 ) How are copies of Ministerial press releases circulated. 
) To whom are they circulated. 
) How many copies are circulated in total. 
What is the total annual cost, including salary and administration charges, in producing and distributing Ministerial press releases. 
How many public servants in his Department are involved with the distribution of press releases. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to an article published in the Australian Financial Review on 16 May 1973, reporting discussions he had with representatives of the Australian Automobile Association, which said that  Mr Whitlam  did not believe a Labor Government would further decrease the percentage of fuel tax finance now allocated to roads. 
Did the publication Royal Auto (RACV) of June 1972 confirm this statement by the Australian Financial Review. 
Did these articles correctly record the discussions he had with representatives of the Australian Automobile Association in April 1972. 
If not, what action did he take to refute them. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation, upon notice: 
Will the Minister provide a list of all formal committees, councils, etc., that have been established which enable him or officers of his Department to maintain contact with State Government Ministers or State Government officers. 
When was each body established and by whom. 
What is the (a) composition and (b) function of each body. 
On what occasions has each body met in the last 2 years and for what purpose. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
1 ) How many women have been appointed to senior positions in his Department since 2 December 1972. 
Who are they. 
To what position has each been appointed, and what is the function of the position. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the membership of the committee of Commonwealth and State officials that has been established to report on the planned development of national highways. 
What are the terms of reference of the committee and when is it expected that the committee will finalise its studies. 
Will the committee be preparing a report for the Government. 
If so, when is it expected that this report will be received, and will it be tabled. 
What is the membership of the special study team that has carried out research for this report. 
What was the nature of the research undertaken by the study team. 
Has the study team submitted a report to the Government. 
If so, will he table the report for the information of Members without undue delay. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the Department of Immigration maintain a record of interdepartmental committees in which it participated. 
If not, then how was the Minister for Immigration aware of all the interdepartmental consultations in which his Department was involved through interdepartmental committees. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
Does his Department maintain a record of interdepartmental committees in which it participates. 
If not, then how is he aware of all the interdepartmental consultations in which his Department is involved through interdepartmental committees. 
Will he ensure that such a list is in future available to him. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) How many officers in his Department have been given some form of formal training in financial or auditing procedures used in Commonwealth departments in the last 12 months. 
What is the division and classification of these officers. 
How many of these officers were in operational, as distinct from financial or accounting, positions in the Service. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the present staff and establishment of the comprehensive information service being set up in his Department. 
What are its projected arrangements. 
What is the function of each position created or proposed. 
Has the information service compiled a list of various groups involved in urban and regional development including (a) resident action groups, (b) progress associations, (c) local government associations, (d) academics and (e) developers. 
5 ) If so, will he incorporate a copy of the list in Hansard. 
If not, when will this list be complied, and will he make a copy available. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What are the names of all the district nursing services within Australia, what are the annual costs of these services, how many people are served by these services, and what contributions does the Government make to their capital and recurrent expenditure. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
With reference to the answer to question No. 548 (Hansard, 19 September 1974, page 1621) in which the Prime Minister indicated that the form and frequency of exercises of Government Departments in civil defence preparedness are as determined by individual Departments, on what dates in the last 18 months have exercises of this nature been conducted in his Department. 
Which officers and employees took part. 
How many officers and employees took part. 
What was the purpose of each of the exercises. 
Does he accept that this is an area where the Australian Government can give a lead to other employers. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) When did the Government receive the report from the Public Service Board which resulted from the inquiry the Board conducted into action being taken by departments to ensure that man-power savings were achieved in the implementation of recommendations of the Coombs Report and that staff involved were transferred to priority areas of administration. 
) When was the report considered by the Government. 
3 ) What was the outcome of that consideration. 
Does the Government intend to make the report public; if so, why has there been a delay in making the report public; if not, why not. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What is the salary of each person who has been appointed to a Commission of Inquiry or Task Force established by the Government since 2 December 1972. 
What was the previous position held by each person, and for those who were public servants what was their previous salary. 
For those who were not public servants what is the accepted salary range of the position previously held by them. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
How many (a) women and (b) men have sat on selection panels, tribunals and other appeal boards established under the Public Service Act in the last 1 2 months. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
Will he provide a list of all Inquiries relating to immigration since 2 December 1972. 
Which Inquiries have resulted in reports to the Government. 
3 ) When were they received by the Government. 
When were they tabled. 
What was the purpose of each Inquiry. 
What action has been taken on each of the recommendations of each of the Inquiries. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the function of the community development officer who has been appointed for the new city of Tuggeranong. 
How many community development officers have been appointed in the A.C.T. 
To which suburbs have they been appointed. 
Who are they. 
Does the Government intend to appoint additional community development officers. 
If so, how many and when, and in which suburbs or cities. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) For which statutory authorities does the Government (a) have authority and (b) not have authority to set a limit on growth of personnel. 
For which of those authorities for which the Government does possess power to set a growth limit has the Government set a limit or target. 
What was the total employment in all statutory authorities as at 2 December 1972. 
What is the current employment. 
What is the percentage increase in total employment since 2 December 1972. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
With reference to the answer to question No. 368, in which he advised me that statistics of immigrants arriving in Australia in 1973 who had relatives already resident in Australia were not available, does he intend to record this type of information in the future, or is it something in which he is not interested. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) How are copies of ministerial press releases circulated. 
To whom are they circulated. 
How many copies are circulated in total. 
What is the total annual cost, including salary and administration charges, in producing and distributing ministerial press releases. 
How many public servants in his Department are involved in the distribution of press releases. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Has mobility within the Australian Public Service, between the Australian Public Service and private industry and between the Australian Public Service and State Public Services increased since 2 December 1 972. 
How is any increased mobility measured. 
) Will he incorporate a table showing this increase. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
With reference to the answer to Question No. 1201 (Hansard, 12 December 1973, page 4667) in which he provided me with details of positions abolished in each Department in 1972-73, who initiates the process of reviewing possible redundant positions in departments. 
Does the Permanent Head of each department have a part to play in this process. 
If so, how does he undertake this role. 
How many of the 2,765 positions abolished in 1972-73 were substituted by the creation of another position. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
With reference to the answer to question No. 799 (Hansard, 3 October 1974, page 2267), in which the Minister informed me that the Department of Agriculture spent $56,769 in having McKinsey and Company Inc., London, review the management structure and organisation of the International Wool Secretariat, what was the outcome of this review. 
asked the Minister for Services and Property, upon notice: 
What programs does his Department or statutory authorities under his control administer which enable individual groups or people in the community to apply for grants from the Australian Government for a specific purpose. 
What is the name of each program. 
What is the purpose of each program. 
What are the conditions surrounding eligibility for a grant under each program. 
5 ) When did each program commence 
What is the legal authority for the existence of each program. 
How is the community informed of the existence of each program, and its entitlement to apply for a grant. 
How many applications for grants under each program have been received in each of the last 3 years or for the period of operation of the program if it has been in operation less than 3 years. 
Who decides which applications for grants should be accepted. 
What percentage of applications for grants under each program has been successful in each of the last 3 years or in each of the years in which the program has been operating if it has been in operation for less than 3 years. 
What proportion of total funds allocated under each program in each of the last 3 years, or in each year the program has been operating where it has been in operation for less than 3 years, has been allocated to individuals as against groups. 
Are any attempts made to assess the extent to which the widest cross-section of the community is aware of the existence of the program, and the means by which applications can be submitted; if so, what attempts. 
What checks are made once applications are received for each program to determine if the attempts to widen access to the funds have been successful. 
14) Is he confident that the widest cross-section of the community is aware of the existence of the programs, and is aware of the application process. 
What procedures exist to assess the use to which the grants are being put, and to attempt some accountability for the money granted. 
What is the total amount that has been paid out under each program in each of the last 3 years or in each year of the operation of the program if it has been operating for less than 3 years. 
17) What is the total amount of money paid out for all such programs administered by his Department or authorities under his control. 
What attempts are made to ensure that the same individual organisations or persons do not receive several grants under different programs which he or other Ministers are responsible for and which, when added together, may be unwarranted. 
asked the Minister for Northern Development, upon notice: 
What programs does his Department or statutory authorities under his control administer which enable individual groups or people in the community to apply for grants from the Australian Government for a specific purpose. 
What is the name of each program. 
What is the purpose of each program. 
What are the conditions surrounding eligibility for a grant under each program. 
5 ) When did each program commence. 
What is the legal authority for the existence of each program. 
How is the community informed of the existence of each program, and its entitlement to apply for a grant. 
How many applications for grants under each program have been received in each of the last 3 years or for the period of operation of the program if it has been in operation less than 3 years. 
Who decides which applications for grants should be accepted. 
What percentage of applications for grants under each program have been successful in each of the last 3 years or in each of the years in which the program has been operating if it has been in operation for less than 3 years. 
What proportion of total funds allocated under each program in each of the last 3 years, or in each year the program has been operating where it has been in operation for less than 3 years, have been allocated to individuals as' against groups. 
Are any attempts made to assess the extent to which the widest cross-section of the community is aware of the existence of the program, and the means by which applications can be submitted; if so what attempts. 
What checks are made once applications are received for each program to determine if the attempts to widen access to the funds have been successful. 
Is he confident that the widest cross-section of the community is aware of the existence of the programs, and is aware of the application process. 
What procedures exist to assess the use to which the grants are being put, and to attempt some accountability for the money granted. 
What is the total amount that has been paid out under each program in each of the last 3 years or in each year of the operation of the program if it has been operating for less than 3 years. 
17) What is the total amount of money paid out for all such programs administered by his Department or authorities under his control. 
What attempts are made to ensure that the same individual organisations or persons do not receive several grants under different programs which he or other Ministers are responsible for and which, when added together, may be unwarranted. , 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
1 ) How are copies of Ministerial press releases circulated. 
To whom are they circulated. 
) How many copies are circulated in total. 
What is the total annual cost, including salary and administration charges, in producing and distributing Ministerial press releases. 
How many public servants in his Department are involved with the distribution of press releases. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
1 ) With reference to the answer to question No 2 1 1 (Hansard, 30 July 1974, page 832) concerning the establishment of a bureau within the Department of Labor and Immigration as discussed at the Industrial Peace Conference, what progress has been made in the considerations of the Government. 
When is it expected that the bureau will be operating. 
Does the delay in establishing the bureau indicate that the Government has afforded it low priority. 
If not, why has there been such a long delay in establishing the bureau. 
asked the Special Minister of State, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the mean time for and standard deviation from the mean for a person wishing to access the National Archives being granted permission. 
What is the mean time and standard deviation from the mean following permission being granted that the person actually sees these archives. 
asked the Special Minister of State, upon notice: 
1 ) How many refusals in respect of access to archives have there been since 2 December 1 972. 
Who was refused access and for what reason, and who refused access in each case. 
asked the Treasurer upon notice: 
What economic planning machinery has the Government established since 2 December 1 972. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
1 ) How many applications have been accepted since June 1974 for nominations involving (a) spouses, (b) dependent children, (c) dependent parents and (d ) fiances. 
How many applications have been received since June 1 974 but not yet accepted. 
How many applications are expected to be received by June 1975. 
How many of these applications are expected to be accepted by the end of June 1975. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
With reference to the answer to question No. 765 (Hansard, 17 October 1974, page 2573) how were the 472 migrant women selected to receive assistance under the home tutor training program. 
How many migrant women have sought assistance under this program since its inception. 
What procedures are adopted to evaluate the success of the program. 
Is any Government assistance given to women who volunteer to undertake home tutoring. 
) How many migrant women are in need of this type of training and assistance. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
Will he provide more detailed information to me concerning the nature of the following research projects that will be undertaken in 1975 with Government grants following the recommendations of the Australian Advisory Committee on Research and Development in Education: (a) to develop a screening test that will differentiate children with motor development problems that could be alleviated by a special physical education program (Miss J. Calder), (b) a program to develop the cognitive skills of visually handicapped children  (Mr P. J. Doherty ), (c)  development of language problems based on the developing oral language structures used by  2Vi, y/i,  4VS,  5Vi  and 614 year old children  (Dr N. W. M. Hart)  and (d) information technology and the education system (Professor D. M. Lamberton). 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the emergency housing committee? 
What hash done? 
asked the Minister for Science, upon notice: 
1 ) Who makes the decision on the allocation of funds that are provided to the CSIRO to undertake scientific research. 
What pan does he play in this process. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) How many pharmacists are there in each State and Territory. 
Where are they employed and, in particular, how many work in (a) general hospitals, (b) rehabilitation hospitals and (c) private hospitals. 
What training courses are available for pharmacists. 
Where are the courses given. 
What is the training program required to qualify as a pharmacist in each State and Territory. 
What is the salary structure in each State and Territory for a pharmacist. 
How many people are training at each institute in which courses are available. 
What is the estimated requirement for pharmacists in each State and Territory in 1980. 
Under current trends what will be the actual supply of pharmacists in 1 980. 
1 0) If there is an estimated shortfall in the supply of pharmacists in 1 980, what action is proposed to overcome it. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) How many nucleographers are there in each State and Territory. 
Where are they employed and, in particular, how many work in (a) general hospitals, (b) rehabilitation hospitals and (c) private hospitals. 
What training courses are available for nucleographers 
Where are the courses given. 
What is the training program required to qualify as a nucleographer in each State and Territory. 
6 ) What is the salary structure in each State and Territory for a nucleographer. 
How many people are training at each institute in which courses are available. 
What is the estimated requirement for nucleographers in each State and Territory in 1 980. 
Under current trends what will be the actual supply of  nucleographers in 1980. 
10) If there is an estimated shortfall in the supply of  nucleographers in 1980, what action is proposed to overcome it. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) How many radiographers are there in each State and Territory. 
Where are they employed and, in particular, how many work in (a) general hospitals, (b) rehabilitation hospitals and (c) private hospitals. 
) What training courses are available for radiographers. 
Where are the courses given. 
What is the training program required to qualify as a radiographer in each State and Territory. 
What is the salary structure in each State and Territory for a radiographer. 
How many people are training at each institute in which courses are available. 
What is the estimated requirement for radiographers in each State and Territory in 1 980. 
Under current trends what will be the actual supply of radiographers in 1980. 
If there is an estimated shortfall in the supply of radiographers in 1 980, what action is proposed to overcome it. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
How many chiropodists are there in each State and Territory. 
Where are they employed and, in particular, how many work in (a) general hospitals, (b) rehabilitation hospitals and (c) private hospitals. 
3 ) What training courses are available for chiropodists. 
Where are the courses given. 
What is the training program required to qualify as a chiropodist in each State and Territory. 
What is the salary structure in each State and Territory for a chiropodist. 
How many people are training at each institute in which courses are available. 
What is the estimated requirement for chiropodists in each State and Territory in 1 980. 
Under current trends what will be the actual supply of chiropodists in 1980. 
10) If there is an estimated shortfall in the supply of chiropodists in 1 980, what action is proposed to overcome it. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
How many electrocardiographic technicians are there in each State and Territory. 
Where are they employed and, in particular, how many work in (a) general hospitals, (b) rehabilitation hospitals and (c) private hospitals. 
What training courses are available for electrocardiographic technicians. 
Where are the courses given. 
What is the training program required to qualify as an electrocardiographic technician in each State and Territory. 
What is the salary structure in each State and Territory for an electrocardiographic technician. 
How many people are training at each institute in which courses are available. 
What is the estimated requirement for electrocardiographic technicians in each State and Territory in 1 980. 
Under current trends what will be the actual supply of electrocardiographic technicians in 1980. 
1 0) If there is an estimated shortfall in the supply of electrocardiographic technicians in 1980, what action is proposed to overcome it. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
How many dieticians are there in each State and Territory. 
Where are they employed and, in particular, how many work in (a) general hospitals, (b) rehabilitation hospitals and (c) private hospitals. 
) What training courses are available for dieticians. 
Where are the courses given. 
What is the training program required to qualify as a dietician in each State and Territory. 
What is the salary structure in each State and Territory for a dietician. 
How many people are training at each institute in which courses are available. 
What is the estimated requirement for dieticians in each State and Territory in 1980. 
Under current trends what will be the actual supply of dieticians in 1980. 
10) If there is an estimated shortfall in the supply of dieticians in 1 980, what action is proposed to overcome it. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) How many electroencephaletic technicians are there in each State and Territory. 
Where are they employed and, in particular, how many work in (a) general hospitals, (b) rehabilitation hospitals and (c) private hospitals. 
What training courses are available for electroencephaletic technicians. 
Where are the courses given. 
) What is the training program required to qualify as an electroencephaletic technician in each State and Territory. 
What is the salary structure in each State and Territory for an electroencephaletic technician. 
How many people are training at each institute in which courses are available. 
What is the estimated requirement for electroencephaletic technicians in each State and Territory in 1 980. 
Under current trends what will be the actual supply of electroencephaletic technicians in 1 980. 
1 0) If there is an estimated shortfall in the supply of electroencephaletic technicians in 1980, what action is proposed to overcome it. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
How many social workers are there in each State and Territory. 
Where are they employed and, in particular, how many work in (a) general hospitals, (b) rehabilitation hospitals and (c) private hospitals. 
3 ) What training courses are available for social workers. 
Where are the courses given. 
What is the training program required to qualify as a social worker in each State and Territory. 
What is the salary structure in each State and Territory for a social worker. 
How many people are training at each institute in which courses are available. 
What is the estimated requirement for social workers in each State and Territory in 1 980. 
Under current trends what will be the actual supply of social workers in 1980. 
If there is an estimated shortfall in the supply of social workers in 1 980, what action is proposed to overcome it. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) How many bacteriologists are there in each State and Territory. 
Where are they employed and, in particular, how many work in (a) general hospitals, (b) rehabilitation hospitals and (c) private hospitals. 
3 ) What training courses are available for bacteriologists. 
Where are the courses given. 
What is the training program required to qualify as a bacteriologist in each State and Territory. 
What is the salary structure in each State and Territory for a bacteriologist. 
How many people are training at each institute in which courses are available. 
What is the estimated requirement for bacteriologists in each State and Territory in 1 980. 
Under current trends what will be the actual supply of bacteriologists in 1980. 
10) If there is an estimated shortfall in the supply of bacteriologists in 1 980, what action is proposed to overcome it. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) How many remedial gymnasts are there in each State and Territory. 
Where are they employed and, in particular, how many work in (a) general hospitals, (b) rehabilitation hospitals and (c) private hospitals. 
What training courses are available for remedial gymnasts. 
Where are the courses given. 
What is the training program required to qualify as a remedial gymnast in each State and Territory. 
6 ) What is the salary structure in each State and Territory for a remedial gymnast. 
How many people are training at each institute in which courses are available. 
What is the estimated requirement for remedial gymnasts in each State and Territory in 1 980. 
Under current trends what will be the actual supply of remedial gymnasts in 1980. 
If there is an estimated shortfall in the supply of remedial gymnasts in 1 980, what action is proposed to overcome it. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) How many specialists in work assessment or rehabilitation are there in each State and Territory. 
Where are they employed and, in particular, how many work in (a) general hospitals, (b) rehabilitation hospitals and (c) private hospitals. 
What training courses are available for specialists in work assessment or rehabilitation. 
Where are the courses given. 
What is the training program required to qualify as a specialist in work assessment or rehabilitation in each State and Territory. 
What is the salary structure in each State and Territory for a specialist in work assessment or rehabilitation. 
How many people are training at each institute in which courses are available. 
What is the estimated requirement for specialists in work assessment or rehabilitation in each State and Territory in 1980. 
Under current trends what will be the actual supply of specialists in work assessment or rehabilitation in 1 980. 
If there is an estimated shortfall in the supply of specialists in work assessment or rehabilitation in 1 980, what action is proposed to overcome it. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
How many non-medically qualified haematologists are there in each State and Territory. 
Where are they employed and, in particular, how many work in (a) general hospitals, (b) rehabilitation hospitals and (c) private hospitals. 
What training courses are available for non-medically qualified haematologists 
Where are the courses given. 
What is the training program required to qualify as a non-medically qualified haematologist in each State and Territory. 
What is the salary structure in each State and Territory for a non-medically qualified haematologist. 
How many people are training at each institute in which courses are available. 
What is the estimated requirement for non-medically qualified haematologists in each State and Territory in 1 980. 
Under current trends what will be the actual supply of non-medically qualified haematologists in 1 980.  
10) If there is an estimated shortfall in the supply of nonmedically qualified haematologists in 1980, what action is proposed to overcome it. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) How many psychologists are there in each State and Territory. 
Where are they employed and, in particular, how many work in (a) general hospitals, (b) rehabilitation hospitals and (c) private hospitals. 
) What training courses are available for psychologists. 
Where are the courses given. 
What is the training program required to qualify as a psychologist in each State and Territory. 
What is the salary structure in each State and Territory for a psychologist. 
How many people are training at each institute in which courses are available. 
) What is the estimated requirement for psychologists in each State or Territory in 1 980. 
Under current trends what will be the actual supply of psychologists in 1980. 
10) If there is an estimated shortfall in the supply of psychologists in 1980, what action is proposed to overcome it. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
How many biochemists are there in each State and Territory. 
) Where are they employed and, in particular how many work in (a) general hospitals, (b) rehabilitation hospitals and (c) private hospitals. 
) What training courses are available for biochemists. 
Where are the courses given. 
What is the training program required to qualify as a biochemist in each State and Territory. 
What is the salary structure in each State and Territory for a biochemist. 
How many people are training at each institute in which courses are available. 
What is the estimated requirement for biochemists in each State and Territory in 1980. 
Under current trends what will be the actual supply of biochemists in 1980. 
If there is an estimated shortfall in the supply of biochemists in 1 980, what action is proposed to overcome it. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) How many dentists are there in each State and Territory. 
Where are they employed and, in particular, how many work in (a) general hospitals, (b) rehabilitation hospitals and (c) private hospitals. 
) What training courses are available for dentists. 
Where are the courses given. 
What is the training program required to qualify as a dentist in each State and Territory. 
What is the salary structure in each State and Territory for a dentist. 
How many people are training at each institute in which courses are available. 
What is the estimated requirement for dentists in each State and Territory in 1980. 
Under current trends what will be the actual supply of dentists in 1980. 
10) If there is an estimated shortfall in the supply of dentists in 1 980, what action is proposed to overcome it. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) How many dental nurses are there in each State and Territory. 
Where are they employed and, in particular, how many work in (a) general hospitals, (b) rehabilitation hospitals and (c) private hospitals. 
What training courses are available for dental nurses. 
Where are the courses given. 
What is the training program required to qualify as a dental nurse in each State and Territory. 
What is the salary structure in each State and Territory for a dental nurse. 
How many people are training at each institute in which courses are available. 
What is the estimated requirement for dental nurses in each State and Territory in 1 980. 
Under current trends what will be the actual supply of dental nurses in 1980. 
10) If there is an estimated shortfall in the supply of dental nurses in 1 980, what action is proposed to overcome it. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) How many dental technicians are there in each State and Territory. 
Where are they employed and, in particular, how many work in (a) general hospitals, (b) rehabilitation hospitals and (c) private hospitals. 
What training courses are available for dental technicians. 
Where are the courses given. 
What is the training program required to qualify as a dental technician in each State and Territory. 
6 ) What is the salary structure in each State and Territory for a dental technician. 
How many people are training at each institute in which courses are available. 
What is the estimated requirement for dental technicians in each State and Territory in 1 980. 
Under current trends what will be the actual supply of dental technicians in 1980. 
1 0 ) If there is an estimated shortfall in the supply of dental technicians in 1980, what action is proposed to overcome it. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) How many orthodontists are there in each State and Territory. 
Where are they employed and, in particular, how many work in (a) general hospitals, (b) rehabilitation hospitals and (c) private hospitals. 
What training courses are available for orthodontists. 
Where are the courses given. 
What is the training program required to qualify as an orthodontist in each State and Territory. 
What is the salary structure in each State and Territory for an orthodontist. 
How many people are training at each institute in which courses are available. 
8 ) What is the estimated requirement for orthodontists in each State and Territory in 1 980. 
Under current trends what will be the actual supply of orthodontists in 1980. 
10) If there is an estimated shortfall in the supply of orthodontists in 1980, what action is proposed to overcome it. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) How many endo dontists are there in each State and Territory. 
Were are they employed and, in particular, how many work in (a) general hospitals, (b) rehabitilation hospitals, and (c) private hospitals. 
What training courses are available for endo dontists 
Where are the courses given. 
What is the training program required to qualify as an endo dontist in each State and Territory. 
What is the salary structure in each State and Territory for an endo dontist 
How many people are training at each institute in which courses are available. 
What is the estimated requirement for endo dontist in each State and Territory in 1 980. 
Under current trends what will be the actual supply of endo dontists in 1980. 
10) If there is an estimated shortfall in the supply of endo dontists in 1980, what action is proposed to overcome it. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) How many mothercraft nurses are there in each State and Territory. 
Where are they employed and, in particular, how many work in (a) general hospitals, (b) rehabilitation hospitals and (c) private hospitals. 
What training courses are available for mothercraft nurses. 
Where are the courses given. 
What is the training program required to qualify as a mothercraft nurse in each State and Terrirory 
What is the salary structure in each State and Territory for mothercraft nurse. 
How many people are training at each institute in which courses are available. 
What is the estimated requirement for mothercraft nurses in each State and Territory in 1980. 
Under current trends what will be the actual supply of mothercraft nurses in 1980. 
If there is an estimated shortfall in the supply of mothercraft nurses in 1980, what action is proposed to overcome it. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) How many respiratory technicians are there in each State and Territory. 
Where are they employed and, in particular, how many work in (a) general hospitals, (b) rehabilitation hospitals and (c) private hospitals. 
What training courses are available for respiratory technicians. 
Where are the courses given. 
What is the training program required to qualify as a respiratory technician in each State and Territory. 
What is the salary structure in each State and Territory for a respiratory technican 
How many people are training at each institute in which courses are available. 
What is the estimated requirement for respiratory technicians in each State and Territory in 1 980. 
Under current trends what will be the actual supply of respiratory technicians in 1980. 
If there is an estimated shortfall in the supply of respiratory technicians in 1980, what action is proposed to overcome it. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) How many non-medically qualified graduates trained in respiratory medicine are there in each State and Territory. 
Where are they employed and, in particular, how many work in (a) general hospitals, (b) rehabilitation hospitals and (c) private hospitals. 
What training courses are available for non-medically qualified graduates trained in respiratory medicine. 
Where are the courses given. 
What is the training program required to qualify as a non-medically qualified graduate trained in respiratory medicine in each State and Territory. 
What is the salary structure in each State and Territory for a non-medically qualified graduate trained in respiratory medicine. 
How many people are training at each institute in which courses are available. 
What is the estimated requirement for non-medically qualified graduates trained in respiratory medicine in each tate and Territory in 1 980. 
Under current trends what will be the actual supply of non-medically qualified graduates trained in respiratory medicine in 1980. 
10) If there is an estimated shortfall in the supply of nonmedically qualified graduates trained in respiratory medicine in 1 980, what action is proposed to overcome it. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) How are copies of Ministerial press releases circulated. 
To whom are they circulated. 
How many copies are circulated in total. 
What is the total annual cost, including salary and administration charges, in producing and distributing Ministerial press releases. 
How many public servants in his Department are involved with the distribution of press releases. 
asked the Prime Minister upon notice: 
1 ) Were literary grants from the Australian Council for the Arts initially intended for announcement in July. 
If so, what are the reasons- for the delay that occurred in the announcement of the grants. 
When is it expected that those writers selected to receive grants will receive the money due to them. 
Is it intended that literary grants should be received so late in the year. 
If not, what steps does he intend to take to ensure that the grants will be available earlier in future. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Which reports of interdepartmental committees have been made public by the Government since 2 December 1972. 
) How and when were they made public. 
How does the Government decide whether interdepartmental committee reports will be made public 
How many interdepartmental reports have been prepared since 2 December 1972. 
What percentage of them have been made public. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) What would be the estimated cost to the Commonwealth in 1 973-74 of extending the $ 1 ,200 deduction for life insurance premiums and superannuation payments to all taxpayers, regardless of their expenditure on these items. 
What would be the required across-the-board increase in personal income tax rates to offset the cost of extending the $ 1 ,200 deduction to all taxpayers. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
What consideration has the Government given as promised to the establishment of machinery to maintain an integrated and co-ordinated approach to matters affecting migrants. 
What type of machinery is envisaged. 
When will it come into effect. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the name of each publication prepared by his Department for distribution to the public 
How often is the publication printed. 
Which offices of his Department are responsible for the preparation of each publication. 
What is the purpose of each publication. 
5 ) What is the cost of each edition of the publication. 
How many copies of each edition of the publication are produced. 
7 ) How many people receive the publication. 
Is it distributed free of charge. 
If so, to whom and how is it distributed to them. 
If not, what is the selling cost of the publication and what are the retail outlets. 
When was the publication first produced. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) How many physiotherapists are there in each State and Territory. 
Where are they employed and, in particular, how many work in (a) general hospitals, (b) rehabilitation hospitals and (c) private hospitals. 
What training courses are available for physiotherapists. 
Where are the courses given. 
What is the training program required to qualify as a physiotherapist in each State and Territory. 
What is the salary structure in each State and Territory for a physiotherapist. 
How many people are training at each institute in which courses are available. 
What is the estimated requirement for physiotherapists in each State and Territory in 1 980. 
Under current trends what will be the actual supply of physiotherapists in 1980. 
If there is an estimated shortfall in the supply of physiotherapists in 1980, what action is proposed to overcome it. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) How many orthoptists are there in each State and Territory. 
Where are they employed and, in particular, how many work in (a) general hospitals, (b) rehabilitation hospitals and (c) private hospitals. 
) What training courses are available for orthoptists. 
Where are the courses given. 
What is the training program required to qualify as an orthoptist in each State and Territory. 
What is the salary structure in each State and Territory for an orthoptist. 
How many people are training at each institute in which courses are available. 
What is the estimated requirement for orthoptists in each State and Territory in 1 980. 
Under current trends what will be the actual supply of orthoptists in 1980. 
If there is an estimated shortfall in the supply of orthoptists in 1 980, what action is proposed to overcome it. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) How many optometrists are there is each State and Territory. 
Where are they employed and, in particular, how many work in (a) general hospitals, (b) rehabilitation hospitals and (c) private hospitals. 
What training courses are available for optometrists. 
Where are the courses given. 
What is the training program required to qualify as an optometrist in each State and Territory. 
What is the salary structure in each State and Territory for an optometrist. 
How many people are training at each institute in which courses are available. 
What is the estimated requirement for optometrists in each State and Territory in 1980. 
Under current trends what will be the actual supply of optometrists in 1 980. 
10) If there is an estimated shortfall in the supply of optometrists in 1 980, what action is proposed to overcome it. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) How many audiologists are there in each State and Territory. 
Where are they employed and, in particular, how many work in (a) general hospitals, (b) rehabilitation hospitals and (c) private hospitals. 
What training courses are available for audiologists 
Where are the courses given. 
What is the training program required to qualify as an audiologist in each State and Territory. 
What is the salary structure in each State and Territory for an audiologist 
How many people are training at each institute in which courses are available. 
What is the estimated requirement for audiologists in each State and Territory in 1980. 
Under current trends what will be the actual supply of audiologists in 1980. 
10) If there is an estimated shortfall in the supply of audiologists in 1980, what action is proposed to overcome it. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
How many occupational therapists are there in each State and Territory. 
Where are they employed and, in particular, how many work in (a) general hospitals, (b) rehabilitation hospitals and (c) private hospitals. 
What training courses are available for occupational therapists. 
Where are the courses given. 
What is the training program required to qualify as an occupational therapist in each State and Territory. 
What is the salary structure in each State and Territory for an occupational therapist. 
How many people are training at each institute in which courses are available. 
What is the estimated requirement for occupational therapists in each State and Territory in 1 980. 
Under current trends what will be the actual supply of occupational therapists in 1 980. 
If there is an estimated shortfall in the supply of occupational therapists in 1980, what action is proposed to overcome it. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) How many speech therapists are there in each State and Territory. 
Where are they employed and, in particular, how many work in (a) general hospitals, (b) rehabilitation hospitals and (c) private hospitals. 
What training courses are available for speech therapists. 
Where are the courses given. 
What is the training program required to qualify as a speech therapist in each State and Territory. 
What is the salary structure in each State and Territory for a speech therapist. 
How many people are training at each institute in which courses are available. 
What is the estimated requirement for speech therapists in each State and Territory in 1 980. 
Under current trends what will be the actual supply of speech therapists in 1980. 
If there is an estimated shortfall in the supply of speech therapists in 1 980, what action is intended to overcome it. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Have there been significant borrowings from overseas in the June quarter reflecting draw-downs under arrangements approved prior to the imposition of the variable deposit requirement. 
Does this indicate that some companies are in a better position than others to avoid the variable deposit requirement. 
Are there any overseas-owned companies able to use the arrangements referred to in part ( 1 ). 
Are Australian companies without overseas connections at a disadvantage in bringing in loan funds which are not subject to the variable deposit requirement. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
How many applications have been received by the Crafts Board of the Australian Council for the Arts from individual craftsmen for official assistance in the form of study grants or training grants. 
What sum has been sought in each case, and what are the names of the individuals who have made applications. 
When will the successful applicants be announced. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
1 ) Will he provide a list of all formal committees, councils etc., that have been established which enable him or officers of his Department to maintain contact with State Government Ministers or State Government officers. 
When was each body established and by whom. 
What is the (a) composition and (b) function of each body. 
On what occasions has each body met in the last 2 years and for what purpose. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Will he provide a list of all formal committees, councils, etc., that have been established which enable him or officers of his Department to maintain contact with State Government Ministers or State Government officers. 
When was each body established and by whom. 
What is the (a) composition and (b) function of each body. 
On what occasions has each body met in the last 2 years and for what purpose. 
asked the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice: 
1 ) Has he given consideration to the establishment of Commonwealth Hostels at Albury/Wodonga, and other proposed growth centres, to provide low cost accommodation for newly arrived public servants who will be transferred in their employment from capital cities to such growth centres. 
If so, what was the result of that consideration. 
asked the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice: 
1 ) On what dates have he and the Treasurer had discussions with lending institutions to plan the introduction of the promised deferred payment housing loan plan. 
When will the plan begin to operate. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Which departments or authorities have responsibility for consumer protection. 
What are these responsibilities. 
Which sections of which departments or authorities are involved. 
How many officers in each department or authority arc involved. 
) What is the total number of officers or employees in all Government departments or authorities concerned with consumer protection activities. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) How many persons have been appointed to the Public Service Board on a contract basis in each of the last 3 years. 
Who are they. 
3 ) What was their previous employment. 
What are the terms and conditions of their employment. 
Has the Public Service Board issued instructions to other departments advising of the methods to be adopted in employing people on contract. 
Do departments keep statistics of the numbers employed on the contract basis. 
If so, what are the details. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) With reference to the answer to question No. 6 ( Hansard, 17 October 1974, page 2582) relating to the number of men and women who have sat as union representatives on promotion appeal panels, when was the survey of the A.C.T. promotions appeal committee conducted. 
Who conducted the survey. 
Have the appropriate unions been informed of the results of the survey. 
If so, what were their reactions to the results. 
If not, will he inform the appropriate unions of the results of the survey. 
Will he make available to me copies of the results  of  this survey and other surveys which are being conducted. 
Is it considered that the question of union representatives sitting on selection panels or tribunals established under the Public Service Act is worthy of examination. 
If so, will he authorise such an examination. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) With reference to the answer to Question No. 203 (Hansard, 31 October 1974, page 3259) concerning the Government's promise to inform any person refused employment in the Public Service of the reasons for rejection, will he discuss with the  Chairman  of the Public Service Board the need to maintain records of persons refused employment or to adopt some system whereby it can be verified that each person, whose application for employment with the Public Service is not successful, is given a reason for his or her rejection. 
) How are persons advised when they have been judged not eligible for appointment on citizenship or medical grounds or as a result of criminal convictions bearing directly on the duties of the vacancy. 
What steps has he taken since 2 December 1972 to give effect to the promise of the present Minister for Labor and Immigration referred to in Question No. 203. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
1 ) How many publications have been printed in the most widely used languages to provide information to help migrants in the work force. 
What is the title of each publication. 
) How many copies of each issue were printed. 
How many copies were distributed. 
5 ) Ho w are they distributed. 
) What was the cost of each, 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) How many Australian school children are now receiving free dental services as a result of Federal Government funds. 
What grants have been provided to State Governments to enable them to build and staff colleges to train dental therapists. 
How many dental therapists are currently in training as the direct consequence of funds that have been provided by the Federal Government. 
How many dental therapists are in training in Australia at the present time. 
How many dental therapists will be required by 1977 so that all Australian school children will be provided, as promised, with free dental services. 
On current trends what will be the likely number of dental therapists in Australia in 1977. 
Will all Australian school children be receiving free dental services by 1977. 
What will be the exact nature of the services provided. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Minister sighted a copy of the report on racial discrimination prepared by social work students at Sydney University and submitted to the Attorney-General which alleges that 1 7 out of 25 estate agents surveyed between March and May 1 974 would not rent homes to Aborigines. 
If so, what action has he taken or does he intend to take on the findings in the report 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
When will new elections be held for the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the Three Year Development Plan which is being worked out by the Australian Government? 
Will the Minister provide a reference source in which this plan is explained? 
If not, will he explain it in answer to this question? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) How are copies of Ministerial press releases circulated. 
) To whom are they circulated. 
3 ) How many copies are circulated in total. 
What is the total annual cost, including salary and administration charges, in producing and distributing Ministerial press releases. 
) How many public servants in the Department of Aboriginal Affairs are involved with the distribution of press releases. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the name of each publication prepared by his Department for distribution to the public. 
) How often is the publication printed. 
Which offices of his Department are responsible for the preparation of each publication. 
What is the purpose of each publication. 
5 ) What is the cost of each edition of the publication. 
How many copies of each edition of the publication are produced. 
How many people receive the publication. 
Is it distributed free of charge. 
9) If so, to whom and how is it distributed to them. 
10) If not, what is the selling cost of the publication and what are the retail outlets. 
When was the publication first produced. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the name of each publication prepared by the Department of Foreign Affairs for distribution to the public. 
) How often is the publication printed. 
Which offices of the Department are responsible for the preparation of each publication. 
What is the purpose of each publication. 
5 ) What is the cost of each edition of the publication. 
How many copies of each edition of the publication are produced. 
How many people receive the publication. 
Is it distributed free of charge. 
If so, to whom and how is it distributed to them. 
If not, what is the selling cost of the publication and what are the retail outlets. 
When was the publication first produced. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the name of each publication prepared by his Department for distribution to the public. 
) How often is the publication printed. 
Which offices of his Department are responsible for the preparation of each publication. 
What is the purpose of each publication. 
What is the cost of each edition of the publication. 
How many copies of each edition of the publication are produced. 
How many people receive the publication. 
8 ) Is it distributed free of charge. 
9 ) If so, to whom and how is it distributed to them. 
10) If not, what is the selling cost of the publication and what are the retail outlets. 
When was the publication first produced. 
asked the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the name of each publication prepared by his Department for distribution to the public. 
How often is the publication printed. 
Which offices of his Department are responsible for the preparation of each publication. 
What is the purpose of each publication. 
5 ) What is the cost of each edition of the publication. 
How many copies of each edition of the publication are produced. 
How many people receive the publication. 
8 ) Is it distributed free of charge. 
If so, to whom and how is it distributed to them. 
10) If not, what is the selling cost of the publication and what are the retail outlets. 
When was the publication first produced. 
asked the Minister for the Environment and Conservation, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the name of each publication prepared by his Department for distribution to the public. 
) How often is the publication printed. 
Which offices of his Department are responsible for the preparation of each publication. 
What is the purpose of each publication. 
5 ) What is the cost of each edition of the publication. 
How many copies of each edition of the publication are produced. 
How many people receive the publication. 
Is it distributed free of charge. 
If so, to whom and how is it distributed to them. 
10) If not, what is the selling cost of the publication and what are the retail outlets. 
When was the publication first produced. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the name of each publication prepared by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs for distribution to the public. 
How often is the publication printed. 
Which offices of the Department are responsible for the preparation of each publication. 
What is the purpose of each publication. 
What is the cost of each edition of the publication. 
How many copies of each edition of the publication are produced. 
7 ) How many people receive the publication. 
Is it distributed free of charge. 
If so, to whom and how is it distributed to them. 
10 ) If not, what is the selling cost of the publication and what are the retail outlets. 
When was the publication first produced. 
asked the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice: 
1 ) How are copies of Ministerial press releases circulated. 
2 ) To whom are they circulated. 
3 ) How many copies are circulated in total. 
What is the total annual cost, including salary and administration charges, in producing and distributing Ministerial press releases. 
How many public servants in his Department arc involved with the distribution of press releases. 
asked the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice: 
With reference to the answer to question No. 548 (Hansard, 19 September 1974, page 1621) in which the Prime Minister indicated that the form and frequency of exercises in Government Departments in civil defence preparedness are as determined by individual Departments, on what dates in the last 18 months have exercises of this nature been conducted in his Department. 
) Which officers and employees took part. 
3 ) How many officers and employees took part. 
What was the purpose of each of the exercises. 
Does he accept that this is an area where the Australian Government can give a lead to other employers. 
asked the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice: 
1 ) Will he provide a list of all grants, to any organisation or individual, that are provided from moneys appropriated to his Department, or authorities under his control, to undertake research. 
To what bodies have such moneys been advanced, and what was or is the nature of the research being undertaken us a result of the grants in each of the last 3 years. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Will he provide a list of all grants, to any organisation or individual, that are provided from moneys appropriated to his Department, or authorities under his control, to undertake research. 
To what bodies have such moneys been advanced, and what was or is the nature of the research being undertaken as a result of the grants in each of the last 3 years. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) What was the total approved establishment provided to Ministers on 1 November 1972. 
) What was the annual salary bill for this establishment. 
What is the total approved establishment provided to Ministers in the present Government. 
What is the annual salary bill for this establishment. 
What is the percentage increase in approved establishments. 
What is the percentage increase in the annual salary bill of approved establishments. 
asked the Prime Minister upon notice: 
1 ) What was the staff and establishment of the Prime Minister on 1 December 1972. 
What was the annual salary bill for the approved establishment strength. 
What is the current staff and establishment of the Prime Minister. 
What is the annual salary bill for this approved establishment strength. 
) What is the percentage increase in both staff provided and salary expended between the two dates. 
What is the comparative percentage increase for the staffing and salary bill for the position of Leader of the Opposition. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What programs does his Department or statutory authorities under his control administer which enable individual groups or people in the community to apply for grants from the Australian Government for a specific purpose. 
What is the name of each program. 
What is the purpose of each program. 
What are the conditions surrounding eligibility for a grant under each program. 
) When did each program commence. 
What is the legal authority for the existence of each program. 
How is the community informed of the existence of each program, and its entitlement to apply for a grant. 
How many applications for grants under each program have been received in each of the last 3 years or for the period of operation of the program if it has been in operation less than 3 years. 
Who decides which applications for grants should be accepted. 
10) What percentage of applications for grants under each program have been successful in each of the last 3 years or in each of the years in which the program has been operating if it has been in operation for less than 3 years. 
What proportion of total funds allocated under each program in each of the last 3 years, or in each year the program has been operating where it has been in operation for less than 3 years, have been allocated to individuals as against groups. 
Are any attempts made to assess the extent to which the widest cross-section of the community is aware of the existence of the program and the means by which applications can be submitted; if so, what attempts. 
What checks are made once applications are received for each program to determine if the attempts to widen access to the funds having been successful. 
Is he confident that the widest cross-section of the community is aware of the existence of the programs, and is aware of the application process. 
What procedures exist to assess the use to which the grants are being put, and to attempt some accountability for the money granted. 
What is the total amount that has been paid out under each program in each of the last 3 years or in each year of the operation of the program if it has been operating for less than 3 years. 
What is the total amount of money paid out for all such programs administered by his Department or authorities under his control. 
What attempts are made to ensure that the same individual organisations or persons do not receive several grants under different programs which he or other Ministers are responsible for and which, when added together, may be unwarranted. 
asked the Minister for Science, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the name of each publication prepared by his Department for distribution to the public. 
How often is the publication printed. 
Which offices of his Department are responsible for the preparation of each publication. 
What is the purpose of each publication. 
5 ) What is the cost of each edition of the publication. 
How many copies of each edition of the publication are produced. 
7 ) How many people receive the publication. 
8 ) Is it distributed free of charge. 
If so, to whom and how is it distributed to them. 
10) If not, what is the selling cost of the publication and what are the retail outlets 
When was the publication first produced. 
asked the Minister for Science, upon notice: 
1 ) How are copies of Ministerial press releases circulated. 
To whom are they circulated. 
How many copies are circulated in total. 
What is the total annual cost, including salary and administration charges, in producing and distributing Ministerial press releases. 
How many public servants in his Department are involved with the distribution of press releases. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What percentage of works of art owned by the Government which are intended to be exhibited in the National Art Gallery has been publicly displayed in Australia since they have been acquired by the Government. 
asked the Minister for Manufacturing Industry, upon notice: 
1 ) How many fighter aircraft have been (a) built or ( h) commissioned for construction in Australia since 2 December 1972. 
Where have they been built or where are they being constructed, and for what purpose. 
What are the comparative figures and details for the corresponding preceding period. 
asked the Minister for Manufacturing Industry, upon notice: 
How many light aircraft have been (a) built or (b) commissioned for construction in Australia since 2 December 1972. 
Where have they been built and for what purpose, and where are they operating at the present time. 
In respect of those under construction or commissioned for construction, where are they being built and for what purpose, and where will they operate. 
What were the comparative figures for the corresponding preceding period. 
asked the Minister for Manufacturing Industry, upon notice: 
1 ) With reference to the answer to question No. 36 ( Hansard, 17 October 1 974 page 2 584) on the number of staff rostered for duty in each State to receive passenger car bookings, do the figures presented indicate that the ratio of staffat peak period to daily average bookings is highest in Victoria. 
If so, does this indicate that additional booking start' are required in Melbourne. 
) How many staff have been receiving car bookings each weekend in each capital city in the last 6 months. 
What has been the daily average bookings for the weekend period in each capital city in the last 6 months. 
On how many occasions has only one officer been rostered for duty in each capital city to receive passenger car bookings in the last 6 months. 
asked the Minister for Manufacturing Industry, upon notice: 
1 ) On what dates has the joint committee on government factories' work load met. 
) Who has attended each meeting of the committee. 
On what dates has it presented reports to him on possibilities for increasing the workloads of the factories. 
Did he indicate on 16 July 1974 that the committee would present its final report to the Government within 3 months, namely by 16 October 1974. 
If so did the committee present its final report on 16 October 1974. 
If so, when will he table the report. 
If not, what was the reason for the delay and when is it expected that the final report will be presented to the Government. 
Will the report be made public. 
asked the Minister for Science, upon notice: 
How many consumer advice booklets have been published to date, and on what subjects. 
) What was the cost of each publication. 
What was the cost of purchase by the public of each publication. 
Does the Government make a profit on the sale of these publications. 
5 ) How many copies have been 
distributed free of cost; and 
b ) purchased by the public. 
asked the Minister for Science, upon notice: 
What have been the commercial applications and consequences of research performed by (a) the Environmental Physics Research Laboratories, (b) the Minerals Research Laboratories, and (c) the National Standards Laboratory since their inception. 
asked the Minister for Science, upon notice: 
1 ) Will he provide a list of all grants, to any organisation or individual, that are provided from moneys appropriated to his Department, or authorities under his control, to undertake research. 
) To what bodies have such moneys been advanced, and what was or is the nature of the research being undertaken as a result of the grants in each of the last 3 years. 
I ask the Prime Minister: Did he announce that in future there ought to be a general presumption against further increases of government spending? By how much will government spending be limited by his Government? What specific areas will be cut back? Government spending increased by 43 per cent during the period from July to December 1974 compared with the 32.5 per cent increase which  was provided for in the Budget. When will the Government introduce legislation for supplementary appropriations? 
Under the rules of this Parliament, when a matter of public importance is raised, as I have done this morning, it requires the support of 8 members who are required to stand in their places. All members of the Liberal and Country parties on the Opposition side stood in their places because they want to discuss this tragic situation which has befallen Australia. Not a single member on the Government side was prepared to stand and give his support to ihe discussion of the issue of unemployment. Government members are a lazy, lethargic mob of people who just do not care about the social implications of their actions and what they have done to the people of Australia. Some Government members are not sitting in the House. Where is the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Mathews),  with the level of unemployment in Ringwood and Croydon? He is not here. The honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr McKenzie)  has not even bothered to turn up. The honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Clayton)  is not here. 
-The honourable member for Diamond Valley is not here; there is unemployment in his area. Where is the honourable member for Isaacs? He is not sitting in the chamber. Where is the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Lamb)?  He is probably dispensing something for the headaches of the people who are unemployed. Where is that person who is so socially involved with the ills of people who are unemployed, the honourable member for Henty  (Mrs Child)?  Where is she? Where is the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns)?  Where is the cocktail Cabinet? The kitchen Cabinet is not here. The people who take the economic decisions are not even bothering to be here. As for the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  who is in the House, he is the new runner for the Prime Minister. He has taken over from the honourable member for Casey. Apparently Port Adelaide is a safer seat than that of Casey and the Prime Minister has abandoned the honourable member for Casey as his runner. The honourable member for Port Adelaide is here. He will report back. He will carry the tales. He was out on the first ballot for the Cabinet position. 
Unemployment in Australia today is running at a level of 31 1,596 people. But the Australian Labor Party can muster only a dozen members to come into the House in response to a debate on the matter. This is the second successive month in which the unemployment rate has exceeded 250,000 people. The number of unemployed persons at present is twice the population of Canberra. That gives some idea ofthe dimension of the problem. That figure is made up of adult persons, people who are concerned to find a job but cannot do so. I ask honourable members to think of the problems this will lead to for such people in future years, to think of the set backs to their careers. The first connection with work that a school leaver has is that he or she cannot find a job. People make their commitments to buy a house, a motor car, a refrigeratorwhatever is might be- and are thrown out of work and cannot keep up the payments. The social impact is immense. 
There are in the House people who remember the Depression and the impact it had on people who could not obtain work. They could not find a job. Such honourable members will remember the indignity of standing in a dole queue and the indignity of getting up every morning, going to an employer and saying: 'I want the job ', and the employer saying: 'There were 30 people here at 4 o'clock this morning looking for the job'. They will remember the indignity this causes to a man and the way it crushes his soul. That is what this Government has created? This is the Government which said that it was elected to office by the working people of Australia to make right the situation of the working man. What has this Government done? The honourable member for Port Adelaide can sit there on the front bench and grin about the position. The runner for the Prime Minister can sit there and he can grin about it. But there are honourable members on the other side of the House who know what it is all about. The Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  knows. I quote the Minister as he was reported: 
I have been out of work myself and I know the anguish that comes to a person who suddenly finds he cannot get work. 
He has been through it and he knows. Certainly, it had an impact on him. He was asked about it in August last year when he was saying that the Labor Party was great, that it could do anything, etc. He was asked about unemployment. This is the question- it is reported quite accurately: 
You were recorded as saying that you would sooner resign than preside over unemployment of 250 000. Acknowledging that you say what you mean, just how serious were you? 

 Mr Cameron said: 
Quite serious about it and I think that most of the Government would feel the same way. 
He said that most ofthe Government would feel that way. There are 3 Ministers in the House now. There is a Minister failed, the honourable member for Bass  (Mr Barnard),  the Minister for Defence who was formerly the  Deputy  Prime 
Minister. The Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  did not stand by with even a finger snap to protect him when he was under pressure. He is there. The Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  is here because he is plotting some new way in order to sit less time and to have less debates. The Minister for Labor and Immigration, who said that he would resign if the unemployment rate exceeded 250 000 people is here. For 2 months, December and January, it has exceeded that level. Where is the honour of the man? It is perfectly simple to write out a letter addressed to the Prime Minister in accordance with the undertaking he gave: 'I will resign'. But that has not happened. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has, on a number of occasions, said words to this effect: 'I give you, the Australian people, an unqualified commitment that the Labor Party is committed to full employment.' Honourable members will remember those advertisements stating: 'Only Whitlam can achieve full employment'. They appeared less than a year ago, placed in the knowledge that the decisions the Prime Minister was taking were wrong and would lead to recession, price rises, unemployment and soul destroying indignity to people and to families. But he said that in May to cling to office. He is a man without honour. 
When the time comes that in this Parliament we cannot state the facts truthfully and stand up for them, parliamentary democracy will be gone. A man who says, 'I give you a commitment to full employment', and in less than a year has 300 000 unemployed, 5 per cent of the work force, I say is a man without honour. 

 -Mr Speaker, are you entering this debate? 

 -Mr Speaker, your role is to preside over this House; not to debate. 
Immediately after I made the request the right honourable gentleman repeated the remark. 
-The fact is that the Australian Labor Party has pursued policies which have produced unemployment in Australia. Last week members of the Party gathered at Terrigal and declared their passionate belief in private enterprise. Private enterprise has failed to respond with a vote of passionate belief that the Labor Party means what it says. These late recantations will do no good for the people who are out of work. The people who are out of work will have to face that situation continually. Labor will be remembered in the future as the party that created unemployment and did nothing to reduce it. It is all very fine to use words like 'tired radicals '. A few tired ones are sitting here. A year ago they were great socialists, great reformers and campaigners. Today they are like a lot of fox terriers. They yap and yap to draw attention and to divert attention but they do not adopt any policies. 
The honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson)  is a man whom I have always understood to be socially committed to the cause of people and equality, but he is sitting in attendance reading. What has happened to the people of Perth who are unemployed? How can he sit there and be unconcerned about it? The policies that have produced the unemployment are perfectly clear. They are the pacesetter principles advocated by the Minister for Labor and Immigration. It is surprising the Minister is still here. If he were a man of honour he would have resigned in accordance with his promise. It was he who used the pacesetter principle and lifted wages. The Prime Minister said for a long while that wages had nothing to do with inflation. Then, in his somersault- it is a wonder he was not signed up for the Moscow Circus when he was overseas- he said that wages were at the heart of it. We have known that for a long while. The Government pushed up wages. It wanted to transfer the private sector resources into the public sector. The fact is that we cannot grow and give employment by putting everyone on the public payroll. 
The place where jobs have been lost is the private sector. Confidence has gone down, profits have been driven away, productivity has been abandoned and there has been no incentive whatever. The number of jobs lost are there for all to see. We need positive programs to stimulate the private sector and to get investment in plant and equipment. Some members on the Government side of the House are skilled tradesmen. If some of them have to go back to the lathe or the bench after the next election they will find that they will be working with inadequate equipment because there has been no investment in new plant or equipment. We will lose technological advance in Australia. We will become inefficient and lose productivity. There has been the social impact of injury to the dignity of men, women and children. Now the efficiency of manufacturing and commercial industries will be ruined. 
Quite clearly we need an understanding in Australia that people want to work and they should have the right to work. The place where they can find a job is in the private sector if the right action is taken. People need to have restored to them the initiative to work if they want to work and to profit from the work if they want to. Private companies have to have the initiative to invest, to improve their efficiency and to profit from it. Only by doing these things will we have the opportunity to overcome unemployment. We want a position where even the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  could get a job. There is no comfort in saying that unemployment in Australia has been imported. Nobody will believe that. For 18 months the Prime Minister alleged that inflation was imported. Now he has abandoned that falsehood. It has been picked up by the Minister for Labor and Immigration who is saying that unemployment is imported. 
I move: 
That the words ' next sitting ' be omitted and the words ' 1 8 February ' be substituted. 
In speaking to my amendment I wish to emphasise at the outset that there is no intention whatever on the part of the Opposition to obstruct in any way consideration of this Bill. I do not wish to make a long address about the devastation of Darwin and the necessity for action to be taken to put the position right. There is nobody in the House who would not accept that proposition. This Bill has been introduced just now. The Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson)  was kind enough to give me a draft copy of it at lunch time yesterday. In the intervening period between lunch time yesterday and now there has not been the opportunity for myself or my colleagues in the Party fully to examine the Bill, as I am sure the honourable gentleman will understand. The Bill has been in the course of development as to principle and as to construction for approximately 6 weeks. For us to attempt to deal with it in 24 hours notice is just not practicable in any way. This is not a Bill in respect of which the Government has given notice in the past and has said: 'This is a fundamental principle for the Labor Party and therefore we are going to bring the Bill in and we are going to use our numbers to push it through'. I do not wish this Bill to be dealt with on that basis. 
As the Minister for the Northern Territory knows, I was in Darwin within 24 hours of the tragedy. I had the opportunity there to discuss the matter with him and with  Dr Cairns,  who I think at that time was not the Treasurer but was the Acting Prime Minister. I appreciated the opportunity of having a discussion on this matter. I made it clear at the dme that the Opposition would approach this matter on a totally nonpolitical basis. There is a big job to be done for the people of Darwin- not just for the people of Darwin but because all the Australian people expect us to do the job. There is an immense sympathy and understanding by all the people of Australia of the tragedy that the people of Darwin have suffered. It is against that background that I have moved this amendment. 
The manager of business for the Opposition, the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair),  discussed this matter with the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  and it was agreed that the Bill would not go on today but would be left until tomorrow. I appreciate the willingness to put it off for a day, but I am bound to say that to put it off for a day is totally inadequate. I do not wish to say anything in terrorem but I am sure it will be understood that if the Bill must come on for debate tomorrow we in the House will not be able to put the point of view which ought to be put in the House. The Bill must go to the Senate and the Senate will want time to fully examine it. Therefore, no time will be lost by accepting the proposition we put to delay resumption of the debate on this Bill until next Tuesday so that we can have full discussion of it. 
Without in any sense whatever criticising the second reading speech ofthe Minister for Northern Development and Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson)  I should point out that the second reading speech occupies 23 foolscap printed pages. It is not until the middle of page 19 that a description is given of the Bill. The section prior to that- I have no criticism of it- is an historical survey dealing with a number of issues. It is not until half way through page 19- and the second reading speech only goes to page 23- that the Minister says: 'I now turn to the particular provisions of the Bill'. It so happens that the Bill itself is of 19 pages. It is a coincidence that it is not until page 19 ofthe second reading speech that the Minister turns to the description of the Bill which has 1 9 pages. There are, in fact, 61 clauses ofthe Bill. 
For the purposes of my argument, I repeat the following part of the Minister's second reading speech: 
I now turn to the particular provisions of the Bill. Honourable members will realise that the Darwin Reconstruction Commission must be a forceful body which may need to vary some of the present and normal arrangements operating in the city of Darwin and its environs. 
To the people of Australia and to the Opposition the use of the words, 'a forceful body which may need to vary some of the present and normal arrangements operating in the city of Darwin and its environs' spells out the need to examine very closely the provisions of the Bill. The second reading speech continues: 
The Commission should clearly have power to do this in the performance of its functions. 
If the Commission does do this in the performance of its functions it is clear that it is going to override the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly and the Darwin City Corporation. The speech continues: 
Naturally, the normal processes of government will gradually be re-established as the city is re-built. This is the underlying purpose of the Bill. Clause 4 ofthe Bill limits the effective operation of the Commission to a duration of S years after the commencement ofthe Act . . . 
Once this Bill is passed it establishes the practice for the next 5 years. When what is proposed is a Commission which is described as 'a forceful body which may need to vary some of the present and normal arrangements operating in the city of Darwin and its environs' we need to look at the matter quite closely. I am quite sure nobody would quarrel with the right of an Opposition to do so as part of its proper role. I quote another part ofthe second reading speech: 
Let me say that it is not the Government's intention to acquire all the land in Darwin, as has been put forward in some quarters. Private construction on private land, with the approval of the Commission, will proceed hand in hand and complement the Government's reconstruction program. 
Naturally, the Opposition would want to know the criteria for approval being granted by the Commission for people to build a house on their own private land. Obviously, that goes to the very basis of the human freedom of the people in Darwin who are anxious to re-establish themselves in their normal way of life. I quote again from the Minister's second reading speech: 
Associated with this provision is clause 15 establishing the right of the Commission for the purposes of public safety or sanitation to enter and work on land subject to certain restrictions . . . 
To give any commission which is not subject to parliamentary scrutiny the right to enter on to land is quite a step to take and it needs to be examined closely to see what are the restrictions on that right of entry, under what circumstances it can operate, what notice is to be given, etc. Because the Opposition has just received the Bill it is impossible for it to understand fully what is proposed in that provision. 
I am sorry,  Mr Speaker,  I hoped to avoid that. I do not want to deal with the Bill because it will be dealt with in the debate. I have made the points, I hope, that there are major issues involved in this Bill. To expect honourable members to be able to debate it tomorrow is unreal. No time will be saved because, I am perfectly certain, the Senate will want to look at it just as closely as we do. I give an undertaking that whatever the outcome of our examination of the provisions of the Bill- and there may be some we want to oppose, I do not know- if we are given a week to examine the matter we will go ahead with the debate and let the matter be resolved in the debate. There will be no attempt on our part to delay the Bill further. I do put this to the Government- 
The logical processes of the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  are frustrated and he constantly jumps to conclusions which have no basis at all. How the Minister who is responsible for social service and health matters could be relied upon to bring in a health scheme when he comes up with an interjection like that is beyond my comprehension. I think,  Mr Speaker,  that the Minister for Social 
Security needs a little bit of attention himself judging from that interjection. 
The seat of the Legislative Assembly of the Northern Territory is in Darwin. The members of the Legislative Assembly were elected last year and they are very keen people. I have met them all, naturally enough, and they are very anxious to discharge their obligations to the people of the Northern Territory. They wish to have the Assembly sit for the purpose of examining the Bill so that they can see the way in which it affects them and their constituents in the Northern Territory. I have received a request from  Mr Grant  Tambling, Member for Fannie Bay in the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly.  His  telegram read: 
Request copies Darwin Reconstruction Bill be made available here immediately on introduction Australian Parliament and sufficient time be allowed for examination and comment. At public meeting business people last night 44 citizens requested me convey their concern that Reconstruction Bill may be processed Australian Parliament before opportunity given for scrutiny and comment. 
This request came directly from a member of the Assembly. The Leader of the Assembly,  Dr Goff  Letts, has asked the joint Opposition parties to have the matter adjourned for a week so that his Assembly can discuss it. I have received a telex message from  Mr Ian  Barker,  Chairman  of the Citizens Advisory Committee, Darwin. I think that is the same committee which was referred to by the Minister for Northern Development in his second reading speech.  Mr Ian  Barker, of course, is a leading citizen. If my recollection is correct, he is actually a Queen's Counsel.  His  telex message read as follows: 
Request delay of one week in passage of Darwin Reconstruction Bill in order that people of Darwin might have the opportunity to consider the Bill before it is passed. 
I believe,  Mr Speaker,  that I have presented a full and proper case for the debate of this Bill to be adjourned until next Tuesday. I would hope that the Government would see fit to accept that course and I give the undertaking that, if it does, the Opposition will go ahead with the debate. I confidently expect that, in fact, no time will be lost because the Bill will not become legislation until it has passed through the Senate. I am supported in this motion by the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder).  He is seconding my amendment. 
Today we had a 23-page statement by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  on his recent journey overseas. No journey has been so satirised in the history of Australian politics and no journey has been more deserving of being satirised than that journey. No journey ever made has been so empty of achievement. Today's statement by the Prime Minister was his second attempt to justify the journey. He went on national television and there attempted to justify it and he failed. Today in the House he attempted once again to justify it. One would have expected that instead of attempting to justify the trip, which he failed to do, he would make a statement on the foreign policy of the Australian Government. It so happens that the Government, which pretends that it is so concerned about foreign policy that the Prime Minister has to spend overseas 5 months of the 2 years of his period in office, has been responsible for only one foreign policy debate in this Parliament 
The Prime Minister attempted to justify his journey on the basis that only he could do it. We have had plenty of experience of the Prime Minister saying that only he could do it. Nobody will have forgotten the advertisements that only he could reduce unemployment, that only he could reduce inflation and that only he could reduce interest rates. Now we have been told that only he could have made this trip. What has been achieved? What is it that only he could do? What have been the tangible achievements? There have been no tangible achievements. Where are the contracts? The Prime Minister spoke a lot at odd places- not in this Parliament- about uranium. Apparently he talked about uranium in Europe. Why can the people of Australia not be told what the policy of the Government is in relation to uranium? He did not go to the point of saying that as Australia is a supplier of uranium and as Europe is short of uranium a growing influence will be exerted by Australia over European affairs. That was a thinly veiled return to the resources diplomacy which the Prime Minister announced in Mexico in 1 973, 1 think it was, and about which he was so badly panned that he abandoned it and never mentioned it again until this thinly veiled reference that Australians will have considerable influence in Europe because we have a resource that Europe is short of and needs. I say on behalf of the Opposition Parties that we totally reject the concept of a resources diplomacy being used in a way in which it has been used by some countries and in which apparently the Prime Minister suggests it should be used. 
Where are the contracts on uranium? Not a single one has been produced. What must be the attitude of Japan towards the statement by and activities of the Prime Minister in Europe in relation to uranium. Has a single contract been brought back on beef? Not a single one. What we have been told is that the Prime Minister talked quite sharply to the people of Europe about the problems of Australia in relation to beef. He said that he hoped that by the middle of 1976 400 000 to 500 000 tonnes of Australian beef will be admitted to Europe. The beef industry, which is on its knees now, will be ruined by then. Why can the Prime Minister not say to those countries: You must understand that a whole way of life for a whole section of the Australian community depends upon the sale of beef to your country. Pull down the barrier that prevents it from coming in'? Why could he not have come back and said that he had succeeded instead of giving us this oddity that he talked straight to them and that he hopes that by 1976 something will happen? 
Where are the policies that he mentioned on investment? The Prime Minister said that he went overseas and talked very frankly to the people over there about investment in Australia. I wish he would be as frank in Australia as he is outside Australia. The Prime Minister said in his address to the House that he had to go overseas because when a head of Government goes overseas the heads of government of the countries visited have to co-ordinate their policies so that the situation can be explained to him. If the Prime Minister has had the advantage of their explaining their co-ordinated policies, why has a statement not been made in this House as to what the policy of the Australian Labor Party in government is to overseas investment in Australia? Where is the policy on trade? No policy has been announced. No announcement has been made in this House. None has even been made outside the House, not even by the Caucus committee. International monetary reform has been declared today by the Prime Minister to be the most important issue of 1975. Not a single word was said by him in his statement as to the Australian Government's attitude to international monetary reform. All I can suggest to him is that he should read pages 32 and 33 of the document entitled 'National Economic Program 1975 ', which I released yesterday. I seek leave to incorporate pages 32 and 33 in Hansard. They state what Australia's attitude should be to international monetary reform. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Minerals and Energy. The Prime Minister has just said that the honourable gentleman agreed to the removal of all reservations relating to the decisions of the International Court of Justice. I remind the honourable gentleman that one of the reservations was that Australia would not submit to the jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice in relation to Australia's continental shelf. I remind the honourable gentleman that there are vast differences of view as to what should be the continental shelf as between those countries that have it, such as Australia, and those that do not. Will the honourable gentleman tell me when he agreed to the withdrawal of this reservation? Will he table any relevant documents which passed between him and the Prime Minister or other Ministers? 
asked the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, upon notice: 
Will he provide a list of all formal committees, councils, etc., thathave been established which enable him or officers of his Department to maintain contact with State Government Ministers or State Government officers. 
When was each body established and by whom. 
What is the (a) composition and (b) function of each body. 
On what occasions has each body met in the last two years and for what purpose. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Did the present Minister for Labor and Immigration state on 1 7 September 1 972, with the authority of the present Prime Minister, that reports by the Defence Standards Laboratories relating to tests made on a wide range of consumer products should be published and made available to the Australian Consumers' Association. 
If so, which of these reports have (a) been made public and (b) been made available to the Australian Consumers' Association since 2 December 1972. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) When did the Public Service Board begin its review of the provisions of Public Service Regulation 84 which governs whether public servants will travel first or economy class. 
Has any report been submitted to the Government in relation to this review. 
If so, when was it received by the Government, and has the Government considered it. 
If a report has not been submitted, when will the review be completed, and when is it expected that the Government will reach a final decision on this matter. 
What proportion of travel undertaken by Third and Fourth Division officers of the Public Service has been in the first class category in each of the last 5 years. 
What proportion of all travel undertaken by public servants in all divisions has been in the first class category in each of the last 5 years. 
What is the estimated annual saving if travel undertaken by Third and Fourth Division officers was not at first class rate. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What would be the taxation yield, given present taxation rates, if the provision for taxing 5 per cent of the capital value of a residence as an imputed income were reintroduced. 
asked the Minister for Manufacturing Industry, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the establishment of the National Small Business Bureau. 
What is the function of each position. . . 
asked the Minister for Manufacturing Industry, upon notice: 
When will a national regional network of the small business bureau be established as promised. 
How many centres will be involved in the network. 
Where will they be located. 
asked the Minister for the Environment and Conservation, upon notice: 
What are the safety regulations governing the establishment of petro-chemical plants within Australia. 
asked the Minister for Manufacturing Industry, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the Australian Government finding it very hard to stop people consuming goods which do not make them happy and which they do not really need as the Minister for the Environment and Conservation said on 7 July 1974. 
) What types of goods are involved. 
What measures has he taken to stop manufacturers producing these goods for consumption. 
If no measures have been taken, what steps are envisaged. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
With reference to the answer to question No. 548 (Hansard, 19 September 1974, page 1621) in which the Prime Minister indicated that the form and frequency of exercises in Government Departments in civil defence preparedness are as determined by individual Departments, on what dates in the last 1 8 months have exercises of this nature been conducted in the Postmaster-General 's Department. 
) Which officers and employees took part. 
How many officers and employees took part. 
What was the purpose of each of the exercises. 
Does the Postmaster-General accept that this is an area where the Australian Government can give a lead to other employers. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
With reference to his answer to question No. 869 (Hansard, 24 September 1974, page 1764), to what nongovernment, defence-related research and development projects or programs does the Government (a) provide financial assistance or (b) otherwise support. 
What is the extent of the financial assistance in each case. 
In what form is other support provided. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
With reference to the answer to question No. 548 (Hansard, 19 September 1974, page 1621) in which the Prime Minister indicated that the form and frequency of exercises in Government Departments in civil defence preparedness are as determined by individual Departments, on what dates in the last 1 8 months have exercises of this nature been conducted in his Department. 
Which officers and employees took part. 
How many officers and employees took pan. 
What was the purpose of each of the exercises. 
Does he accept that this is an area where the Australian Government can give a lead to other employers. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the turn around time of ships of varying size and capacity in each of the Australian ports. 
How many vessels were loaded or unloaded in each Australian port in each of the last 10 years. 
What was the cash value pf goods loaded or unloaded in each Australian port in each of the last 10 years. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Will he provide a list showing the exact location of all air strips in Australia and indicating which ones are presently owned and operated by (a) the Australian Government, (b) State Governments, (c) local government or (d) private interests. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
Will he table, or make available to the Opposition, the report of the inter-departmental committee to which he referred in his answer to question No. 274 (Hansard, 17 October 1974, page 2590)? 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
What programs does his Department or statutory authorities under his control administer which enable individual groups or people in the community to apply for grants from the Australian Government for a specific purpose. 
What is the name of each program. 
3 ) What is the purpose of each program. 
What are the conditions surrounding eligibility for a grant under each program. 
) When did each program commence. 
What is the legal authority for the existence of each program. 
How is the community informed of the existence of each program, and its entitlement to apply for a grant. 
How many applications for grants under each program have been received in each of the last 3 years or for the period of operation of the program if it has been in operation less than 3 years. 
Who decides which applications for grants should be accepted. 
What percentage of applications for grants under each program have been successful in each of the last 3 years or in each of the years in which the program has been operating if it has been in operation for less than 3 years. 
What proportion of total funds allocated under each program in each of the last 3 years, or in each year the program has been operating where it has been in operation for less than 3 years, have been allocated to individuals as against groups. 
Are any attempts made to assess the extent to which the widest cross-section of the community is aware of the existence of the program, and the means by which applications can be submitted; if so, what attempts. 
What checks are made once applications are received for each program to determine if the attempts to widen access to the funds have been successful. 
Is he confident that the widest cross-section of the community is aware of the existence of the programs, and is aware of the application process. 
What procedures exist to assess the use to which the grants are being put, and to attempt some accountability for the money granted. 
What is the total amount that has been paid out under each program in each of the last 3 years or in each year of the operation of the program if it has been operating for less than 3 years. 
17) What is the total amount of money paid out for all such programs administered by his Department or authorities under his control. 
What attempts are made to ensure that the same individual organisations or persons do not receive several grants under different programs which he or other Ministers are responsible for and which, when added together, may be unwarranted. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
What programs does the Postmaster-General's Department or statutory authorities under the PostmasterGeneral 's control administer which enable individual groups or people in the community to apply for grants from the Australian Government for a specific purpose. 
What is the name of each program. 
3 ) What is the purpose of each program. 
What are the conditions surrounding eligibility for a grant under each program. 
When did each program commence. 
What is the legal authority for the existence of each program. 
How is the community informed of the existence of each program, and its entitlement to apply for a gram. 
How many applications for grants under each program have been received in each of the last 3 years or for the period of operation of the program if it has been in operation less than 3 years. 
Who decides which applications for grants should be accepted. 
What percentage of applications for grants under each program have been successful in each of the last 3 years or in each of the years in which the program has been operating if it has been in operation for less than 3 years. 
What proportion of total funds allocated under each program in each of the last 3 years, or in each year the program has been operating where it has been in operation for less than 3 years, have been allocated to individuals as against groups. 
Are any attempts made to assess the extent to which the widest cross-section of the community is aware of the existence of the program, and the means by which applications can be submitted; if so, what attempts. 
What checks are made once applications are received for each program to determine if the attempts to widen access to the funds have been successful. 
Is the Postmaster-General confident that the widest cross-section of the community is aware of the existence of the programs, and is aware of the application process. 
What procedures exist to assess the use to which the grants are being put, and to attempt some accountability for the money granted. . . 
What is the total amount that has been paid out under each program in each of the last 3 years or in each year of the operation of the program if it has been operating for less than 3 years. 
17) What is the total amount of money paid out for all such programs administered by the Postmaster-General's Department or authorities under the Postmaster-General's control. 
What attempts are made to ensure that the same individual organisations or persons do not receive several grants under different programs which the PostmasterGeneral or other Ministers are responsible for and which, when added together, may be unwarranted. 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the name of each publication prepared by his Department for distribution to the public. 
How often is the publication printed. 
Which offices of his Department are responsible for the preparation of each publication. 
What is the purpose of each publication. 
) What is the cost of each edition of the publication. 
How many copies of each edition of the publication are produced. 
How many people receive the publication. 
Is it distributed free of charge. 
If so, to whom and how is it distributed to them. 
10) If not, what is the selling cost of the publication and what are the retail outlets. 
When was the publication first produced. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the name of each publication prepared by his Department for distribution to the public. 
How often is the publication printed. 
Which offices of his Department are responsible for the preparation of each publication. 
What is the purpose of each publication. 
What is the cost of each edition of the publication. 
How many copies of each edition of the publication are produced. 
How many people receive the publication. 
Is it distributed free of charge. 
If so, to whom and how is it distributed to them. 
10) If not, what is the selling cost of the publication and what are the retail outlets. 
When was the publication first produced. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the name of each publication prepared by the Department of Customs and Excise for distribution to the public. 
How often is the publication printed. 
Which offices of the Department are responsible for the preparation of each publication. 
What is the purpose of each publication. 
What is the cost of each edition of the publication. 
How many copies of each edition of the publication are produced. 
How many people receive the publication. 
Is it distributed free of charge. 
If so, to whom and how is it distributed to them. 
10) If not, what is the selling cost of the publication, and what are the retail outlets. 
When was the publication first produced. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
What is the name of each publication prepared by his Department for distribution to the public 
How often is the publication printed. 
Which offices of his Department are responsible for the preparation of each publication. 
What is the purpose of each publication. 
What is the cost of each edition of the publication. 
How many copies of each edition of the publication are produced. 
How many people receive the publication. 
Is it distributed free of charge. 
If so, to whom and how is it distributed to them. 
10) If not, what is the selling cost of the publication and what are the retail outlets. 
When was the publication first produced. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the name of each publication prepared by his Department for distribution to the public. 
How often is the publication printed. 
Which offices of his Department are responsible for the preparation of each publication. 
What is the purpose of each publication. 
What is the cost of each edition of the publication. 
How many copies of each edition of the publication are produced. 
How many people receive the publication. 
Is it distributed free of charge. 
If so, to whom and how is it distributed to them. 
10) If not, what is the selling cost of the publication and what are the retail outlets. 
When was the publication first produced. 
asked the Special Minister of State, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the name of each publication prepared by his Department for distribution to the public. 
How often is the publication printed. 
Which offices of his Department are responsible for the preparation of each publication. 
What is the purpose of each publication. 
5 ) What is the cost of each edition of the publication. 
How many copies of each edition of the publication are produced. 
How many people receive the publication. 
8 ) Is it distributed free of charge. 
If so, to whom and how is it distributed to them. 
10) If not, what is the selling cost of the publication and what are the retail outlets. 
When was the publication first produced. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the name of each publication prepared by the Postmaster-General's Department for distribution to the public. 
How often is the publication printed. 
Which offices of the Department are responsible for the preparation of each publication. 
What is the purpose of each publication. 
5 ) What is the cost of each edition of the publication. 
How many copies of each edition of the publication are produced. 
How many people receive the publication. 
8 ) Is it distributed free of charge. 
If so, to whom and how is it distributed to them. 
10) If not, what is the selling cost of the publication and what are the retail outlets. 
When was the publication first produced. 
asked the Minister for Manufacturing Industry, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the name of each publication prepared by his Department for distribution on the public. 
) How often is the publication printed. 
Which offices of his Department are responsible for the preparation of each publication. 
What is the purpose of each publication. 
5 ) What is the cost of each edition of the publication. 
How many copies of each edition of the publication are produced. 
How many people receive the publication. 
Is it distributed free of charge. 
If so, to whom and how is it distributed to them. 
If not, what is the selling cost of the publication and what are the retail outlets. 
When was the publication first produced. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
1 ) How are copies of Ministerial press releases circulated. 
To whom are they circulated. 
How many copies are circulated in total. 
What is the total annual cost, including salary and administration charges, in producing and distributing Ministerial press releases. 
How many public servants in his Department are involved with the distribution of press releases. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) How are copies of Ministerial press releases circulated. 
To whom are they circulated. 
How many copies are circulated in total. 
What is the total annual cost, including salary and administration charges, in producing and distrubuting Ministerial press releases. 
How many public servants in his Department are involved with the distribution of press releases. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
1 ) How are copies of Ministerial press releases circulated. 
To whom are they circulated. 
How many copies are circulated in total. 
What is the total annual cost, including salary and administration charges, in producing and distributing Ministerial press releases. 
How many public servants in the Attorney-General's Depanment are involved with the distribution of press releases. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) How are copies of Ministerial press releases circulated. 
To whom are they circulated. 
3 ) How many copies are circulated in total. 
What is the total annual cost, including salary and administration charges, in producing and distributing Ministerial press releases. 
How many public servants in his Department are involved with the distribution of press releases. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
1 ) How are copies of Ministerial press releases circulated. 
2 ) To whom are they circulated. 
) How many copies are circulated in total. 
What is the total annual cost including salary and administration charges, in producing and distributing Ministerial press releases. 
How many public servants in the PostmasterGeneral's Department are involved with the distribution of press releases. 
asked the Special Minister of State, upon notice: 
1 ) How are copies of Ministerial press releases circulated. 
To whom are they circulated. 
How many copies are circulated in total. 
What is the total annual cost, including salary and administration charges, in producing and distributing Ministerial press releases. 
How many public servants in his Department are involved with the distribution of press releases. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Can he say what is the total spending in Australia on arts by the Commonwealth and State Governments. 
If so, will he provide the details to me. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
I ) What progress has been made by the working party on social welfare manpower, established by the Social Welfare Commission under section 17 of its Act. 
Has it presented any reports to him. 
If so, when and on what matters. 
Will these reports be made public. 
If not when is it expected to make a report to the Government. 
Will the report be made public. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Will he provide a table indicating the action that has been taken on each of the 15 specific programs for handicapped people that were announced by him prior to the last Federal election. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
Are any schools in Australia which are attended predominantly by persons of other than Aboriginal descent, conducting courses in Aboriginal culture, history and language. 
If so, where are the schools located, and how many students receive this instruction at each school. 
What is the average age of the students who receive this instruction. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
I ) What are the 44 consumer groups with which the interim commission on consumer standards has had continuous liaison. 
Who are the spokesmen for each of these groups, and where are they located. 
What is the function of each group. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) How many people in each sub-division of the Electoral Division of Bruce are in receipt of a pension at the present dme. 
What are the different categories of pension, and how many pensioners are there in each category. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
With reference to the answer to question No. 207 (Hansard, 2 August 1974, page 1 104) in which he provided information on the number of applications received by the Visual Arts Board of the Australian Council for the Arts from public art galleries and art collections for assistance for exhibitions, which of the applications were successful. 
What was the purpose of the successful applications, when were the exhibitions held, and how many attended. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
With reference to the answer to question No. 208 (Hansard, 2 August 1974, page 1104) concerning applications received from public galleries or art collections for matching grants to purchase works of art by living Australian artists, which applications were successful, and what amounts were granted in each case. 
Which Australian artists are involved. 
What are their ages, and from which States did they come. 
asked the Special Minister of State, upon notice: 
What is the total establishment approved for the Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration. 
How many of the positions in this establishment are filled at the present time. 
What are the names, qualifications and previous employment of those presently filling positions. 
What is the function of each approved position. 
How many meetings have been held by the Commission, and on what dates. 
How many officers in each department or statutory authority have been relieved of normal duties in order to prepare departmental submissions for the  Commission. 
Will the Commission be submitting interim reports to the Government. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) How many people receiving an Australian age pension were born outside Australia. 
) In which countries were they born. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Will he provide a list of all departments, other than the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, which have, some responsibility for Aboriginal affairs. 
2 ) Which sections of each department are involved. 
What is the function of these sections. ', ,t 
How many officers or employees are employed in these sections. 
5 ) Where are the officers or employees located. 
How many of these officers or employees are Aboriginals. 
What is the total number of officers or employees in each department or statutory authority, other than the Depanment of Aboriginal Affairs who have a responsibility for Aboriginal affairs. 
How many interdepartmental committees have been formed combining these departments with the Depatment of Aboriginal Affairs to ensure the maximum co-ordination between departments responsible for aspects of Aboriginal affairs. 
What is the function, timetable and charter of each such interdepartmental committee. 
asked the Special Minister of State, upon notice: 
1 ) Is he responsible for the overseas visits committee. 
If so, what is the current establishment and staff of the committee. 
What was the establishment and staff of the committee on 2 December 1972. 
What is the purpose of the committee. 
When was it established. 
What are the names of the officers presently on the committee. 
How many submissions for overseas visits by each department or statutory authority have been examined by the committee in each of the last 5 years. 
How many overseas visits have been made by public servants in each of the last 5 years. 
What percentage of these visits have been made by (a) first, (b) second, (c) third and fourth division officers. 
What is the percentage increase in the number of overseas visits by public servants in each department in each of the last five years. 
How many public servants have made overseas visits on official business in each of the last five years. 
What is the percentage increase or decrease in the number of public servants who have undertaken overseas visits on official business in each of the last 5 years. 
What was the total cost of overseas visits by public servants on official business in each department or statutory authority in each of the last five years. 
14) What is the percentage increase in the total cost of overseas visits by public servants on official visits in each of the last 5 years. 
Does the committee submit a report to the Government. 
How many submissions for overseas visits have been rejected by the committee in respect of each department or statutory authority in each of the last 5 years. 
What percentage of submissions for overseas visits by each department or statutory authority have been rejected by the committee in each of the last 5 years. 
Who has the final responsibility for approving an overseas visit by public servants. 
Can the overseas visits committee overrule the recommendation of a Minister in an individual department. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
1 ) What programs does the Department of the Media or statutory authorities under the Minister's control administer which enable individual groups or people in the community to apply for grants from the Australian Government for a specific purpose. 
What is the name of each program. 
) What is the purpose of each program. 
What are the conditions surrounding eligibility for a grant under each program. 
When did each program commence. 
What is the legal authority for the existence of each program. 
How is the community informed of the existence of each program, and its entitlement to apply for a grant 
How many applications for grants under each program have been received in each of the last 3 years or for the period of operation of the program if it has been in operation less than 3 years. 
Who decides which applications for grants should be accepted. 
What percentage of applications for grants under each program have been successful in each of the last 3 years or in each of the years in which the program has been operating if it has been in operation for less than 3 years. 
What proportion of total funds allocated under each program in each of the last 3 years, or in each year the program has been operating where it has been in operation for less than 3 years, have been allocated to individuals as against groups. 
Are any attempts made to assess the extent to which the widest cross-section of the community is aware of the existence of the program, and the means by which applications can be submitted; if so, what attempts. 
What checks are made once applications are received for each program to determine if the attempts to widen access to the funds have been successful. 
14) Is the Minister confident that the widest cross-section of the community is aware of the existence of the program, and is aware of the application process. 
What procedures exist to assess the use to which the grants are being put, and to attempt some accountability for the money granted. 
What is the total amount that has been paid out under each program in each of the last 3 years or in each year of the operation of the program if it has been operating for less than 3 years. 
17) What is the total amount of money paid out for all such programs administered by the Department of the Media or authorities under the Minister's control. 
What attempts are made to ensure that the same individual organisations or persons do not receive several grants under different programs which the Minister or other Ministers are responsible for and which, when added together, may be unwarranted. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
What programs does his Department or statutory authorities under his control administer which enable individual groups or people in the community to apply for grants from the Australian Government for a specific purpose. 
What is the name of each program. 
What is the purpose of each program. 
What are the conditions surrounding eligibility for a grant under each program. 
5 ) When did each program commence. 
What is the legal authority for the existence of each program. 
How is the community informed of the existence of each program, and its entitlement to apply for a grant. 
How many applications for grants under each program have been received in each of the last 3 years or for the period of operation of the program if it has been in operation less than 3 years. 
Who decides which applications for grants should be accepted. 
10) What percentage of applications for grants under each program have been successful in each of the last 3 years or in each of the years in which the program has been operating if it has been in operation for less than 3 years. 
What proportion of total funds allocated under each program in each of the last 3 years, or in each year the program has been operating where it has been in operation for less than 3 years, have been allocated to individuals as against groups. 
Are any attempts made to assess the extent to which the widest cross-section of the community is aware of the existence of the program, and the means by which applications can be submitted; if so, what attempts. 
What checks are made once applications are received for each program to determine if the attempts to widen access to the funds have been successful. 
Is he confident that the widest cross-section of the community is aware of the existence of the programs, and is aware of the application process. 
What procedures exist to assess the use to which the grants are being put, and to attempt some accountability for the money granted. 
What is the total amount that has been paid out under each program in each of the last 3 years or in each year of the operation of the program if it has been operating for less than 3 years. 
17) What is the total amount of money paid out for all such programs administered by his Depanment or authorities under his control. 
What attempts are made to ensure that the same individual organisation or persons do not receive several grants under different programs which he or other Ministers are responsible for and which, when added together, may be unwarranted. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the name of each publication prepared by the Depanment of Agriculture for distribution to the public. 
How often is the publication printed. 
Which offices of the Depanment are responsible for the preparation of each publication. 
What is the purpose of each publication. 
) What is the cost of each edition of the publication. 
How many copies of each edition of the publication are produced. 
How many people receive the publication. 
Is it distributed free of charge. 
If so, to whom and how is it distributed to them. 
10) If not, what is the selling cost of the publication and what are the retail outlets. 
When was the publication first produced. 
asked the Minister for Northern Development, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the name of each publication prepared by his Department for distribution to the public. 
How often is the publication printed. 
Which offices of his Department are responsible for the preparation of each publication. 
What is the purpose of each publication. 
5 ) What is the cost of each edition of the publication. 
How many copies of each edition of the publication are produced. 
7 ) How many people receive the publication. 
8 ) Is it distributed free of charge. 
If so, to whom and how is it distributed to them. 
If not, what is the selling cost of the publication and what are the retail outlets. 
When was the publication first produced. 
asked the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the name of each publication prepared by his Department for distribution to the public. 
How often is the publication printed. 
Which offices of his Department are responsible for the preparation of each publication. 
What is the purpose of each publication. 
) What is the cost of each edition of the publication. 
How many copies of each edition of the publication are produced. 
How many people receive the publication. . 
Is it distributed free of charge. 
If so, to whom and how is it distributed to them. 
10) If not, what is the selling cost of the publication, and what are the retail outlets. 
When was the publication first produced. 
asked the Minister for Northern Development, upon notice: 
1 ) How are the copies of Ministerial press releases circulated. 
To whom are they circulated. 
How many copies are circulated in total. 
What is the total annual cost, including salary and administration charges, in producing and distributing Ministerial press releases. 
How many public servants in his Department are involved with the distribution of press releases. 
asked the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice: 
How many copies of Ministerial press releases circulated. 
To whom are they circulated. 
How many copies are circulated in total. 
What is the total annual cost, including salary and administration charges, in producing and distributing Ministerial press releases. 
How many public servants in his Department are involved with the distribution of press releases. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) How are copies of Ministerial press releases circulated. 
To whom are they circulated. 
How many copies are circulated in total. 
What is the total annual cost, including salary and administration charges, in producing and distributing Ministerial press releases. 
How many public servants in his Depanment are involved with the distribution of press releases. 
asked the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice: 
What steps has he taken to establish expert tribunals to assess building development proposals after hearing evidence in public from all affected parties. 

 Mr Les Johnson: The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
My suggestion for the establishment of expert tribunals to assess building development proposals can only be fully implemented with the active co-operation of State and local governments. 
The State Council of the New South Wales Branch of the Australian Labor Party has endorsed my suggestion, and I regret that similar enthusiasm has not been shown by other political parties. 
My colleague, the Minister for the Environment and Conservation, has recently introduced the Environmental Protection (Impact of Proposals) Bill, which will apply to a much wider range of proposals than I originally suggested. A considerable pan of this Bill deals with public inquiries. 
I look forward to this significant initiative being emulated by State Governments in respect of proposals outside the constitutional power of the Australian Parliament 
Diseases: Entry into Australia (Question No. 1104) 
asked the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice: 
With reference to the answer to question No. 548 (Hansard, 19 September 1974, page 1621) in which the Prime Minister indicated that the form and frequency of exercises in Government Departments in civil defence preparedness are as determined by individual Departments, on what dates in the last 18 months have exercises of this nature been conducted in his Depanment. 
Which officers and employees took part. 
) How many officers and employees took part. 
What was the purpose of each of the exercises. 
Does he accept that this is an area where the Australian Government can give a lead to other employers. 
asked the Special Minister of State, upon notice: 
How many refusals in respect of access to National Library books, documents and papers have there been since 2 December 1972. 
Who was refused access and for what reason, and who refused access in each case. 
asked the Minister for Services and Property, upon notice: 
In which municipalities is Commonwealth-owned land located. 
What is the individual and total acreage of such land within each municipality. 
What is the assessed value of each piece of land in each municipality. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
1) What is the name of each publication prepared by his Department for distribution to the public. 
How often is the publication printed. 
Which offices of his Department are responsible for the preparation of each publication. 
What is the purpose of each publication. 
5 ) What is the cost of each edition of the publication. 
How many copies of each edition of the publication are produced. 
How many people receive the publication. 
Is it distributed free of charge. 
If so, to whom and how is it distributed to them. 
If not, what is the selling cost of the publication and what are the retail outlets. 
When was the publication first produced. 
asked the Minister for Services and Property, upon notice: 
With reference to the answer to question No. 548 (Hansard, 19 September 1974, page 1621) in which the Prime Minister indicated that the form and frequency of exercises in Government Departments in civil defence preparedness are as determined by individual Departments, on what dates in the last 1 8 months have exercises of this nature been conducted in his Department. 
) Which officers and employees took part. 
How many officers and employees took part. 
What was the purpose of each of the exercises. 
Does he accept that this is an area where the Australian Government can give a lead to other employers. 
asked the Minister for the Environment and Conservation, upon notice: 
What programs does his Department or statutory authorities under his control administer which enable individual groups or people in the community to apply for grants from the Australian Government for a specific purpose. 
What is the name of each program. 
What is the purpose of each program. 
What are the conditions surrounding eligibility for a grant under each program. 
When did each program commence. 
What is the legal authority for the existence of each program. 
How is the community informed of the existence of each program, and its entitlement to apply for a grant. 
How many applications for grants under each program have been received in each of the last 3 years or for the period of operation of the program if it has been in operation less than 3 years. 
Who decides which applications for grants should be accepted. 
What percentage of applications for grants under each program have been successful in each of the last 3 years or in each of the years in which the program has been operating if it has been operation for less than 3 years. 
What proportion of total funds allocated under each program in each of the last 3 years, or in each year the program has been operating where it has been in operation for less than 3 years, have been allocated to individuals as against groups. 
Are any attempts made to assess the extent to which the widest cross-section of the community is aware of the existence of the program, and the means by which applications can be submitted; if so, what attempts. 
What checks are made once applications are received for each program to determine if the attempts to widen access to the funds have been successful. 
Is he confident that the widest cross-section of the community is aware of the existence of the program, and is aware of the application process. 
What procedures exist to assess the use to which the grants are being put, and to attempt some accountability for the money granted. 
16) What is the total amount that has been paid out under each program in each of the last 3 years or in each year of the operation of the program if it has been operating for less than 3 years. 
What is the total amount of money paid out for all such programs administered by bis Department or authorities under his control. 
What attempts are made to ensure that the same individual organisations or person do not receive several grants under different programs which he or other Ministers are responsible for and which, when added together, may be unwarranted. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) How many officers or employees of his Department or of authorities under his control are employed on research and development work. 
Where are they employed. 
What is the nature of the work being undertaken. 
What is the total expenditure per annum in maintaining this research and development program. 
Who decides the nature of the programs or projects included in this research and development work. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
With reference to the answer to question No. 548 (Hansard, 19 September 1974, page 1621) in which the Prime Minister indicated that the form and frequency of exercises in Government Departments in civil defence preparedness are as determined by individual departments, on what dates in the last 1 8 months have exercises of this nature been conducted in his Department. 
Which officers and employees took part. 
How many officers and employees took pan. 
What was the purpose of each of the exercises. 
Does he accept that this is an area where the Australian Government can give a lead to other employers. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
With reference to the answer to question No. 419 (Hansard, 23 August 1974, page 1225), how many laboratories have been used to test radioisotope diagnostic kits before release. 
What are their names. 
What is the level of accuracy and precision of each of the test kits as disclosed by these tests. 
What is the inter-laboratory variation revealed by these tests. 
What is the intra-laboratory variation revealed by repeated testing of these kits. 
Will the results of the Quality Assurance Program be made available; if so, when; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
1 ) What programs does the Department of Agriculture or statutory authorities under the Minister's control administer which enable individual groups or people in the community to apply for grants from the Australian Government for a specific purpose. 
What is the name of each program. 
What is the purpose of each program. 
What are the conditions surrounding eligibility for a grant under each program. 
When did each program commence. 
What is the legal authority for the existence of each program. 
How is the community informed of the existence of each program, and its entitlement to apply for a grant. 
How many applications for grants under each program have been received in each of the last 3 years or for the period of operation of the program if it has been in operation less than 3 years. 
Who decides which applications for grants should be accepted. 
What percentage of applications for grants under each program have been successful in each of the last 3 years or in each of the years in which the program has been operating if it has been in operation for less than 3 years. 
What proportion of total funds allocated under each program in each of the last 3 years, or in each year the program has been operating where it has been in operation for less than 3 years, have been allocated to individuals as against groups. 
Are any attempts made to assess the extent to which the widest cross-section of the community is aware of the existence of the program, and the means by which applications can be submitted; if so, what attempts. 
What checks are made once applications are received for each program to determine if the attempts to widen access to the funds have been successful. 
14) Is the Minister confident that the widest cross-section of the community is aware of the existence of the programs, and is aware of the application process. 
What procedures exist to assess the use to which the grants are being put, and to attempt some accountability for the money granted. 
What is the total amount that has been paid out under each program in each of the last 3 years or in each year of the operation of the program if it has been operating for less than 3 years. 
What is the total amount of money paid out for all such programs administered by the Department of Agriculture or authorities under the Minister's control. 
What attempts are made to ensure that the same individual organisations or persons do not receive several grants under different programs which the Minister or other Ministers are responsible for and which, when added together, may be unwarranted. 
asked the Minister for Services and Property, upon notice: 
How much office space owned or under lease by the Commonwealth is not being used at the present time. 
Where are the offices located. 
) How long have they remained unused. 
When is it expected that they will be used. 
Why are the offices unused at the present time in each case. 
asked the Minister for Services and Property, upon notice: 
How many Commonwealth offices has the government constructed or commissioned for construction since 2 December 1972. 
Where are they or will they be located. 
How many public servants will be located ineach office. 
What is the total cost of this construction program. 
5 ) What is the total size of these offices. 
How much additional office space has the Government leased since 2 December 1972. 
How many public servants are accommodated in this office space. 
What is the total (a) size of and (b) cost of this office space. 
What are the figures for the corresponding preceding period. 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. Does he agree that there should be cuts in Government expenditure? If he does agree that there should be cuts in Government expenditure, will he state in what areas expenditure should be cut? Does he agree that the Government ought to maintain its undertaking to pensioners to increase pensions and to abolish the means test? 
I address my question to the Prime Minister. Did the honourable gentleman say that any proposal to cut Government expenditure would amount to economic vandalism? Has he now totally changed his mind about proposals to cut Government expenditure? Did he have the courage to stand up for what he formerly believed? Did he have the courage to say to the Minister for Urban and Regional Development: 'You can have your money because I have been saying to the Australian public all along that we will not cut Government expenditure '? Did the Prime Minister one night in September 1973 - 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
asked the Minister for Science, upon notice: 
1 ) With which countries docs Australia share a scientific exchanges agreement. 
2 ) When was each agreement initiated. 
3 ) What is the purpose of each agreement. 
What has been achieved under each agreement. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. Does he recall that the Budget estimated that average weekly earnings would grow during the financial year by 22A per cent? Is he aware that average weekly earnings will, on those calculations, reach $157 a week in the June quarter of this year if the Budget estimate is realised? Will pensions accordingly be  increased by $8 a week in April, which is the first month of the June quarter, to bring them up to 25 per cent of average weekly earnings so that the election promise of the Labor Party can be fulfilled or has that promise been suspended? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
With reference to question No. 105 in which I asked how many women have been appointed to senior positions in the Department of the Media since 2 December 1972, is it a fact that the answer to question No. 97 to which the Minister referred me does not indicate how many women have been appointed to senior positions in the Department of the Media. 
Does the Minister know how many women have been appointed to senior positions in his Department. 
If so, in the interests of open government, will the Minister let me know directly in answer to this question the actual number. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
1 ) What was the total cost of all Government advertising that was placed with trade union journals in each of the last 5 years. 
In what journals were the advertisements placed. 
What was the purpose of the advertisements. 
What was the total cost of Government advertising placed in trade journals, other than trade union journals, in each of the last 5 years. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 1659 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 1 3 November 1 974. 
-Did the Prime Minister state at the weekend that wage increases were 5 times more important than tariff cuts in creating unemployment? With 3 1 1 000 Australians now out of work, does this mean that wage increases are responsible for the destruction of a quarter of a million jobs? Is this what the Deputy Prime Minister meant when he said that Australia is in its worst recession for half a century? 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
With reference to his answer to question No. 1473 (Hansard, 13 December 1973, page 4849), in which he indicated that his Department maintains a record of inter de- 'partmental committees in which it participates, does the list include (a) standing and (b) ad hoc committees. 
Has he sighted the list and does he intend to sight it on a regular basis. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
1 ) How many fellowships have been offered to academics to undertake research in the Department. 
) To whom have they been offered. 
What are the qualifications of each person. 
What is the name and location of the university, collegeor institute of which each is a member. 
What travel and other allowances are being made available to the fellows. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
1 ) How many officers or employees of his Department or of authorities under his control are employed on research and development work. 
Where are they employed. 
What is the nature of the work being undertaken 
What is the total expenditure per annum in maintaining this research and development program. 
Who decides the nature of the programs or projects included in this research and development work. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
How many people will receive copies of the publication 'Community '. 
Will it be distributed free of charge. 
Will he include in his answer a list of the persons to whom the publication will be sent. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
What programs does his Department or statutory authorities under his control administer which enable individual groups or people in the community to apply for grants from the Australian Government for a specific purpose. 
What is the name of each program. 
What is the purpose of each program. 
What are the conditions surrounding eligibility for a grant under each program. 
When did each program commence. 
What is the legal authority for the existence of each program. 
How is the community informed of the existence of each program, and its entitlement to apply for a grant. 
How many applications for grants under each program have been received in each of the last 3 years or for the period of operation of the program if it has been in operation less than 3 years. 
Who decides which applications for grants should be accepted. 
What percentage of applications for grants under each program have been successful in each of the last 3 years or in each of the years in which the program has been operating if it has been in operation for less than 3 years. 
What proportion of total funds allocated under each program in each of the last 3 years, or in each year the program has been operating where it has been in operation for less than 3 years, have been allocated to individuals as against groups. 
12) Are any attempts made to assess the extent to which the widest cross-section of the community is aware of the existence of the program, and the means by which applications can be submitted, if so, what attempts. 
What checks are made once applications are received for each program to determine if the attempts to widen access to the funds have been successful. 
Is he confident that the widest cross-section of the community is aware of the existence of the programs, and is aware of the application process. 
What procedures exist to assess the use to which the grants are being put, and to attempt some accountability for the money granted. 
What is the total amount that has been paid out under each program in each of the last 3 years or in each year of the operation of the program if it has been operating for less than 3 years. 
What is the total amount of money paid out for all such programs administered by his Department or Authorities under his control. 
What attempts are made to ensure that the same individual organisations or persons do not receive several grants under different programs which he or other Ministers are responsible for and which, when added together, may be unwarranted. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
1 ) How are copies of Ministerial press releases circulated. 
To whom are they circulated. 
3 ) How many copies are circulated in total. 
What is the total annual cost, including salary and administration charges, in producing and distributing Ministerial press releases. 
How many public servants in his Department are involved with the distribution of press releases. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
What is the composition of the committee of evaluators set up by the Social Welfare Commission to evaluate the Australian Assistance Plan. 
Does the Government intend to establish a series of State advisory committees on the Australian Assistance Plan. 
3 ) If so, what will be their function and composition. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Further to Question No. 1663 and the report by  Ms Elizabeth  Reid following her overseas visit, why do private staff who travel overseas on public money, on official business, not make public reports. 
asked the Special Minister of State, upon notice: 
What has been the population increase or decrease in (a) each State and Territory and (b) Australia in total in each of the last 5 years. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) What progress has been made by the committee of enquiry into aged persons housing. 
When is it expected that the committee will report to the Government. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. I have been misrepresented again by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  Unfortunately that misrepresentation was picked up and commented upon in the editorial of this morning's 'Sydney Morning Herald'. I was again misrepresented in that newspaper, although I forgive the 'Sydney Morning Herald ' for it. It is the deliberate policy of the Prime Minister to take words and misuse them. The Prime Minister alleged that I would destroy the national health scheme, the national compensation scheme and the national superannuation scheme. On page 630 of yesterday's Hansard the Prime Minister said: 
The Leader of the Opposition says that he would destroy the Prices Justification Tribunal, Medibank, the national compensation scheme and the national superannuation scheme. 
It is time that the Prime Minister spoke correctly and did not misrepresent the situation. The Opposition 's attitudes are clear. They are published in 'The Way Ahead', which happens to be the most extensive policy document ever put before the Australian people. The policy attitudes of the joint Opposition Parties have been set out. Specifically, we have stated that we will abolish the Prices Justification Tribunal which has done positive economic harm and which union and business leaders unanimously agree has not succeeded. The Government itself has recognised that that is so by reversing its instruction to the Tribunal for a squeeze on profits. Indeed, the Prime Minister indicated to this House that he would write a letter to the Prices Justification Tribunal asking it to change its methods and to allow profits. 
-Yes. It has been alleged that I have said that we would dismantle most of the measures which have been taken by the Labor Party, and that misrepresentation needs to be cleared up. We have stated that we will abolish the Department of the Media which we regard as an unnecessary and interfering propaganda bureaucracy designed ultimately to interfere with the freedom of the media to the benefit of the Labor Party. 
The misrepresentation was made by the Prime Minister. I have quoted the relevant part of Hansard. The Prime Minister's statement was directed to me. He said that the Leader of the Opposition says that he would destroy certain things. He went on to speak of the Prices Justification Tribunal, Medibank, the national compensation scheme and the national superannuation scheme. He said: 
We have this extraordinary situation that in the Senate at the moment the National Compensation Bill is being considered by a committee composed of equal numbers from both sides of the Senate. Now the Leader of the Opposition completely destroys its deliberations. 
The 'Sydney Morning Herald' picked up the statement made by the Prime Minister and claims that I have said that I would dismantle most of the things that the Labor Party has done., In those circumstances and in accordance with the Standing Orders, I believe that I have a perfect right to explain to the House precisely what I would do, in order to set right the misrepresentations that have occurred. 
It was incorrect,  Mr Speaker. 
All right,  Mr Speaker.  The  Sydney Morning Herald ' editorial reads: 
He would not, of course,' be doing his job properly if he failed to press the case for the Opposition's alternative policies- which might, certainly, include the dismantling of some of Labor's policies. But to undertake to dismantle most of them is quite another matter. 
I am making it clear that that is a misrepresentation. What I have said is exactly what we would do and that does not amount to dismantling most of Labor's policies. It amounts to dismantling those which are objectionable, unrealistic and improper. We would abolish the Petroleum and Minerals Authority. In every other area the Opposition is committed to the constructive improvement of legislation and Government schemes.. We have supported the principles of the national compensation and national superannuation schemes. What I have said is that we are not prepared to support such principles being implemented in such a way as to achieve massive transfers of funds from the private sector, out of the people's purse, into the public purse so that the public authorities can then introduce into and control the private sector in any way they wish. It is consistent with all that I have said that we oppose the accumulation of giant funds by government authorities under the national compensation scheme, the national superannuation scheme and Medibank. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Does his Department maintain a record of interdepartmental committees in which it participates. 
If not, then how is he aware of all the interdepartmental consultations in which his Department is involved through inter-departmental committees. 
Will he ensure that such a list is in future available to him. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the name of each publication prepared by his Department for distribution to the public. 
How often is the publication printed. 
Which offices of his Department are responsible for the preparation of each publication. 
What is the purpose of each publication. 
5 ) What is the cost of each edition of the publication. 
How many copies of each edition of the publication are produced. 
How many people receive the publication. 
Is it distributed free of charge. 
If so, to whom and how is it distributed to them. 
10) If not, what is the selling cost of the publication and what are the retail outlets. 
When was the publication first produced. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
What assistance does the Government provide to the Australian Volunteer Coast Guard Organisation. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
How many interdepartmental committees are currently operating. 
I direct my question to the Prime Minister. Has the Prime Minister advocated a recovery of profits? Does he therefore advocate that prices should rise at a higher rate than wages to permit this process? 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explantion 
-No, I specifically am not going to debate the question. 
-You will be entitled to do so,  Mr Speaker  and I will do so. The misrepresentation was to the effect that there was some change in my attitude towards opposition to the Medibank scheme. Let it be totally clearly understood that I am completely and absolutely opposed to the Medibank scheme, have been and will continue to be. Both the Liberal Party and the Australian Country Party are totally opposed to the Medibank scheme. If the Minister says anything to the contrary he is misusing the truth. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the Leader of the Opposition moving that the House censure the Prime Minister for his disgraceful conduct in abusing the  Speaker  and attempting by intimidation to have the  Speaker  favour the Government and his Ministers, and by his actions lead directly - 
That the Leader of the Opposition be not further heard. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The Minister may not move that motion until such time as the Leader of the Opposition has moved his motion. 
-We have just witnessed a matter the like of which has never occurred in the lifetime of this Parliament. I would think that it has never occurred in the lifetime of any other Westminster parliamentary system. 
That the Leader of the Opposition be not further heard. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I raise a matter of privilege. The matter of privilege is the intimidation of the then  Speaker  by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  It is not open to us to know whether he is still the  Speaker  or not. 
I move: 
That the House do now adjourn until such time as the Speaker's resignation has been accepted by the GovernorGeneral and the  Clerk  is ready to conduct a ballot to determine a successor. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The honourable gentleman will resume his seat. Firstly, the motion is out of order. Under the Standing Orders of this House, only a Minister can move for the adjournment of the House. Secondly, it is inappropriate to suggest that any ballot be held for the election of a  Speaker  because the  Speaker  of the House of Representatives is  Mr James  Cope. He has not to my knowledge taken any action to change that situation. 
Opposition members- What is happening? 
I wish to move that so much of the Standing Orders- 
I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent me moving that the House do now adjourn until such time as the Speaker's resignation has been accepted by the Governor-General and the  Clerk  is ready to conduct a ballot to determine his successor. 

 - Mr Speaker, you come to the Chair in unique circumstances. They have never previously occurred in this chamber. I know of" no precedent in any other Westminster Parliament. Today the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitiam),  the Leader of the Government, the Leader on the ministerial side of the chamber, was seen by the chamber to intimidate your predecessor. He was seen to speak to the former  Speaker  in circumstances which made it abundantly clear that the words used were abusive. It was apparent to us all that the Prime Minister was intent not only on the destruction of a man but also he was totally reckless as to whether he also destroyed this institution- the Parliament. He not only intimidated the former  Speaker,  he also took unto himself the role of answering for the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron).  As the galley copies of Hansard show, your predecessor said: 
Order! I ask the Minister for Labor and Immigration to apologise to the Chair. I ask the Minister for Labor and Immigration to apologise to the Chair. I ask the Minister for Labor and Immigration to apologise to the Chair. Order! Is the Minister going to apologise? 
The Prime Minister said: 'No'. He answered for the Minister for Labor and Immigration. Tonight I received a telegram. I accept it in good faith. It is addressed to me and it reads: 
Telegram as follows sent Jim Cope with copy to Gough Whitlam: Congratulations on your courageous stand in tendering your resignation as Speaker of the House in view of the unprincipled action of the obviously incumbent member for Hindmarsh in his autocratic and  demogoron  actions. His attitude in Parliament is synonymous with the inactivity of giving proper realisation to the needs of the unemployed in various parts of Australia and particularly at Ingham in north Queensland. I repeat congratulations. 
It is signed 'Edgar Williams,  President,  Australian Workers Union'. 
Not only did the Prime Minister abuse, intimidate, destroy and answer for the Minister for Labor and Immigration, but he also interfered in the duties of the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly).  It is a well established practice of this Parliament and of all Westminster-style parliaments that when the  Speaker  names a member the Minister at the table- according to our practice, the Leader of the House- stands and moves that the member named be suspended from the service of the House. It was clear to us that the Leader of the House moved to do so in accordance with the tradition. It was equally clear that the Prime Minister interceded to prevent the Leader of the House from taking that course of action.  Mr Speaker,  the Leader of the House acted in a quite different way from your predecessor,  Mr Speaker  Cope, for  Mr Speaker  Cope acted courageously, according to principle, but the Leader of the House did not. He resumed his seat and offered no support whatever to your predecessor,  Mr Speaker  Cope. 

 Mr Speaker, I am sure you are well aware that the Speaker's role is to protect the institution of parliament. Throughout history Speakers have come reluctantly to the chair- as you were, by tradition, dragged to the chair tonight. In the early days of parliament a  Speaker  ran the risk of death, and that was why he came so reluctantly.  Mr Speaker,  I wonder whether that was why you came so reluctantly tonight. Do you have the fear of death upon you if you act against the wishes of your Party? The role of the  Speaker  is to protect the parliament and the institution of parliament. In this Parliament, as in all Westminster-style parliaments, there is a government and an opposition side. All the standing orders, all the practice and the whole of the conventions of the Parliament are built around a government and an opposition side. 
It is the duty of a  Speaker  to uphold the traditions of the parliament, to maintain a balance between the government and the opposition and to make sure that the opposition is not disadvantaged in any way, for to disadvantage the opposition is to cripple the democratic parliamentary system. Therefore,  Mr Speaker,  you have a heavy duty upon you. I ask you: Can any  Speaker  control only the Opposition? The answer is clearly no. For the  Speaker  to be a successful  Speaker  and to maintain the practice of the Parliament he must control, without fear and without favour, both the Opposition and the Government. When he ceases to control the Government he ceases to serve the interests of Parliament and will cease to have the support of every member of the Parliament as he should. Nothing will be served by his being kept in office only by members of his own Party wishing to support the Government. 
From today's performance it is clear that a  Speaker  under the present Prime Minister will need to have very great courage to stand for the principles which he is elected to uphold in this chamber. As the present incumbent in a long series of Speakers, not just in this Parliament but in the history and the tradition of Parliament, you,  Mr Speaker,  must have the courage of principle, as your predecessor disclosed today he did have. But, other members of this House disclosed today they did not have the courage and conviction of principle.  Mr Speaker,  you come to this office greatly disadvantaged. The reason you come greatly disadvantaged is that you cannot, on today's performance, expect to have the support of the Government members in this House if you, in the discharge of your duty, believe it is necessary for you to discipline a member on the Government side. You are seriously disadvantaged. I say to you,  Mr Speaker,  that you should declare forthrightly and show by every action that you take that you do have the courage of the commitment and conviction to principle that this Parliament will function with full recognition of the rights of the Opposition and the Government and the obligations of the Opposition and of the Government. 

 Mr Speaker, in the course of the conduct of your duties I think you will have to make sure that the answers given by Ministers to questions are relevant to the question asked and are short. In that way there is no reason why this Parliament should not, in the 45 minutes of question time, average more than 20 questions.  Mr Speaker,  a very important duty for you to fulfil is to see that the Government is not allowed to have Ministers fed with a succession of Dorothy Dix questions so that they can make statements on policy at question time instead of making such statements by leave after question time, thereby giving the Opposition an opportunity to respond. This Parliament will not be able to work until the blow which was delivered to it today has been corrected. 
I have pleasure in welcoming  Mr Berinson  to the office of  Chairman  of Committees. I have known him since he was elected to the Parliament. I knew him by reputation in Perth long before that. I must say that all I know about  Mr Berinson  leads me to believe that he is a man of integrity and certainly a man of capacity. I think that he will perform his duties in a most creditable way. I look forward to cooperation with him, as do all the members of both Opposition Parties. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the current establishment of the Social Welfare Commission. 
What is the function of each position. 
How many of the positions are filled at the present time, and by whom. 
What are the qualifications of the persons occupying the positions classified by the class 7 level. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the present average price of land in Adelaide. 
What decrease has occurred in the average price during each 3 month period in the last 2 years. 
Does the Government, regard an average figure of $5,000 as unacceptably high: ' 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
For what purpose has the Department used management consultant firms in the last 12 months. 
Which firms have been used. 
What was the total cost. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
What is his attitude to the construction of a car parking station in Canberra using public funds. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
Will a car parking station be built in Canberra using public funds; is so when. 
I give notice that at the next sitting I shall move: 
That this House censures the Prime Minister for his consistent and deliberate contempt of the Parliament. 
Motion (by  Mr Whitlam)-  by leave- agreed to: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the Leader of the Opposition moving the motion forthwith. 
I move: 
That this House censures the Prime Minister for his consistent and deliberate contempt of the Parliament. 

 Mr Speaker, this censure motion is the strongest action which the Opposition can take arising out of the disgraceful affair of last Thursday. It is quite appropriate that we should move a censure motion. It is quite appropriate that that censure motion should be carried by this House. This censure motion is a defence of the Parliament itself. It is not political in origin. Its purpose is to maintain the dignity and the capacity to continue of this House. 
The consequences of last Thursday's action cannot be overstated. Last Thursday we saw the willingness of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and his cohorts to impose a ruthless autocracy on this Parliament. This is a disintegrating government and there is nothing which it is not prepared to do in order to cling desperately on to office. The reason for the action that was taken last Thursday is quite apparent to everybody who witnessed it, and most of the people in this House did witness it. The public of Australia has had a full description given to it. What comes out of it most predominantly is the disgraceful conduct of the Prime Minister. What comes out of it is his willingness to search for a squalid abuse of power. That is all it was- a squalid abuse of power by the Prime Minister, supported by those members who sit behind him. It was bully boy tactics at their worst. It was tactics of the most degrading level. 
Last Thursday Parliament was injured very greatly. The Government majority voted to strike down the conventions of this Parliament, and the conventions and practice of this Parliament will be crippled until that is corrected. In a Parliament we have a government and an opposition, and that has been the position for centuries. Throughout those centuries, it is perfectly obvious, the whole practice, the standing orders of the Parliament, have been built upon the right of the public of Australia or any other country that has the Westminster system of parliamentary democracy to hear not only from the Government but also from the Opposition, for the Parliament is quite separate from the Executive. The Executive is drawn from the majority in the Parliament, it is true, but once the members of the Executive come into this Parliament they come in as members of the Parliament, committed to the upholding of the principles of the Parliament. The  Speaker  has control of the House and ought to have control, and I quote from the 16th edition of May's 'Parliamentary Practice' at page 223: 
The  Speaker  of the House of Commons is so essential a piece of machinery that without him the House has no constitutional existence. 
And that does not mean just a person sitting in the chair and given the name of the  Speaker.  It means a  Speaker  who genuinely has the power and the capacity to lead the Parliament into a full discussion of the major national issues of the day that are before it and to examine all the legislation. In our system, therefore, the  Speaker  must have the support of the majority party. Our House is quite unlike the House of Commons where the  Speaker,  once appointed, has by common consent full and lasting authority and is not challenged in his electorate. In our system, throughout the entire period of our constitution, the  Speaker  has been supported without doubt, without hesitation and unqualifiedly by the Government majority. That was an established convention of this Parliament. 
Last Thursday that convention was ripped up and thrown away.  Mr Cameron,  the Minister for Labor and Immigration, said to the then  Speaker, Mr Speaker  Cope: 'I don't' give a damn what you say'. The  Speaker  called on 3 occasions for apology and withdrawal.  Mr Cameron  sat there, and it was perfectly obvious that  Mr 
Cameron was contemplating that withdrawal and apology. The Prime Minister said 'No', answering for him. Poor chap, he cannot speak for himself. The  Speaker  then named the Minister for Labor and Immigration, and the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly),  knowing his duty, knowing the convention, started to move towards the despatch box to move the necessary motion for the suspension of the Minister from the service of the House. And the Prime Minister intervened and said 'No', and prevented that. The  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party had to spring to the Table and move the motion which every thinking member of this Parliament wanted to see moved. Four of the members on the Government side did not vote on that question; they absented themselves from the vote. The Parliament bled while that vote was being taken. Four members were not there. Meanwhile supporters of the Government, acting as they are now acting without any regard for the Parliament, with their raucous noises which only disclose that they have not the slightest sense of concern for the Parliament, sat and watched in shame the actions that were taken. If they did not watch in shame they can only be shameful for the rest of their parliamentary careers that they did not do so. 
No  Speaker  in the future can have confidence that he has the right to take action against the Government side. You come to this Chair,  Mr Speaker,  crippled in your authority. Will you have the courage of your conviction to reprimand, discipline and if necessary name for suspension a supporter of the Government while that convention is broken and has not been corrected? The Whitlam claim to be a parliamentarian has been amputated. No longer can he claim that, until he corrects this situation. Will he doit? 
It is only a matter of a couple of weeks ago that the Prime Minister said on national television: 
When violence is done to an important convention, a well established custom, then violence is done to democracy itself. 
That is what he did last Thursday shamelessly, deliberately and intending this Parliament to be weakened by it, not caring about the Opposition but equally not caring about any member who sits behind him. Quite recklessly uncaring as to whether those men can make their contributions to the Parliament, he deliberately did it. It is not surprising, however, that the Parliament was ashamed to witness this squalid abuse of power. It was degrading bullying tactics and was endorsed by the majority of Labor members of the Parliament. Parliament is the ultimate check on the authority of the Executive and what this man, the Leader of the Government, wants is to have the Executive not checked in any way by the Parliament. He wants the Parliament to become an irrelevancy. He wants to elevate himself into a position of absolute power and it is a direct challenge not merely to the Opposition but to supporters of the Government not in the Executive and, for that matter, a challenge to members of the Executive as to whether they will allow absolute power to be put in that man. The action last Thursday was endorsed by a majority of Labor M.Ps. It was a direct and deliberate threat by the Prime Minister and most Labor members that no  Speaker  could expect to survive in the Chair if he took the action that  Speaker  Cope took. Public concern has been highly aroused as it ought properly be aroused. It is aroused by the Prime Minister's obsession for power. That this is so is expressed in the extracts from newspaper comments in the 'Canberra Times', the 'Sun', the 'Australian Financial Review' and the 'SunHerald'. There are plenty of these then. I seek leave to have incorporated in Hansard extracts from editorial comment over the weekend and on Friday of last week following the affair. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Manufacturing Industry, upon notice: 
In relation to the reference by the Prime Minister at a Press conference on 30 January 1973 to an interdepartmental committee dealing wim adjustment assistance for secondary industry, what is the committee's (a) membership, (b) timetable and (c) charter. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Manufacturing Industry, upon notice: 
What percentage of all contracts awarded by the Department of Manufacturing Industry since 2 December 1 972 have honoured the Government's election pledge to buy Australian. 
What is the value of products purchased in such contracts. 
asked the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, upon notice: 
Has the Government considered providing taxation deductions to encourage firms to introduce fitness programs and to build recreation facilities for their employees as he indicated in May 1973. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
With reference to the answer to question No. 548 (Hansard, 19 September 1974, page 1621) in which the Prime Minister indicated that the form and frequency of exercises in Government Departments in civil defence preparedness are as determined by individual Departments, on what dates in the last 1 8 months have exercises of this nature been conducted in his Department. 
Which officers and employees took part. 
How many officers and employees took part. 
What was the purpose of each of the exercises. 
Does he accept that this is an area where the Australian Government can give a lead to other employers. 
asked the Minister for Defence upon notice: 
Further to his answer to question No. 280 on 10 April 1974 (Hansard, page 1360) what action has been taken to rationalise the Australian aircraft industry. 
When did the departmental/industry working group complete its plan for rationalisation. 
Was that plan considered by the Government during the first half of 1974 as stated in his reply to question No. 280. 
Is the plan being implemented. 
5 ) If not, what is the basis for the action being taken. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
What programs does his Department or statutory authorities under his control administer which enable individual groups or people in the community to apply for grants from the Australian Government for a specific purpose. 
What is the name of each program. 
) What is the purpose of each program. 
What are the conditions surrounding eligibility for a grant under each program. 
When did each program commence. 
What is the legal authority for the existence of each program. 
How is the community informed of the existence of each program, and its entitlement to apply for a grant. 
How many applications for grants under each program have been received in each of the last 3 years or for the period of operation of the program if it has been in operation less than 3 years. 
Who decides which applications for grants should be accepted. 
What percentage of applications for grants under each programhave been successful in each of the last 3 years or in each of the years in which the program has been operating if it has been in operation for less than 3 years. 
What proportion of total funds allocated under each program in each of the last 3 years, or in each year the program has been operating where it has been in operation for less than 3 years, have been allocated to individuals as against groups. 
Are any attempts made to assess the extent to which the widest cross-section of the community is aware of the existence of the program, and the means by which applications can be submitted, if so, what attempts. 
What checks are made once applications are received for each program to determine if the attempts to widen access to the funds have been successful. 
Is he confident that the widest cross-section of the community is aware of the existence of the programs, and is aware of the application process. 
What procedures exist to assess the use to which the grants are being put, and to attempt some accountability for the money granted. 
What is the total amount that has been paid out under each program in each of the last 3 years or in each year of the operation of the program if it has been operating for less than 3 years. 
What is the total amount of money paid out for all such programs administered by his Department or authorities under his control. 
What attempts are made to ensure that the same individual organisations or persons do not receive several grants under different programs which he or other Ministers are responsible for and which, when added together, may be unwarranted. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the name of each publication prepared by his Department for distribution to the public. 
How often is the publication printed. 
Which offices of his Department are responsible for the preparation of each publication. 
What is the purpose of each publication. 
5 ) What is the cost of each edition of the publication. 
How many copies of each edition of the publication are produced. 
How many people receive the publication. 
Is it distributed free of charge. 
If so, to whom and how is it distributed to them. 
10) If not, what is the selling cost of the publication and what are the retail outlets. 
When was the publication first produced. 
Did the Prime Minister make a speech in Brussels on 18 December last- a prepared speech- in which he said that the question of European food imports could not be separated from the wish of European countries to obtain supplies of energy resources? Did he tell European governments that which he stated in that speech? Has he told the Japanese Government that the question of the continuation of energy, particularly coal, supplies from Australia to Japan or to Europe may change if there is not a willingness on the part of those countries to take Australian beef? 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) Who are the members of the Defence Science Board, 
Who appoints the members. 
For what periods are the members appointed. 
When was each of the present members appointed. 
How often does the Board meet. 
What are its terms of reference. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 1 544 which first appeared in the Notice Paper on 1 3 November 1 974. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Can the Minister say what will be the impact of the devaluation of the Australian dollar on Australia's trade with each of its neighbouring countries in the Asian and Pacific areas. 
Can the Minister also say what will be the impact, in each case, on the development and particularly on the employment programs of these countries. 
Has the Government received any response or representations on these matters from these neighbouring or other countries. 
Will the devaluation of the Australian dollar serve to further reduce the real value of Australia's overseas assistance programs to developing nations. 
I ask the Treasurer: What is the Treasury's estimate of the cost of Labor's health scheme? Does that estimate take into account that in other countries in which a similar so-called free health scheme has been adopted the costs in practice have proved to be extremely much more than had been originally estimated? So has the Treasury taken into account that experience of the costs being different from the estimate? Has an estimate been made? If so, by how much will taxes have to be increased in order to finance Labor's health scheme? In these circumstances does the Treasurer share the opinion of the Minister for Social Security that it is a free scheme? 
My question is addressed to the Treasurer who gave me a reply a moment or two ago to the effect that estimates of the cost of the Medibank scheme were contained in the White Paper. That White Paper was published in November 1973. Is it not a fact that the White Paper was based upon an assumption that there would be a 1.35 per cent levy on all individual taxpayers? Is it a fact that that percentage is not now to be levied? Where in the White Paper is the estimate of the cost given? Has there been any revision of the cost since the method of financing is to be changed? I ask the honourable gentleman again: Has the Treasury put a cost estimate on the national health scheme, and how much will be the extra taxation to be levied on individual people to finance this so-called free health scheme? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation, upon notice: 
1 ) How are copies of Ministerial press releases circulated. 
) To whom are they circulated. 
How many copies are circulated in total. 
What is the total annual cost, including salary and administration charges, in producing and distributing Ministerial press releases. 
How many public servants in the Department of Repatriation and Compensation are involved with the distribution of press releases. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) How many public libraries are there in Australia. 
What isthe membershipof each public library in Australia. 
Where are they located. 
Which municipalities do not have a public library. 
In which electorates are these municipalities located. 
When was each public library built. 
What is the ratio of public libraries per head of population in each State. 
What is considered to be the desirable ratio for Australia for each State and Territory. 
What is the average annual running cost of an average suburban public library in Australia. 
What assistance does the Government provide for (a) capital expenditure of public libraries, (b) recurrent expenditure of public libraries and (c) other expenditure. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) What quantity of rolling stock has been (a) built or (b) commissioned for construction since 2 December 1 972. 
Where has the rolling stock been built, and where will it be used. 
In respect of rolling stock still under construction or commissioned for construction, where is it being built, and where will it be used. 
What were the comparative figures for the corresponding preceeding period. 
asked the Minister for Science, upon notice: 
How many women have applied to join Australian expeditions to the Antarctic in each of the last 3 years. 
Who were the women. 
What were their qualifications, and for what positions did they apply. 
What reason was given for any rejections of these applications. 
Does he intend to upgrade conditions and facilities at Australian stations in the Antarctic and at Macquarie Island so that they will be suitable for women who wish to spend the winter in the Antarctic as part of an official expedition; if so, when. 
Is it considered that women can make a contribution to expedition work in the Antarctic or at Macquarie Island. 
If so, why should shortage of ship berths for summer visits restrict women undertaking projects at these places. 
Who decides the composition of the Australian expeditions. 
What are the names of the women who have visited Macquarie Island in summer to undertake short term projects in each of the last 5 years. 
10) What was the nature of each project. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 1694 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 1 3 November 1974. 
asked the Minister for Science, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 1764 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 1 3 November 1 974. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Further to question No. 1664 relating to Indonesian fishermen fishing in Australian waters, what progress has been made on this matter. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to a report prepared by the United Nations' Secretary-General dealing with the question of individual privacy, with particular reference to the impact of computerisation and data collection on individual privacy and rights. 
If so, what action is the Government taking on this report. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
Will he provide a list of all formal committees, councils, etc., that have been established which enable him or officers of his Department to maintain contact with State governments ministers or State government officers. 
When was each body established and by whom. 
What is the (a) composition and (b) function of each body. 
On what occasions has each body met in the last 2 years and for what purpose. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Did the present Minister for Labor and Immigration state on 17 September 1 972, with the authority of the present Prime Minister, that in order to give citizens protection against possible unjust or inaccurate use of ASIO reports a Labor Government would establish an administrative court of appeals to review administrative decisions, decisions made on security grounds, to lay down regulations governing the conduct of members of ASIO and other security organisations and to hear, determine and report to Parliament on the breach of any such regulations. 
If so, what action has been taken to establish the proposed administrative court of appeals. 
If such a decision has not been taken, what action has there been to carry out the reviews as proposed by the present Minister for Labor and Immigration or to lay down the regulations proposed by him. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Did the present Minister for Labor and Immigration say, with the authority of the present Prime Minister, on 17 September 1972, that a Labor Government would adopt the 1970 submission of the "Council of Commonwealth Public Service Organisations to produce an appeal to an Administrative Court of Appeal in order to enforce the public's right to access to official records and documents established under the legislative scheme a Labor Government would implement. 
If so, has this been done; if not, why not. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the present Minister for Labor and Immigration say, with the authority of the present Prime Minister, on 17 September 1972, that a Labor Government would adopt the 1970 submission of the Council of Commonwealth Public Service Organisations to create administrative machinery to officially classify information relating to confidential aspects of international relations, trade secrets, military secrets or such other information the public or private disclosure of which could reasonably be regarded as so contrary to the public interest as to be criminally culpable. 
If so, has this been done; if not, why not. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice:  (1)DidthepresentMinisterforLaborandImmigration  say, with the authority of the present Prime Minister, on 17 September 1972, that a Labor Government would adopt the 1970 submission of the Council of Commonmwealth Public Service Organisations to introduce a legislative scheme entailing provision for public inspection on application of departmental records subject to listed exceptions in defined categories similar to the system enacted in sub-sections 3 (c) and (e) of the U.S. Administrative Procedure Act, and to provide for published identification of departmental policy documents and rulings available for public inspection. 
If so, has this been done; if not, why not. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Did the present Minister for Labor and Immigration say, with the authority of the present Prime Minister, on 17 September 1972, that a Labor Government would adopt the 1970 submission of the Council of Commonwealth Public Service Organisations to provide within the departments an identifiable authority to officially rule, in cases of doubt, whether an officer could release a particular piece of information. 
If so, has this been done; if not, why not. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
1 ) When will the report on ASIO be presented to Parliament. 
) Has he or his predecessor received it; if so, when. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Is he considering the United States Department of Health Education and Welfare Secretary's Advisory Committee Report on Automated Personal Records Systems as a basis for licensing data banks under Government control. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
What is the name of each publication prepared by his Department for distribution to the public. 
How often is the publication printed. 
Which offices of the Department are responsible for the preparation of each publication. 
What is the purpose of each publication. 
What is the cost of each edition of the publication. 
How many copies of each edition of the publication are produced. 
How many people receive the publication. 
Is it distributed free of charge. 
If so, to whom and how is it distributed to them. 
10) If not, what is the selling cost of the publication and what are the retail outlets. 
When was the publication first produced. 
asked the Miniser for Services and Property, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the name of each publication prepared by his Department for distribution to the public. 
How often is the publication printed. 
Which offices of his Department are responsible for the preparation of each publication. 
What is the purpose of each publication. 
) What is the cost of each edition of the publication. 
How many copies of each edition of the publication are produced. 
How many people receive the publication. 
Is it distributed free of charge. 
If so, to whom and how is it distributed to them. 
If not, what is the selling cost of the publication and what are the retail outlets. 
When was the publication first produced. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Has the Government considered the interdepartmental report on freedom of information legislation; if so, when. 
If not, when is it expected that the report will be considered by the Government. 
) Will the report be tabled; if so, when; if not, why not. 
When is it expected that legislation to give effect to the Government's promises on freedom of information will be introduced into Parliament. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
What progress has been made by the Committee of Legal Aid in Australia. 
What liaison is carried out with the Poverty Commission which is also examining under Professor Sackville questions relating to provision of legal aid. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 1321 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 1 6 October 1974. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 1696 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 1 3 November 1974. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
1 ) How many women have been appointed to senior positions in his Department since 2 December 1 972. 
Who are they. 
To what position has each been appointed, and what is the function of the position. 
asked the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, upon notice: 
1 ) How many staff are employed in his Department. 
What are their classifications, divisional status and salary levels. 
How many additional positions are on the establishment but have not yet been filled. 
What are their classifications, divisional status and salary levels. 
For those officers above Class 7 level, what are their backgrounds and past experience. 
How many clerical assistant positions are provided for on the establishment. 
How many of these positions are staffed. 
asked the Minister for Customs and Excise, upon notice: 
Who paid for the printing and distribution costs of a letter dated 22 April 1974 signed Lionel Murphy, Minister for Customs and Excise, and addressed 'Dear Conservationist'. 
Who printed the letter. 
To whom was the letter distributed. 
Who distributed the letter. 
What was the cost of printing and distribution. 
Did the letter state that if the Liberal/Country Party gets into government you can be sure that merciless slaughter for export of our kangaroos will resume; if so, what was the authority for the statement. 
asked the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice: 
For what purpose has the Department used management consultant firms in the last 12 months. 
Which firms have been used. 
3 ) What was the total cost. 
asked the Minister for Customs and Excise, upon notice: 
What programs does his Department or statutory authorities under his control administer which enable individual groups or people in the community to apply for grants from the Australian Government for a specific purpose. 
What is the name of each program. 
) What is the purpose of each program. 
What are the conditions surrounding eligibility for a grant under each program. 
When did each program commence. 
What is the legal authority for the existence of each program. 
How is the community informed of the existence of each program, and its entitlement to apply for a grant. 
How many applications for grants under each program have been received in each of the last 3 years or for the period of operation of the program if it has been in operation less than 3 years. 
Who decides which applications for grants should be accepted. 
What percentage of applications for grants under each program have been successful in each of the last 3 years or in each of the years in which the program has been operating if it has been in operation for less than 3 years. 
What proportion of total funds allocated under each program in each of the last 3 years, or in each year the program has been operating where it has been in operation for less than 3 years, have been allocated to individuals as against groups. 
Are any attempts made to assess the extent to which the widest cross-section of the community is aware of the existence of the program and the means by which applications can be submitted; if so, what attempts. 
What checks are made once applications are received for each program to determine if the attempts to widen access to the funds have been successful. 
Is he confident that the widest cross-section of the community is aware of the existence of the program, and is aware of the application process. 
What procedures exist to assess the use to which the grants are being put, and to attempt some accountability for the money granted. 
What is the total amount that has been paid out under each program in each of the last 3 years or in each year of the operation of the program if it has been operating for less than 3 years. 
What is the total amount of money paid out for all such programs administered by the Department or authorities under his control 
What attempts are made to ensure that the same individual organisations or persons do not receive several grants under different programs which he or other Ministers are responsible for and which, when added together, may be unwarranted. 
asked the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice. 
What programs does his Department or statutory authorities under his control administer which enable individual groups or people in the community to apply for grants from the Australian Government for a specific purpose. 
) What is the name of each program. 
What is the purpose of each program. 
What are the conditions surrounding eligibility for a grant under each program. 
5 ) When did each program commence. 
What is the legal authority for the existence of each program. 
How is the community informed of the existence of each program, and its entitlement to apply for a grant. 
How many applications for grants under each program have been received in each of the last 3 years or for the period of operation of the program if it has been in operation less than 3 years. 
Who decides which applications for grants should be accepted. 
What percentage of applications for grants under each program have been successful in each of the last 3 years or in each of the years in which the program has been operating if it has been in operation for less than 3 years. 
What proportion of total funds allocated under each program in each of the last 3 years, or in each year the program has been operating where it has been in operation for less than 3 years, have been allocated to individuals as against groups. 
Are any attempts made to assess the extent to which the widest cross-section of the community is aware of the existence of the program, and the means by which applications can be submitted; if so, what attempts. 
What checks are made once applications are received for each program to determine if the attempts to widen access to the funds have been successful. 
Is he confident that the widest cross-section of the community is aware of the existence of the programs, and is aware of the application process. 
What procedures exist to assess the use to which the grants are being put, and to attempt some accountability for the money granted. 
What is the total amount that has been paid out under each program in each of the last 3 years or in each year of the operation of the program if it has been operating for less than 3 years. 
What is the total amount of money paid out for all such programs administered by his Department or authorities under his control. 
What attempts are made to ensure that the same individual organisations or persons do not receive several grants under different programs which he or other Ministers are responsible for and which, when added together, may be unwarranted. 
asked the Minister for Science, upon notice: 
What programs does his Department or statutory authorities under his control administer which enable individual groups or people in the community to apply for grants from the Australian Government for a specific purpose. 
What is the name of each program. 
What is the purpose of each program. 
What are the conditions surrounding eligibility for a grant under each program. 
5 ) When did each program commence. 
What is the legal authority for the existence of each program. 
How is the community informed of the existence of each program and its entitlement to apply for a grant. 
How many applications for grants under each program have been received in each of the last 3 years or for the period of operation of the program if it has been in operation less than 3 years. 
Who decides which applications for grants should be accepted. 
What percentage of applications for grants under each program have been successful in each of the last 3 years or in each of the years in which the program has been operating if it has been in operation for less than 3 years. 
What proportion of total funds allocated under each program in each of the last 3 years, or in each year the program has been operating where it has been in operation for less than 3 years, have been allocated to individuals as against groups. 
Are any attempts made to assess the extent to which the widest cross-section of the community is aware of the existence of the program, and the means by which applications can be submitted; if so, what attempts. 
What checks are made once applications are received for each program to determine if the attempts to widen access to the funds have been successful. 
Is he confident that the widest cross-section of the community is aware of the existence of the programs, and is aware of the application process. 
What procedures exist to assess the use to which the grants are being put, and to attempt some accountability for the money granted. 
What is the total amount that has been paid out under each program in each of the last 3 years or in each year of the operation of the program if it has been operating for less than 3 years. 
What is the total amount of money paid out for all such programs administered by his Department or authorities under his control. 
What attempts are made to ensure that the same individual organisations or persons do not receive several grants under different programs which he or other Ministers are responsible for and which, when added together, may be unwarranted. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1) Do the provisions of capital funds or other funds or grants schemes enable a non-Aboriginal spouse of an Aboriginal to receive money. 
) If so, under what conditions is approval given. 
How many such approvals have been given in each of the last 5 years. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 283 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 1 6 July 1 974. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 867 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 2 August 1 974. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 1137 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 26 September 1 974. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 1579 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 1 3 November 1 974. 
asked the Minister for Science, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 1762 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 13 November 1974. 
asked the Special Minister of State and Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Matters Relating to the Public Service, upon notice: 
1 ) Further to question No. 1 320 concerning the operation of MANDATA, has the consultative group representing staff been established; if so, what is its composition. 
What are the accepted principles which ensure the rights to individual privacy are preserved. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What works of art have been purchased by the Government since 2 December 1 972. 
From whom were they bought and for what price. 
What is the name, nationality and age of each of the artists whose works have been purchased. 
What are the corresponding details for the equivalent period prior to 2 December 1972. 
What percentage of purchases by the National Gallery Acquisitions Committee has been of Australian works of art in each of the last 5 years. 
What percentage of the total money expended in acquiring works of art has gone towards Australian works of art in each of the last 5 years. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to an organisation or a group of countries which have held a meeting known as the Terrorist International'. 
If so, can he say how many meetings have been held by the 'Terrorist International', and where, and when, they were held. 
What countries or organisations were represented in each case. 
What is the contribution and purpose of the organisation. 
Does it have accredited representatives; if so, where. 
Has the Australian Government had any contact with this organisation or its representatives. 
If so, where and when, and what was the reason for the meeting and the outcome in each case. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
With reference to his reply to question No. 869 (Hansard, 24 September 1974, page 1764) what are the research and development projects in which the 5,700 employees referred to are engaged: 
a ) at Salisbury- Woomera, 
at Melbourne, 
at Canberra, 
at Sydney, 
at Innisfail, and 
overseas. 
How many employees are engaged on each such project. 
) Are any employees engaged on projects outside the six areas listed; if so, where, and on what projects. 
Is the total annual cost of the conduct of these projects $61m. 
If so, what part of this $61m goes to salaries and other payments to the 5,700 employees. 
What are the major divisions of expenditure for the remainder of the $6 1 m. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to a device that has been developed at Queens University, Ontario, called the Eye Movement Control Communication Aid, which provides highly motivated individuals who are severely handicapped with a means of rapid communication with a computer via a remote control. 
Has his attention also been drawn to other electronic aids that have been developed by the medical engineering unit at Queens University. 
If so, will he undertake to examine these aids to see whether they are applicable to the Australian situation. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 1550 which first appeared on the Notice Paper 1 3 Nov. 1 974. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 1239 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 3 October 1974. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 1242 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 3 October 1974. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 1721 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 1 3 November 1974. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 1230 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 3 October 1 974. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Has there been any progress in the Government's consideration of the possibility of amalgamating the Bureau of Roads and the Bureau of Transport Economics. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) What was the total allocation of funds for Aboriginal Affairs in 1973-74. 
How much of this allocation remained unspent at the end of 1973-74. 
What was the reason for this amount remaining unspent. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What programs does his Department or statutory authorities under his control administer which enable individual groups or people in the community to apply for grants from the Australian Government for a specific purpose. 
) What is the name of each program. 
3 ) What is the purpose of each program. 
What are the conditions surrounding eligibility for a grant under each program. 
When did each program commence. 
What is the legal authority for the existence of each program. 
How is the community informed of the existence of each program, and its entitlement to apply for a grant. 
How many applications for grants under each program have been received in each of the last 3 years or for the period of operation of the program if it has been in operation less than 3 years. 
Who decides which applications for grants should be accepted. 
What percentage of applications for grants under each program have been successful in each of the last 3 years or in each of the years in which the program has been operating if it has been in operation for less than 3 years. 
What proportion of total funds allocated under each program in each of the last 3 years, or in each year the program has been operating where it has been in operation for less than 3 years, have been allocated to individuals as against goups 
Are any attempts made to assess the extent to which the widest cross-section of the community is aware of the existence of the program, and the means by which applications can be submitted; if so, what attempts. 
What checks are made once applications are received for each program to determine if the attempts to widen access to the funds have been successful. 
Is he confident that the widest cross-section of the community is aware of the existence of the programs, and is aware of the application process. 
What procedures exist to assess the use to which the grants are being put, and to attempt some accountability for the money granted. 
What is the total amount that has been paid out under each program in each of the last 3 years or in each year of the operation of the program if it has been operating for less than 3 years. 
What is the total amount of money paid out for all such programs administered by his Department or authorities under his control. 
What attempts are made to ensure that the same individual organisations or persons do not receive several grants under different programs which he or other Ministers are responsible for and which, when added together, may be unwarranted. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Will the Minister provide a list of all grants, to any organisation or individual, that are provided from moneys appropriated to his Department, or authorities under his control, to undertake research. 
To what bodies have such moneys been advanced, and what was or is the nature of the research being undertaken as a result of the grants in each of the last 3 years. 
asked the Attorney-General,  upon notice: 
What programs does his Department or statutory authorities under his control administer which enable individual groups or people in the community to apply for grants from the Australian Government for a specific purpose. 
What is the name of each program. 
What is the purpose of each program. 
What are the conditions surrounding eligibility for a grant under each program. 
5 ) When did each program commence. 
What is the legal authority for the existence of each program. 
How is the community informed of the existence of each program, and its entitlement to apply for a grant. 
How many applications for grants under each program have been received in each of the last 3 years or for the period of operation of the programs if it has been in operation less than 3 years. 
Who decides which applications for grants should be accepted. 
What percentage of applications for grants under each program have been successful in each of the last 3 years or in each of the years in which the program has been operating if it has been in operation for less than 3 years. 
What proportion of total funds allocated under each program in each of the last 3 years, or in each year the program has been operating where it has been in operation for less than 3 years, have been allocated to individuals as against groups. 
Are any attempts made to assess the extent to which the widest cross-section of the community is aware of the existence of the program, and the means by which applications can be submitted: if so, what attempts. 
What checks are made once applications are received for each program to determine if the attempts to widen access to the funds have been successful. 
Is he confident that the widest cross-section of the community is aware of the existence of the programs, and is aware of the application process. 
What procedures exist to assess the use to which the grants are being put, and to attempt some accountability for the money granted. 
What is the total amount that has been paid out under each program in each of the last 3 years or in each year of the operation of the program if it has been operating for less than 3 years. 
What is the total amount of money paid out for all such programs administered by his Department or authorities under his control. 
What attempts are made to ensure that the same individual organisations or persons do not receive several grants under different programs which he or other Ministers are responsible for and which, when added together, may be unwarranted. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
1 ) Will he provide a list of all grants, to any organisation or individual, that are provided from moneys appropriated to his Department, or Authorities under his control, to undertake research. 
To what bodies have such moneys been advanced, and what was or is the nature of the research being undertaken as a result of the grants in each of the last three years. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
Will he provide a list of the interdepartmental committees, which have been established since 2 December 1972, of which officers of his Department are members. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
Which Government Departments are involved in the consideration of the development of 18 acres of land in the Belmont Shire in Western Australia. 
Is there an interdepartmental committee considering this matter. 
If so, what is its timetable, charter and terms of reference. 
On what dates and in what locations have discussions taken place with (a) the Western Australian Government and (b) the local government concerned. 
When does he expect that consideration will be finalised. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
Has the Minister received a recommendation, resulting from a conference of Victorian teachers, that a ban be placed on all forms of drug, cigarette and alcohol advertising. 
If so, what is the Minister's attitude to the recommendation. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
With reference to the answer to question No. 548 (Hansard, 19 September 1974), page 1621) in which the Prime Minister indicated that the form and frequency of exercises in Government Departments in civil defence preparedness are as determined by individual Departments, on what dates in the last 18 months have exercises of this nature been conducted in his Department. 
2 ) Which officers and employees took part. 
How many officers and employees took part. 
What was the purpose of each of the exercises. 
Does he accept that this is an area where the Australian Government can give a lead to other employers. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
1 ) How are copies of Ministerial press releases circulated. 
To whom are they circulated. 
How many copies are circulated in total. 
/ 
What is the total annual cost, including salary and , administration charges, in producing and distributing Ministerial press releases. 
How many public servants in the Department of the Media are involved with the distribution of press releases. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
1 ) How many journalists did the Australian Broadcasting Commission employ on 2 December 1 972. 
How many does it employ at the present time. 
What is the total wages and salary bill for these journalists. 
How many journalists were employed in the information service of the former Department of the Interior on 2 December 1972. 
How many journalists are employed in the Australian Information Service at the present time. 
How many journalists were employed in the Department of the Media when it was first created. 
How many journalists are employed in the Department of the Media at the present time. 
What is the percentage increase in the number or journalists employed in the Department of the Media over that period. 
What is the annual wages and salary bill for the journalists presently employed in the Department of the Media. 
What percentage increase does this represent over the wages and salary bill for journalists employed in the Department of the Media when it was first created. 
asked the Special Minister of State, upon notice: 
What action has the Government taken to date on the report submitted to the former Minister on 28 September 1973 by W. K. Lambe concerning the development of the National Archives. 
asked the Special Minister of State, upon notice: 
1 ) Has a director-general for archives been appointed. 
Has any offer for this job been withdrawn or any recommendation for the post been likewise withdrawn; if so, why, and what are the details. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Which community broadcasting groups and persons did the Priorities Review Staff consult in the preparation of its report on the expansion of radio services in Australia. 
When were they consulted. 
What form did the consultations take. 
asked the Minister for the Environment and Conservation, upon notice: 
1 ) Further to question No. 37, who are the current staff members of the Bureau of Environmental Studies, and what qualifications and past experience does each person have. 
Will he provide a list of all research projects that have been completed or are currently being undertaken by the Bureau. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 380 which Him appeared on the Notice Paper on 16 July 1 974. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
1 ) Will he provide a list of all formal committees, councils, etc., that have been established which enable him or officers of his Department to maintain contact with State Government Ministers or State Government officers. 
) When was each body established and by whom. 
What is the (a) composition and (b) function of each body. 
On what occasions has each body met in the last two years and for what purpose. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
Following his answer to question No. 1074 of 15 October 1973 and in the light of the Prime Minister's guarantee in the House on 7 November 1973 that the information will be made available, will he provide a list of the interdepartmental committees established since 2 December 1972 of which officers of his Department are members. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 768 which  first  appeared on the Notice Paper on 3 1 July 1 974. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 877 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 2 August 1 974. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 895 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 2 August 1 94. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 1647 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 1 3 November 1 974. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 806 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 3 1 July 1 974. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 767 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 3 1 July 1 974. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
) What is the name of each publication prepared by his Department for distribution to the public. 
How often is the publication printed. 
Which offices of his Department are responsible for the preparation of each publication. 
What is the purpose of each publication. 
5 ) What is the cost of each edition of the publication. 
How many copies of each edition of the publication are produced. 
How many people receive the publication. 
Is it distributed free of charge. 
If so, to whom and how is it distributed to them. 
10) If not, what is the selling cost of the publication and what are the retail outlets. 
When was the publication first produced. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
What is the best reference source which details the Government's policy on decentralisation. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
1 ) With reference to the answer to question No. 247. what are the terms of reference of the Joint Transport Studies inter-departmental committees on inter and intra regional freight and passenger flows. 
Is this a standing inter-departmental committee. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
1 ) With reference to the answer to question No. 248 concerning the preservation of the Camden Park Estates, what action has taken place since 3 1 January 1974 and since the receipt of the confidential letter from the  chairman  of the Committee of Inquiry on the National Estate. 
What discussions has he had with the New South Wales Government on this matter. 
Does he wish to see the Camden Park Estate preserved. 
Is he confident the Estates will be preserved. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
1 ) Can he say what was the total revenue of local authorities in each State in each of the last five years. 
If so, what percentage of this revenue was made up of (a) rate, (b) licences, (c) State Government grants, (d) State Government loans, (e) Australian Gvernment grants,  (0  Australian Government loans, (g) property income, (h) sanitation charges and (i) other charges. 
What was the administration costs of local authorities in each State as a percentage of their income. 
What was the percentage paid on debt service, i.e. interest and repayment of loans, as a percentage of total income. 
What was the percentage spent on work and services as a percentage of total income. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
1 ) Has he yet sought discussions with the Minister for the Capital Territory, the Minister for Manufacturing Industry and leaders of trade unions to discuss the growing demand for all-day parking space in Canberra. 
If so, have the discussions taken place, and what was the outcome. 
If not, when will the discussions take place. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it a fact that he intends to discourage all-day parking by public servants in Canberra. 
Does he intend doing this by introducing meters in car parks provided for public servants. 
If not, what other measures does he have in mind. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
What programs does his Department or statutory authorities under his control administer which enable individual groups or people in the community to apply for grants from the Australian Government for a specific purpose. 
What is the name of each program. 
) What is the purpose of each program. 
What are the conditions surrounding eligibility for a grant under each program. 
When did each program commence. 
What is the legal authority for the existence of each program. 
How is the community informed of the existence of each program, and its entitlement to apply for a grant. 
How many applications for grants under each program have been received in each of the last three years or for the period of operation of the program if it has been in operation less than three years. 
Who decides which applications for grants should be accepted. 
What percentage of applications for grants under each program have been successful in each of the last three years or in each of the years in which the program has been operating if it has been in operation for less than three years. 
What proportion of total funds allocated under each program in each of the last three years, or in each year the program has been operating where it has been in operation for less than three years, have been allocated to individuals as against groups. 
Are any attempts made to assess the extent to which the widest cross-section of the community is aware of the existence of the program, and the means by which applications can be submitted; if so, what attempts. 
What checks are made once applications are received for each program to determine if the attempts to widen access to the funds have been successful. 
Is he confident that the widest cross-section of the community is aware of the existence of the program, and is aware of the application process. 
What procedures exist to assess the use to which the grants are being put, and to attempt some accountability for the moneys granted. 
What is the total amount that has been paid out under each program in each of the last three years or in each year of the operation of the program if it has been operating for less than three years. 
What is the total amount of money paid out for all such programs administered by his Department or authorities under his control. 
What attempts are made to ensure that the same individual organizations or persons do not receive several grants under different programs which he or other Ministers are responsible for and which, when added together, may be unwarranted. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
When will the Minister answer my question No. 1229 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 3 October 1 974? 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 249 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 16 July 1974? 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 378 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 16 July 1 974? 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 101 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 1 0 July 1974? 
asked the Minister for Police and' Customs, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 556 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 24 July 1974. 
asked the Minister for Police and Customs, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 1548 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 1 3 November 1 974. 
asked the Minister for Science, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 1570 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 1 3 November 1 974. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
How many officers or employees of his Department or of authorities under his control are employed on research and development work. 
Where are they employed. 
What is the nature of the work being undertaken. 
What is the total expenditure per annum in maintaining this research and development program. 
Who decides the nature of the programs or projects included in this research and development. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 1698 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 1 3 November 1 974. 
-This debate draws together four Bills- two Appropriation Bills and two Supply Bills. It is a very significant and important debate for the economic wellbeing of the country. The Appropriation Bills will authorise increased expenditure by way of additional estimates for this financial year. They tell their own story of the economy and Government policy. As such, they are not mere mechanical Bills. The Supply Bills authorise expenditure of money next financial year- that is, as from 1 July 1975- on the basis of expenditure in the past year plus increases in wages since 1 April 1975. The amount of the expenditure is limited to 30 November 1975. The Bills give legislative approval to the Government's fiscal policies, they do not give legislative approval to the Government's monetary policies; but for economic management fiscal and monetary policies are not separable in the ultimate result. These policies and the Government's other associated economic policies are of vital significance for every citizen in this country. 
In the first 9 months of 1974-75 the Government spent $3,300m more than it received in revenue. For the financial year ending 30 June 1975 it is expected that the deficit will be between $2.2 billion and $2.5 billion. The Government has expanded expenditure by more than 40 per cent over last year. Compare this increase with 1972-73 when the increase in Government expenditure was 12 per cent and in 1973-74 when there was an increase of 20 per cent. This financial year there will be an increase in Government spending of 40 per cent. This shortfall of money- that is, expenditure will exceed revenue- is a debt; it is a deficit and it is being financed by creating Treasury notes and printing money. The debt is paid by everybody. Let nobody suppose that the debt is just created and that it somehow wafts away. It is paid by everybody. The value of money now held falls. The relative value of most assets falls. It is true that some people can look at an asset and say that it has increased in value, but if they realise it and try to buy a comparable asset they will find that the price has risen and there has been a relative fall in their assets. Most people suffer. 
During this period average weekly earnings have exceeded price increases and therefore there has not been an awareness among the general public of the evils of the inflation we are suffering, but this will change. The Minister for Overseas Trade  (Mr Crean)  made this point a short while ago: Profits have declined while wages have taken a bigger share. He recognises that this must change for the private sector to be restored to full activity. When that happens prices will rise higher than average weekly earnings have risen and that is when the people of Australia really will understand the evils of inflation. 
The money supply since October last year has grown at an annual rate approaching 25 per cent. This is the reverse of a credit squeeze. It is stuffing money into an economy unable to use it. This followed the economic madness of the credit squeeze of the preceding 13 months. During that mad period the money supply actually was reduced while costs were rising at more than 20 per cent a year. The last 2 years can only be called the mad era. Now the national task is to prevent our moving into a sadistic era. The two most serious problems are inflation and unemployment. Other problems such as lack of growth m the economy, poor productivity and little investment are mere consequences. The Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  has shown that he believes there is some trade-off between inflation and unemployment. How wrong he is. Experience shows that as inflation has increased in Western economies unemployment has increased. Britain, the United States of America and West Germany are only 3 examples of that. 
The Treasurer, by ignoring inflation in his attempt to tackle unemployment, actually is building a worse unemployment crisis in 1976. The present excessive growth of money will affect the economy not this month but late in 1975 and in 1976. This is because of the lag effect. The credit squeeze was most intense in the June quarter of 1974 but maximum impact on employment was not until January, February and March of this year. The Treasurer said that deficit budgeting financed by money creation would end only when unemployment eases, but we have the crisis of greater unemployment facing us in 1976. By the time he accomplishes that it will be too late to prevent the resulting inflation and the subsequent recession that will come again. The longer the Government delays, the more severe the pain, and the more difficult and drawn out will be the cure. My great fear is that in 1976 we will look back to 1975 and say that 1975 was not so bad. If we get to that point we will have failed as a nation and the Government will have failed the people of the nation. 
There are 4 ways to bring monetary growth to manageable levels. I shall set them out. The first is to reduce the deficit by raising taxes; that is to increase costs and prices and destroy incentive. Everybody in this country knows how much taxes have risen and how destructive that course of action would be, so I dismiss it. Secondly, to bring about manageable levels of monetary growth, we could finance the deficit by borrowing, but if we did that we would push up interest rates and impose a liquidity drain on the private sector- the sector which is presently suffering so much and where the unemployment exists. Without any ill will to any public servant, for I admire the job he does, I ask this question: When did yon last meet a retrenched public servant? The unemployment is in the private sector, and it is the private sector that must recover. So I dismiss that course of action. The third course of action is to run up a large balance of payments deficit by revaluing the currency. That would further cripple domestic industry with a flood of imports and create even more unemployment. For that reason I dismiss that course. 
That brings us to the fourth course, and that is to reduce the deficit by cutting the rate of growth of Government spending. It is only this fourth choice which is acceptable in Australia today. Any of the other three would destroy the basic economy. I accept this fourth course unequivocally and unqualifiedly, and I urge the Government to do so. Most importantly, the people of Australia must understand it and accept it. As a matter of national purpose every member of this House and of the Senate must argue for this restraint in Government spending. The expenditure economies must be right across the board. We have heard talk of inflation in Australia being imported and of the position here being no different from that in other countries. That has all been discredited. There is only one single strand that runs common to the inflation of all the Western countries and that is that governments are meeting popular demands and expectations beyond the capacity of the economy to pay. The Governments do this in order to retain office or to gain office. Until governments have the courage to say: 'The expectation is beyond capacity; we will not do it', we will continue to have irresponsible governments and the common strand will continue to run. 
Let me make this absolutely clear. The cuts I have spoken of include the big spending but political sensitive areas of education, health, urban and regional development, and social security. I would exclude only pensions from the economies. Every Minister should be instructed by the Government to cut his budget, even to cut his hopes, and to set his priorities for spending. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  should say to the people of Australia: 'This program will be deferred in the national interest'. He should name the series of programs to be deferred. As I have put it, as the Prime Minister and the Leader of this nation he should say: 'This program will be deferred in the national interest; we will undertake it when we can afford to pay for it'. No community can have more than that community can itself build and pay for. Until we have that clearly in our minds and act according to it we will continue to put in jeopardy those people in this country least able to withstand the effects and harm of inflation. I for one am not prepared to be silent when I see that great range of people who have spent their working life paying into superannuation funds expecting to maintain their standard of living in retirement only to find that their standard of living falls away from them and their years of work are as of nothing. Action should be taken now. It is clear that the 1975-76 Budget will be crucial to turning the corner. I deliberately use the term 'turning the corner' because we are in so deep in an economic morass that one Budget cannot cure it. But the next Budget must set the right direction. It must commence the fight for economic sanity. 
The Government has built up expectations in many expenditure areas- health schemes, national compensation, urban development, national superannuation and so on. But it has shown no ability to resist the interest groups and the pressure that interest groups can bring to bear at the expense of the taxpayer. I believe that the Government must now, at this initial planning stage of the 1975-76 Budget, determine a rigid expenditure ceiling. The private sector must be allowed to recover. Taxes must be further cut. I believe, therefore, that there will be little scope for any real increase in Government spending next year. 
Assuming a 15 per cent inflation rate for the year as a whole- that is from 1 January 1975 to 30 June 1976- on the basis of the policy changes which I am now recommending, I believe that Commonwealth Government spending will have to be limited to a 15 per cent increase in the next Budget. This will allow a significant tax cut and a responsible result in terms of the deficit. In relation to tax, let me remind the House that in the 1972-73 financial year- not yet 2 years agorevenue was $9,5 1 8m. By the end of 30 June this year- 2 years later- it is expected to be $ 15,000m, notwithstanding the tax cuts which the Government introduced after very strong arguments for that course of action which I am proud to say I initiated. Personal tax in 1972-73 amounted to $4,089m. For this year it will be nearly $8,000m. What will it be in 1975-76 unless we have more tax cuts? Where will incentive for people be if they work overtime or get a promotion and the .increased payment is absorbed by increased tax payments? 
Ideally the process should begin immediately. I believe that monetary growth should be cut immediately to 15 per cent and subsequently brought down to around 10 per cent annual growth. Combined with more responsible action to contain wages, as set out in the Opposition's economic policy published in February last, these measures would eventually bring down inflation. But no one can pretend that bringing down inflation is going to be a quick and easy course. It will be neither quick nor will it be easy and it will require courage from government and courage from the Australian people in accepting it, for they know that if they accept it, it will build their future but if they do not accept it it will lead only to the downturn of the very political and economic institutions of this country. 
With inflation reduced and a more stable environment for economic decision making restored there could be a return to genuine full employment. The proposals which the Opposition has put forward for a flexible exchange rate would enable these results to be achieved in Australia whatever were the conditions in the rest of the world. That we must do. It is no point arguing that our inflation is caused by other countries. We have the power, the wit and the wisdom to take the necessary action so that we can advance in Australia and not be subject to the sheer economic chance of the actions of other countries. 
The experience of the last 2 years and the Treasurer's statements of this week indicate that the policies needed to restore economic stability in Australia are not likely. The Government must change its policies. It must not be caught up in ideology, in outdated economics, in foolish personal pride or in internal competition for influence and power within the Government and the Cabinet. The Treasurer, who was until recently the Minister for Overseas Trade, in commencing this debate said that the Opposition was trying to argue that deficits are bad and that surpluses are good. We do not argue that. It is perfectly clear that fiscal policies must be set and supplemented by monetary policies. If the state of the economy requires fiscal expansion, deficits are good; if the state of the economy requires restraint, deficits are bad. When deficits rise to the proportions they are in Australia today simply because of a lack of understanding or a lack of will on the part of the Government, the Government is doing an essential harm to this country which can take years, and perhaps even decades, to recover from. So the responsibility of the Government is just not measured in terms of today or next month. The responsibility is measured for the rest of this decade as a certainty and probably into the next decade. 
I believe that this country needs the return of a Liberal-Country Party government at the next election. I do not want the country to be ruined while we wait for that election. For those reasons I implore the Government to change its policies. There is no need for this situation. The Government should make it clear to the Australian people that it is activated and motivated by their interests and from responsibility in government so that when the next election comes, which I will do all in my power to see we win, we will not be haggling over the carcass of an economy which has been stripped of its muscle and flesh. What we will be doing is arguing a debate on the electoral hustings about which party will better be able to serve the interests of the Australian people and make our economy as great as it ought to be. 
No country has a right to greater expectations than Australia. The resources that we have under and on the ground combined with the people we have confirms that view. But there is no other country of the Western world or member country of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development which at present would have greater fears as to the realisation of those expectations. The time has come for the Government to take the appropriate actions and not be buffetted by ideology or lack of will to resist pressure groups which are interested only in the expenditure of money to satisfy their particular wants without regard to the capacity of the community to pay and of the economy to deliver up that money without lasting and permanent damage. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the present Minister for Labor and Immigration say, with the authority of the present Prime Minister, on 17 September 1972, that a Labor Government would adopt the 1970 submission of the Council of Commonwealth Public Service Organisations to amend section 70 of the Crimes Act to render it a criminal offence to disclose classified information about the Service or business of the Service. 
If so, has this been done; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for Defence,  upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 1240 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 3 October 1974. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
How many patrol boats will be provided from the Third Australian Patrol Boat Squadron in order to institute increased coastal fishing surveillance. 
In what areas will they operate. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Did he receive a telegram from members of the Help Estonian, Latvian and Lithuanian Peoples Association (HELLP) following a public meeting in Hobart on 5 December 1974. 
If so, did the telegram ask him to inquire about the fate of 5 Lithuanians imprisoned in the Soviet Union. 
Did the telegram also ask him to seek the immediate restoration of civil liberties in the 3 Baltic States. 
What action did he take on these requests. 
On what date did he reply to the telegram from HELLP. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) How are copies of Ministerial press releases circulated. 
To whom are they circulated. 
) How many copies are circulated in total. 
What is the total annual cost, including salary and administration charges, in producing and distributing Ministerial press releases. 
How many public servants in his Department are involved with the distribution of press releases. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 1553 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 13 November 1974. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
With reference to his answer to my question No. 433, is it a fact that the Commonwealth Brickworks will confine the sale of its products to the Canberra district, and not attempt to extend its sales to Albury-Wodonga. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
When will the Minister answer my question No. 759 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 31 July 1974. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
When will the Minister answer my question No. 1638 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 13 November 1974. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
When will the Minister answer my question No. 1709 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 13 November 1974. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
When will the Minister answer my question No. 1710 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 13 November 1974. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
When will the Minister answer my question No. 1711 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 13 November 1974. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
Further to question No. 1586 concerning publications prepared by Government departments for distribution to the public, is it a function of the Department of the Media to generally review and co-ordinate the adequacy of public information booklets; if so, is it appropriate that the information sought in parts ( 5 ) to ( 9 ) of the question should be available to the Minister in order that the function can be adequately performed. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) Further to question No. 1 924, what is the regional and district office decentralisation program, and what is its cost. 
Has he consulted with the Minister for Transport concerning the fact that road conditions in some of the remote areas in Western Australia may limit the proposal to use a caravan as a mobile office for use by officers of his Department 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 293 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 1 6 July 1974. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Did he promise in his 1972 policy speech that the Government would embark on a 5 year program to provide free dental services to all Australian school children. 
If so, did that mean that the Government intended to provide free dental services to all Australian school children by 1 978; if not, what was the intention of this promise. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) What are the details of the way in which the sum of $3 million to assist destitute students at universities and colleges of advanced education has been allocated. 
In particular, (a) what definitions have been used by universities and colleges of advanced education to categorise a student as destitute, (b) what sum has each body dispersed and what amounts have been by way of grant or loan, (c) where loans have been given, what are the terms and (d) how many students have been assisted by the scheme. 
asked the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, upon notice: 
Does his Department maintain a record of interdepartmental committees in which it participates. 
If not, then how is he aware of all the interdepartmental consultations in which his Department is involved through inter-departmental committees. 
Will he ensure that such a list is in future available to him. 
asked the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, upon notice: 
Will he provide a list of the inter-departmental committees, which have been established since 2 December 1 972, of which officers of his Department are members. 
asked the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, upon notice: 
With reference to the answer to question No.548 (Hansard, 19 September 1974, page 1621) in which the Prime Minister indicated that the form and frequency of exercises in Government Departments in civil defence preparedness are as determined by individual Departments, on what dates in the last 18 months have exercises of this nature been conducted in his Department. 
Which officers and employees took pan. 
How many officers and employees took part. 
What was the purpose of each of the exercises. 
Does he accept that this is an area where the Australian Government can give a lead to other employers. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) How many graduates completed courses of study, indicating the category, at each tertiary institution in each of the last 5 years? 
What is the expected output of science graduates in each discipline from each tertiary institution in each of the next5 years? 
What is considered a desirable level of output in each of the next 5 years to meet the future needs of Australia? 
How will any short-fall predicted be overcome? 
What steps will be taken to overcome any predicted short-fall in science manpowers? 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the exact nature of the task forces of volunteer staff that are being organised to go to problem unemployment areas during the day and evening. 
Are these staff permanent public servants. 
On what basis are they employed, and what remuneration are they paid. 
How many members are there in the task forces. 
In what areas are they to be used. 
What is the volunteer nature of their work. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
How many children in each State and Territory are currently awaiting adoption. 
How many of these are Aboriginal children. 
Can he provide a list indicating the number of applications currently pending from people seeking to adopt a child in each State and Territory. 
How many children went to adoptive homes in each State and Territory in each of the last 5 years. 
How many of these were Aboriginal children. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Will the Minister provide a list of all commercial outlets in Australia for Aboriginal artifacts. 
Where are they located. 
Who operates them. 
Who receives the profits from the sale of these artifacts. 
What was the total sales turnover in Aboriginal artifacts in Australia in each of the last 5 years. 
What was the estimated total profit on the sale of Aboriginal artifacts in Australia in each of the last 5 years. 
asked the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 808 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 3 1 July 1 974. 
asked the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 1563 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 1 3 November 1 974. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) Further to question No. 1 700 in which I sought information regarding action that had been taken on the 15-point program for handicapped people, will he advise me, in relation to point 13 and the allocation of Government contracts, (a) what percentage of suitable Government contracts are now awarded to sheltered workshops, (b) what progress has been made in their negotiations, (c) who was involved in the negotiations and (d) what percentage is considered to be acceptable. 
With reference to point 14 and the question of access to buildings by disabled people, will the Government also adopt a policy of altering existing public buildings wherever possible to improve the access and facilities available for disabled people. 
With reference to point IS and the vocational assessment in sheltered workshops, which sheltered workshops have been used for rehabilitation purposes, and how many have been given assistance in this way. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Further to the answer to question No. 236 concerning the Government's examination of land under the control of the Australian Army on Rottnest Island in Western Australia, what is the position regarding the possibility of releasing this land for general community use. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
How much time was made available to broadcast election speeches or political advertisements by each political party in Australia on radio stations 2K.Y, 2HD, 3KZ and 4KQ in each of the last 10 years. 
asked the Minister for Science, upon notice:  . ( 1 ) With reference to his answer to question No. 7 1 7 of 3 1 May 1973 in which he indicated that his Department and the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation undertake activities which bear directly or indirectly on consumer protection, which section or sections of his Department and of the CSIRO are involved in such activities. 
What are these activities. 
How many officers of (a) his Department and (b) the CSIRO are involved in this work. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
Does bis Department maintain a record of interdepartmental committees in which it participates. 
If not, then how is he aware of all the interdepartmental consultations in which his Department is involved through inter-departmental committees. 
Will he ensure that such a list is in future available to him. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
What action did the Minister take in reply to the telegram he received from the Mayor of Townsville seeking discussions on the accommodation problems of Aboriginals in Townsville. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
What programs does his Department or statutory authorities under his control administer which enable individual groups or people in the community to apply for grants from the Australian Government for a specific purpose. 
What is the name of each program. 
What is the purpose of each program. 
What are the conditions surrounding eligibility for a grant under each program. 
When did each program commence. 
What is the legal authority for the existence of each program. 
How is the community informed of the existence of each program, and its entitlement to apply for a grant. 
How many applications for grants under each program have been received in each of the last 3 years or for the period of operation of the program if it has been in operation less than 3 years. 
Who decides which applications for grants should be accepted. 
What percentage of applications for grants under each program have been successful in each of the last 3 years or in each of the years in which the program has been operating if it has been in operation for less than 3 years. 
What proportion of total funds allocated under each program in each of the last 3 years, or in each year the program has been operating where it has been in operation for less than 3 years, have been allocated to individuals as against groups. 
12) Are any attempts made to assess the extent to which the widest cross-section of the community is aware of the existence of the program, and the means by which applications can be submitted; if so, what attempts. 
What checks are made once applications are received for each program to determine if the attempts to widen access to the funds have been successful. 
Is he confident that the widest cross-section of the community is aware of the existence of the programs, and is aware of the application process. 
What procedures exist to assess the use to which the grants are being put, and to attempt some accountability for the money granted. 
What is the total amount that has been paid out under each program in each of the last 3 years or in each year of the operation of the program if it has been operating for less than 3 years. 
What is the total amount of money paid out for all such programs administered by his Department or authorities under his control. 
What attempts are made to ensure that the same individual organisations or persons do not receive several grants under different programs which he or other Ministers are responsible for and which, when added together, may be unwarranted. 
asked the Minister for Science upon notice: 
1 ) How many employees of his Department are involved in consumer protection activities. 
What percentage of all employees of his Department does this represent. 
asked the Special Minister of State and Minister assisting the Prime Minister in matters relating to the Public Service, upon notice: 
Further to question No. 1673, is it the aim of the Government to increase mobility between the Australian Public Service, private industry and State Public Services, particularly mobility in the sense of short term transfers between these areas of employment; if so, what measures have been taken to increase this mobility, and to record the success of efforts to increase the mobility. 
asked the Special Minister of State and Minister assisting the Prime Minister in matters relating to the Public Service, upon notice: 
Further to question No. 1681 concerning the number of positions abolished in Government departments, will he discuss with the  Chairman  of the Public Service Board a revision of the statistics that are recorded so that information along the lines sought by me might be more readily available. 
-This clause is indeed the central part of the Bill and we need to make up our mind on it. We have several alternatives. For my part I bring the alternatives down to two, the proposal in the Bill and the proposal put forward by the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott).  The amendment of the honourable member for Wentworth, in the forms of the House, operates as a proposed amendment to an amendment proposed by the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon).  I think that you,  Mr Chairman,  will be able to clear the way for honourable members to see the 2 proposals as I think they ought to be seen, that is, a choice between the clause as contained in the Bill and the amendment of the honourable member for Wentworth. 
Curiously the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby),  in putting forward the proposal contained in the Bill, argues that it should be supported on the grounds of its proper liberal approach for the relief of people from a marriage which can no longer subsist in any sense of morality as between the 2 parties. The curiosity is, I think, that the proposal in the Bill is less liberal than the proposal made by the honourable member for Wentworth. The reason why this comes about is that whilst I think the majority of honourable members would propose that there should not be fault finding as a ground for dissolution of marriage nevertheless some element of fault must be established when the sole ground of divorce is that the marriage has broken down irretrievably. If it has broken down irretrievably there must be established circumstances, such as perpetual drunkenness, commitment to prison or adultery, which show that to be the fact. An element of fault is involved in that proposition. 
I do not want the process of fault to continue. I should like a single ground but I do not believe that a single ground, as proposed in the Bill, would achieve what the majority of honourable members, I hope, would want to achieve. This can be done only by separating it out as the honourable member for Wentworth has done. He proposes that divorce can be based on the parties living separately and apart and remaining separated for 2 years. Whether the 2 parties have separated and remained apart for 24 months is an objective fact to be shown. If the grounds are shown, a dissolution can be ordered. The honourable member has an additional proposal- that if the parties are irreconcilable and both agree as an objective fact that they have been separated for 12 months the divorce can be granted. 
That brings us to the third part of the proposal of the honourable member for Wentworth, which I think is most important. In paragraph (c) of his amendment lies the allegation of fault. A statement of behaviour is required. An application can be brought forthwith, and in those circumstances it will be necessary to show why it has been brought forthwith, that is, that the behaviour of one of the parties demonstrates that the marriage has irretrievably broken down. The important thing is that there is no need to wait before the application is brought. Can anything be more stupid to put to this House than that a marriage must subsist for 1 year or 2 years in order to prove a separation for 1 year or 2 years? 
It is a piece of absurdity to suggest that if a man or a woman finds, after marriage, that he or she has married a homosexual and there is total incompatibility, the marriage must subsist for 2 years to prove separation for 2 years in order to dissolve it. If a woman has put up with cruel beatings for 5 or 7 years, must the marriage be sustained for another 2 years or one year in order to bring an application for divorce? It is a piece of absurdity beyond belief that this Parliament could impose such a situation upon people when we are trying to resolve issues of great social consequence, not just in the broad social consequence, but as it applies to each individual living in a relationship such as the closeness of marriage. I believe that the proposed amendment of the honourable member for Wentworth should be supported. It will do 2 things: Firstly, it will provide objective fact for divorce, if it is a separation for 24 months, or not less than 12 months with the consent of both parties, and secondly, and most importantly, it will not commit this Parliament to the absurdity of requiring people to live together in intolerable circumstances merely so that they can prove that they have been separated in marriage for 2 years. Let this - 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
When will the Minister answer my question No. 235 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 1 6 July 1974. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) Further to question No. 1 32 1 in which I sought details of the workings of the Social Welfare Commission, in the interests of open Government will he review the answer he gave to that question and provide the information sought. 
In particular, will he provide a much clearer indication of the functions of each of the 30 positions on the Commission, if necessary referring to the duty statements of these positions. 
Will he also indicate, as previously requested, the name of each of the persons filling the positions at the present time. 
Will he also provide details of their qualifications. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What programs does his Department or statutory authorities under his control administer which enable individual groups or people in the community to apply for grants from the Australian Government for a specific purpose. 
What is the name of each program. 
What is the purpose of each program. 
What are the conditions surrounding eligibility for a grant under each program. 
When did each program commence. 
What is the legal authority for the existence of each program. 
How is the community informed of the existence of each program, and its entitlement to apply for a grant. 
How many applications for grants under each program have been received in each of the last 3 years or for the period of operation of program if it has been in operation less than 3 years. 
Who decides which applications for grants should be accepted. 
10) What percentage of applications for grants under each program have been successful in each of the last 3 years or in each of the years in which the program has been operating if it has been in operation for less than 3 years. 
What proportion of total funds allocated under each program in each of the last 3 years, or in each year the program has been operating where it has been in operation for less than 3 years, have been allocated to individuals as against groups. 
Are any attempts made to assess the extent to which the widest cross-section of the community is aware of the existence of the program and the means by which applications can be submitted; if so, what attempts. 
What checks are made once applications are received for each program to determine if the attempts to widen access to the funds have been successful. 
Is he confident that the widest cross-section of the community is aware of the existence of the programs, and is aware of the application process. 
What procedures exist to assess the use to which the grants are being put, and to attempt some accountability for the money granted. 
What is the total amount that has been paid out under each program in each of the last 3 years or in each year of the operation of the program if it has been operating for less than 3 years. 
What is the total amount of money paid out for all such programs administered by his Department or authorities under his control. 
What attempts are made to ensure that the same individual organisations or persons do not receive several grants under different programs which he or other Ministers are responsible for and which, when added together, may be unwarranted. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
1) Further to question No. 1947 concerning the installation of telephones at the Florida Hotel, Terrigal, in the last few months, how many temporary telephone services were installed at the request of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. 
To whom were the telephone services provided. 
Over what period were the services provided. 
What was the total charge for providing the facilities. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 242 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 1 6 July 1974. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 874 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 2 August 1974. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 1334 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 16 October 1 974. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 58 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 10 July 1974. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 86 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 10 July 1974. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 297 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 1 6 July 1 974. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 383 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 1 6 July 1 974. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 1 148 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 26 September 1 974. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 1590 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 1 3 November 1 974. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 1732 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 13 November 1974. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 1734 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 1 3 November 1974. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 1735 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 1 3 November 1 974. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
How many applications has his Department received for awards under the Aboriginal Overseas Award Scheme which enables Australians of Aboriginal or Torres Strait Islander descent to add to their skills and experience by undertaking short-term overseas study. 
What are the names of the Aborigines who have applied and what is the purpose of the application in each case. 
3 ) From which States have the applications come. 
Are people from Baron Island eligible for this Scheme. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 753 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 3 1 July 1 974. 
asked the Attorney-General upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 1576 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 1 3 November 1 974. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 1701 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 1 3 November 1 974. 
asked the Minister for Science, upon notice: 
1 ) Further to question No. 1 76 1 in which I sought information on consumer advice booklets that have been published by the Government, will he provide a list of the outlets to which the 98 000 copies of Buyers' Guide to Colour Television were distributed. 
What has been the success of the sale of booklets. 
asked the Special Minister of State and Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Matters Relating to the Public Service, upon notice: 
1 ) Further to the answer to question No. 764 in which the Minister for Labor and Immigration mentioned the review by the Public Service Board of part-rime employment in the Public Service that has been under way for some considerable time, when will this review be completed. 
Is it the attitude of the Government that permanent status should be given to part-time employees to enable opportunities for part-time employment to be suitably increased, and that this matter is one that requires the earliest possible finalisation. 
asked the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, upon notice: 
1 ) Will he provide a list of all grants given to Australian sporting organisations. 
What was the purpose of each grant. 
What is the criteria against which he decides the amount of money that will be allocated, and the type of organisation to whom moneys will be given. 
asked the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, upon notice: 
1 ) How are copies of Ministerial press releases circulated. 
To whom are they circulated. 
How many copies are circulated in total. 
What is the total annual cost including salary and administration charges, in producing and distributing Ministerial press releases. 
How many public servants in his Department are involved with distribution of press releases. 
asked the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, upon notice: 
Does the Government intend to use public funds to build or buy in interest in holiday centres in Australia. 
What progress has been made in studies being undertaken by his Department into the high cost of accommodation and the consequent effect of restricting families on low incomes from taking a holiday. 
Is there an inter-departmental committee studying this problem. 
asked the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, upon notice: 
Further to the answer to question No. 454 in which he indicated that his Department is studying the situation of families on low incomes and the high cost of accommodation which prevents them from taking a holiday, how many officers of his Department were engaged or are engaged in this study. 
2 ) What are the aims of the study. 
What progress has been made to date. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) Who are the members of the advisory group of Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders which has been appointed to formulate advice to the Schools Commission on education for the people. 
) What are the terms of their appointments. 
3 ) What are the functions of the group. 
asked the Special Minister of State and Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in matters relating to the Public Service, upon notice: 
Further to question No. 1690 concerning the employment of persons on a contract basis, does the Public Service Board intend to issue instructions to departments and statutory authorities advising on methods to be adopted in employing people on contracts; if not, will he discuss with the  Chairman  of the Public Service Board the need for such instructions to be issued. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Further to the answer to question No. 1760 in which his predecessor provided a list of 44 consumer groups with which the Interim Commission on Consumer Standards has had continuous liaison, is this an exhaustive list of consumer groups with whom the Commission has had liaison; if not, how were the groups listed chosen for liaison, and what are the names of the other groups with whom the Commission has liaised. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
Will he provide a list of all colleges of advanced education in Australia indicating: 
their enrolment in each of the last 5 years and 
b ) the expected enrolment in each of the next 5 years. 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
1 ) How many officers or employees of his Department or of authorities under his control are employed on research and development work. 
Where are they employed. 
What is the nature of the work being undertaken. 
What is the total expenditure per annum in maintaining this research and development program. 
Who decides the nature of the programs or projects included in this research and development work. 
asked the Minister for Social Se curity, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 750 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 3 1 July 1974. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 731 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 3 1 July 1 974. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 732 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 3 1 July 1974. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 733 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 3 1 July 1 974. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 735 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 3 1 July 1974. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 736 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 3 1 July 1 974. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 754 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 3 1 July 1 974. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 1547 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 13 November 1974. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 1674 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 1 3 November 1 974. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Further to the answer to question No. 1 672 concerning committees, commissions of inquiry and task forces established by the Government since 2 December 1 972, in which he informed me that he would bring the list up to date at the end of the 1974 Budget sittings, is it a fact that this list did not contain the information sought in my question. 
If so, is he unwilling to provide the information; if so, why; if not, can the information be provided in reply to this question. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. Has there been a drop in private sector employment of 140 000 people? Has there been a drop in private capital investment from 13 per cent of the gross domestic product to 8 per cent of the gross domestic product in the March quarter? Did the Government's submission to the Prices Justification Tribunal inform that Tribunal that lack of company profits leads to this alarming downturn in investment, which in turn produces unemployment? Will the Government bring in legislation giving specific statutory direction to the Prices Justification Tribunal in terms of this part of the Government 's submission and not leave such a nationally significant economic issue at the discretion of the Tribunal on a mere request from the Government? 
asked the Minister for Services and Property, upon notice: 
When will he answer my Question No. 1580 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 13 November 1974. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the maximum pension a Commonwealth public servant can receive on retirement, as a percentage of final salary, under the existing superannuation scheme. 
What is the average level of pension, expressed as a percentage of final salary, received by existing pensioners of the existing scheme. 
What is the average contribution rate of a public servant who joins the service at age 20 and retires at age 60, expressed as a percentage of earnings during his career, under the existing scheme. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Manufacturing Industry, upon notice: 
1 ) When does the Minister expect to be able to announce the Government's proposals for the rationalisation of the Australian Aircraft Industry. 
Is this matter regarded as one requiring the earliest possible finalisation. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Manufacturing Industry, upon notice: 
When did the Minister or his predecessor receive the final report of the committee of inquiry examining additional workload for Government factories. 
When will the Government reach a decision on the report. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Further to the answer to question No. 1658 in which he provided a list of all Departments, other than the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, with some responsibility for Aboriginal affairs, which Departments are represented on the Bilingual Education Consultative Committee, the Aboriginal Community Committee and the Health Care for Aborigines Committee. 
Is it intended that Aborigines will be recruited to the Australian Electoral Office so that the function of informing and educating Aboriginal people of their franchise rights might be more adequately performed. 
3 ) Does the Public Service Board intend to employ Aborigines in the areas of its administration designated as having some responsibility for Aboriginal affairs. 
Does the answer to question No. 1658 indicate that there are more than 3800 public servants, 830 of whom are Aborigines, engaged in Departments, other than the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, which have some direct responsibility for Aboriginal policies. 
What is the National Plan referred to under the Aboriginal Health Branch of the central office of the Department of Health. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
What steps are being taken to develop vandal proof public telephones in Australia. 
Is the Postmaster-General's Department itself involved in research on this matter; if so, what amount is being spent on this research, and who is undertaking it. 
Does the Postmaster-General know of any company investigating the development of vandal proof telephones and booths. 
If so, what companies are involved, and what assistance does the Government provide to these companies. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 216 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 1 6 July 1974. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 38 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 10 July 1974. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) Will he provide a list of all grants, to any organisation or individual, that are provided from moneys appropriated to his Department, or authorities under his control, to undertake research. 
To what bodies have such moneys been advanced and what was or is the nature of the research being undertaken as a result of the grants in each of the last three years. 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
1 ) Will he provide a list of all research projects being undertaken in Australia into the applied use of nuclear energy which are receiving financial support from the Government. 
What proportion does this represent of funds allocated by all sources in Australia to research projects into the applied use of nuclear energy. 
3 ) What is the purpose of each project. 
How many people are involved in each project. 
5 ) Where is the research being undertaken. 
What support is the Government providing for each project, and how is it provided. 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
1 ) Will he provide a list of all research projects being undertaken in Australia into atomic energy which are receiving financial support from the Government. 
What proportion does this represent of funds allocated by all sources in Australia to research projects into the applied use of atomic energy. 
3 ) What is the purpose of each project. 
How many people are involved in each project. 
Where is the research being undertaken. 
What support is the Government providing for each project, and how is it provided. 
asked the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, upon notice: 
How many community centres have been established with the financial support of the Government since 2 December 1972. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) How many officers or employees of this Department or of authorities under his control are employed on research and development work. 
) Where are they employed. 
What is the nature of the work being undertaken. 
What is the total expenditure per annum in maintaining this research and development program. 
Who decides the nature of the programs or projects included in this research and development work. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
Further to the answer to question No. 325 of 16 July 1974 in which the Prime Minister indicated that a submission had been received from the Save the Regent Theatre Committee by the Government on 2 March 1974, has he considered the submission; if so what is his attitude to it. 
If he has not yet formed an attitude, when does he expect to do so. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
With reference to the answer to question No. 548 (Hansard, 19 September '974, page 1621) in which the Prime Minister indicated that the form and frequency of exercises in Government Departments in civil defence preparedness are as determined by individual Departments, on what dates in the last 18 months have exercises of this nature been conducted in his Department. 
Which officers and employees took part. 
3 ) How many officers and employees took part. 
What was the purpose of each of the exercises. 
Does he accept that this is an area where the Australian Government can give a lead to other employers. 
asked the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the name of each publication prepared by his Department for distribution to the public. 
How often is the publication printed. 
Which offices of his Department are responsible for the preparation of each publication. 
What is the purpose of each publication. 
5 ) What is the cost of each edition of the publication. 
How many copies of each edition of the publication are produced. 
How many people receive the publication. 
Is it distributed free of charge. 
If so, to whom and how is it distributed to them. 
10) If not, what is the selling cost of the publication and what are the retail outlets. 
When was the publication first produced. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
With reference to the answer to Question No. 1555 (Hansard, 13 December 1973, page 4857), has the information service of his Department finalised compilation of lists of different types of groups interested in urban and regional development including resident action groups, progress associations, local government associations, academics and developers; if so, will he make a copy available to me. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
With reference to question No. 245 in which I sought information on expenditure by local government authorities on street lighting, could he arrange, as offered, for the five metropolitan area county councils to be contacted so that the information I have sought can be obtained. 
Will he also provide the information I sought previously as it relates to the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. 
asked the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, upon notice: 
1 ) What sports have been subsidised by the Government. 
What sums in total has each sport received by way of subsidy since 2 December 1972. 
What sports have yet to be subsidised. 
How many participants are there in each sport in Australia. 
What are the national associations for each sport in Australia. 
Where are they located. 
What sums have been allocated to sporting teams at Universities and Colleges of Advanced Education and other tertiary institutions since 2 December 1972. 
What sums have been provided for sporting teams at primary and secondary schools. 
What contributions have been made by the Government to assist upgrading of sporting facilities in Australia. 
What are the details of these contributions. 
How many people in Australia have directly benefited through Government subsidies for sport. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 1729 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 13November, 1974. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 306 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 1 6 July 1974. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 1567 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 1 3 November 1 974. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 64 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 10 July1974. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
Further to Question No. 567 concerning the list which has been prepared by his Department of various groups involved in urban and regional development, will he make a copy available to me. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
1 ) How many applications has his Department received from voluntary organisations, local government bodies and individuals seeking financial assistance to protect the National Estate. 
) For what purpose has assistance been sought. 
How many applications have been approved to date, and for what purpose. 
Which voluntary organisations, local government bodies or individuals have received assistance to date. 
Does he intend to publish regular information on the way in which funds under the National Estate Program are being distributed. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 1705 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 13 November 1974. 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 862 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 2 August 1974. 
asked the Minister for Science, upon notice: 
When will be answer my question No. 264 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 16 July, 1974. 
asked the Minister for Science, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 1763 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 1 3 November, 1 974. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
1 ) Further to Question No. 763, which personnel are on the standing interdepartmental committee established to ensure an integrated approach to all matters affecting migrants. 
How many times has the committee met and on what dates. 
Has it prepared any reports; if so will they be made public. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
How many ships have been built in Australia since 2 December 1972. 
Where were they built. 
) What is their tonnage. 
For what purpose have the ships been built, and where are they operating at the present time. 
How many ships are under construction in Australia at the present time. 
What is the tonnage of each. 
Where are they being built. 
Where will the ships operate and for what purpose. 
What are the comparative figures for the corresponding preceding period. 
asked the Minister for Tourism and Recreation the following question, upon notice: 
1) Is there an approved set of guidelines by which his Department examines requests from sporting organisations to attend national and international sporting events. 
If so, will he incorporate a copy in Hansard with this reply. 
asked the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, upon notice: 
What programs does his Department or statutory authorities under his control administer which enable individual groups or people in the community to apply for grants from the Australian Government for a specific purpose. 
What is the name of each program. 
What is the purpose of each program. 
What are the conditions surrounding eligibility for a grant under each program. 
5 ) When did each program commence. 
What is the legal authority for the existence of each program. 
How is the community informed of the existence of each program, and its entitlement to apply for a grant. 
How many applications for grants under each program have been received in each of the last 3 years or for the period of operation of the program if it has been in operation less than 3 years. 
Who decides which applications for grants should be accepted. 
What percentage of applications for grants under each program have been successful in each of the last 3 years or in each of the years in which the program has been operating if it has been in operation for less than 3 years. 
What proportion of total funds allocated under each program in each of the last 3 years, or in each year the program has been operating where it has been in operation for less than 3 years, have been allocated to individuals as against groups. 
Are any attempts made to assess the extent to which the widest cross-section of the community is aware of the existence of the program, and the means by which applications can be submitted; if so, what attempts. 
What checks are made once applications are received for each program to determine if the attempts to widen access to the funds have been successful. 
Is he confident that the widest cross-section of the community is aware of the existence of the programs, and is aware of the application process. 
What procedures exist to assess the use to which the grants are being put, and to attempt some accountability for the money granted. 
What is the total amount that has been paid out under each program in each of the last 3 years or in each year of the operation of the program if it has been operating for less than 3 years. 
What is the total amount of money paid out for all such programs administered by his Department or authorities under his control. 
What attempts are made to ensure that the same individual organisations or persons do not receive several grants under different programs which he or other Ministers are responsible for and which, when added together, may be unwarranted. 
asked the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, upon notice: 
With reference to the answer to question No. 457 (Hansard, 1 August 1974, page 1040) concerning the employment of recreation officers by the Government, how many (a) youth workers, (b) social workers, (c) sport coaches, (d) drama instructors, (e) physical education instructors and (f) other categories of people that he would describe as recreation officers or recreation workers does the Commonwealth employ. 
When will the Government implement a scheme to have recreation officers working within industry. 
asked the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 267 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 1 6 July 1 974. 
asked the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 310 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 1 6 July 1 974. 
asked the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, upon notice: 
When will he answer my Question No. 311 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 16 July 1974. 
asked the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 591 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 24 July 1 974. 
asked the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 592 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 24 July 1 974. 
asked the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 1656 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 13 November 1974. 
asked the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 1767 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 13 November 1974. 
asked the Minister for Tourism and Recreation the following question, upon notice: 
Further to the answer to question Nb. 96 in which he provided a list of grants to organisations to undertake research, what are the conclusions drawn from each project mentioned in his reply. 
Have the results of each project been published; if so, where. 
What impact has each project had on policy decisions taken by him or his Department. 
Who decided the purpose of each project, and who approved each grant. 
asked the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 456 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 1 6 July 1974. 
asked the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 1600 which first appeared on the Nonce Paper on 1 3 November 1974. 
asked the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 1769 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 13 November 1974. 
asked the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, upon notice: 
1 ) What action has the Government taken as a result of the findings of the Youth Say project. 
What other action will the Government take on matters relating to youth. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 1565 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 1 3 November 1 974. 
asked the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 1335 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 16 October 1974. 
asked the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 1571 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 1 3 November 1974. 
asked the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 1766 which first appeared on the Notice Papier on 1 3 November 1974. 
asked the Special Minister of State and Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Matters Relating to the Public Service, upon notice: 
Further to the answer to my question No. 1 667 which indicated very high wastage rates for graduates recruited to base grade positions in the third division of the Public Service, what action is proposed to arrest this position. 
asked the Minister of Environment, upon notice: 
Further to question No. 785 concerning safety regulations governing the establishment of petro-chemical plants within Australia, has he had discussions with the States relating to the design of uniform emission and effluent standards; if so, when, and with what result; if not, does he intend to have discussions in the near future. 
asked the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, upon notice: 
1 ) How many officers or employees of his Department or of authorities under his control are employed on research and development work. 
Where are they employed. 
What is the nature of the work being undertaken. 
What is the total expenditure per annum in maintaining this research and development program. 
Who decides the nature of the programs or projects included in this research and development work. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 1546 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 1 3 November 1 974. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
What programs does the Department of Foreign Affairs or statutory authorities under the Minister's control administer which enable individual groups or people in the community to apply for grants from the Australian Government for a specific purpose. 
What is the name of each program. 
What is the purpose of each program. 
What are the conditions surrounding eligibility for a grant under each program. 
When did each program commence. 
What is the legal authority for the existence of each program. 
How is the community informed of the existence of each program and its entitlement to apply for a grant. 
How many applications for grants under each program have been received in each of the last 3 years or for the period of operation of the program if it has been in operation less than 3 years. 
Who decides which applications for grants should be accepted. 
What percentage of applications for grants under each program nave been successful in each of the last 3 years or in each of the years in which the program has been operating if it has been in operation for less than 3 years. 
What proportion of total funds allocated under each program in each of the last three years or in each of the years in which the program has been operating where the program has been in operation less than 3 years, have been allocated to individuals as against groups. 
Are any attempts made to assess the extent to which the widest cross-section of the community is aware of the existence of the program and the means by which applications can be submitted: if so, what attempts. 
What checks are made once applications are received for each program to determine if the attempts to widen access to the funds have been successful. 
14) Is the Minister confident that the widest cross-section of the community is aware of the existence of the programs, and is aware of the application process. 
What procedures exist to assess the use to which the grants are being put and to attempt some accountability for the money granted. 
What is the total amount that has been paid out under each program in each of the last 3 years or in each year of the operation of the program if it has been operating for less than 3 years. 
What is the total amount of money paid out for all such programs administered by the Department of Foreign Affairs or authorities under the Minister's control. 
What attempts are made to ensure that the same individuals, organisations or persons do not receive several grants under different programs which the Minister or other Ministers are responsible for and which, when added together may be unwarranted. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Will he provide a list of all grants that have been made available in each State to enable groups to establish or continue to operate refuges for women. 
What sum has been made available, and where is the refuge located in each case. 
What is the name of the organisation operating each refuge, what is the purpose of each centre, and when was each established. 
Will he provide a list of all other such centres in each State and Territory. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
What programs does his Department or statutory authorities under his control administer which enable individual groups or people in the community to apply for grants from the Australian Government for a specific purpose. 
What is the name of each program. 
What is the purpose of each program. 
What are the conditions surrounding eligibility for a grant under each program. 
When did each program commence. 
What is the legal authority for the existence of each program. 
How is the community informed of the existence of each program, and its entitlement to apply for a grant. 
How many applications for grants under each program have been received in each of the last 3 years or for the period of operation of the program if it has been in operation less than 3 years. 
Who decides which applications for grants should be accepted. 
What percentage of applications for grants under each program have been successful in each of the last 3 years or in each of the years in which the program has been operating if it has been m operation for less than 3 years. 
What proportion of total funds allocated under each program in each of the last 3 years, or in each year the program has been operating where it has been in operation for less than 3 years, have been allocated to individuals as against groups. 
Are any attempts made to assess the extent to which the widest cross-section of the community is aware of the existence of the program, and the means by which applications can be submitted; if so, what attempts. 
What checks are made once applications are received for each program to determine if the attempts to widen access to the funds have been successful. 
Is he confident that the widest cross-section of the community is aware of the existence of the programs, and is aware of the application process. 
What procedures exist to assess the use to which the grants are being put, and to attempt some accountability for the money granted. 
What is the total amount that has been paid out under each program in each of the last 3 years or in each year of the operation of the program if it has been operating for less than 3 years. 
What is the total amount of money paid out for all such programs administered by bis Department or authorities under his control. 
What attempts are made to ensure that the same individual organisations or persons do not receive several grants under different programs which he or other Ministers are responsible for and which, when added together, may be unwarranted. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Has the Government under study a proposal to develop Port Adelaide as a major container snipping and freight terminal in Australia. 
What other sites in Australia are under study with a view to introducing the land-bridge concept of cargo handling. 
When will a decision be made on the upgrading of the Port Adelaide terminal. 
asked the Minister for Tourism and Recreation upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 886 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 2 August 1974. 
asked the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 1768 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 13 November 1974. 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 444 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 16 July 1974. 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 449 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 1 6 July 1 974. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 1730 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 1 3 November 1 974. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 1749 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 1 3 November 1 974. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister assisting the Prime Minister in matters relating to the Public Service, upon notice: 
1 ) Further to question No. 3 14 concerning the staffing of Authorities, is any section of the Public Service responsible for maintaining a record of such employment; if so, which section. 
Will he arrange for a figure of current total employment in all statutory authorities to be provided; if not, does this imply that the Government has no accurate figure of the total employment in all statutory authorities. 
asked the Minister for Manufacturing Industry, upon notice: 
What programs does his Department or statutory authorities under his control administer which enable individual groups or people in the community to apply for grants from the Australian Government for a specific purpose. 
What is the name of each program. 
What is the purpose of each program. 
What are the conditions surrounding eligibility for a grant under each program. 
) When did each program commence. 
What is the legal authority for the existence of each program. 
How is the community informed of the existence of each program, and its entitlement to apply for a grant. 
How many applications for grants under each program have been received in each of the last 3 years or for the period of operation of the program if it has been in operation less than 3 years. 
Who decides which applications for grants should be accepted. 
10) What percentage of applications for grants under each program have been successful in each of the last 3 years or in each of the years in which the program has been operating if it has been in operation for less than 3 years. 
What proportion of total funds allocated under each program in each of the last 3 years, or in each year the program has been operating where it has been in operation for less than 3 years, have been allocated to individuals as against groups. 
Are any attempts made to assess the extent to which the widest cross-section of the community is aware of the existence of the program and the means by which applications can be submitted; if so what attempts. 
What checks are made once applications are received for each program to determine if the attempts to widen access to the funds have been successful. 
Is he confident that the widest cross-section of the community is aware of the existence of the programs, and is aware of the application process. 
What procedures exist to assess the use to which the grants are being put, and to attempt some accountability for the money granted. 
What is the total amount that has been paid out under each program in each of the last 3 years or in each year of the operation of the program if it has been operating for less than 3 years. 
What is the total amount of moneys paid out for all such programs administered by his Department or authorities under his control. 
What attempts are made to ensure that the same individual organisations or persons do not receive several grants under different programs which he or other Ministers are responsible for and which, when added together, may be unwarranted. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the name of each publication prepared by his Department for distribution to the public. 
) How often is the publication printed. 
Which offices of his Department are responsible for the preparation of each publication. 
What is the purpose of each publication. 
What is the cost of each edition of the publication. 
How many copies of each edition of the publication are produced. 
How many peoply receive the publication. 
Is it distributed free of charge. 
If so, to whom and how is it distributed to them. 
10) If not, what is the selling cost of the publication and what are the retail outlets. 
When was the publication first produced. 
-The Privy Council Appeals Abolition Bill 1975 (No. 2), as we are reminded in the second reading speech of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  comes to the Parliament for the third time. I think it is necessary to put it in perspective. The perspective is this: If this Bill were passed by both the House of Representatives and the Senate, a request then would be made to the House of Commons and the House of Lords to pass legislation in the form contained in the Schedule to the Act. 
If the House of Commons and the House of Lords did so pass that requested legislation, it is very likely that it would have the effect of ending all appeals, in totality, from Australian judicial tribunals to the Privy Council. I say that in all likelihood it would have that effect because nobody can be certain that in law it would have that effect It would be subject to challenge and would need to be considered by the High Court itself. It would be considered not by the Privy Council but by the High Court. So, in any event, the matter could be determined by law. The position at present is that there can be no appeals to  the Privy Council on matters that relate to the limits of power as between the Commonwealth and the States. That is provided in the Constitution. In order to appeal to the Privy Council there must be leave of the High Court; a certificate must be granted by the High Court. No such certificate has been given since 1912. Indeed, if my recollection is correct, only one certificate has been given under that provision of the Constitution. Therefore, one can reasonably assume that such a certificate would not be issued. 
The next step in the process was, in 1968, to limit appeals to the Privy Council which related to Federal jurisdiction. So, there has been a limitation of the right of appeal to the Privy Council further than the practical effect of no certificate since 1912. As a companion to the present Bill, legislation was brought into the House- it was passed by the House and by the Senate- which would have meant that there could be no appeals from the High Court to the Privy Council. The net result of that would be that if litigants opted to go to the High Court they could not then go on to the Privy Council. If they wished to go to the Privy Council and it was an appellable cause, they would have to go direct from the State Supreme Courts to the Privy Council. 
The legislation that was passed has not yet been proclaimed and has not come into effect. Presumably it will not be proclaimed until the result of the third consideration of the current Bill is determined by this chamber and by the Senate. There are 2 methods by which there can be an end to appeals from the State Supreme Courts to the Privy Council. One method is the course adopted in this legislation- that of requesting the British Houses of Parliament to pass an Act preventing appeals from any State court to the Privy Council. The other method is to have a constitutional referendum. There are good arguments for having a constitutional referendum. Let me deal first with the method which is adopted in this Bill. Honourable members will find that clause 7 of the Bill states: 
The Parliament -  that is the House of Representatives and the Senate-  requests and consents to the enactment by the Parliament of the United Kingdom of an Act in, or substantially in, the terms set out in the Schedule. 
The Schedule sets out the terms of the Imperial Act. As I construe that Schedule, it would mean that all appeals, on whatever justiciable issue before any judicial tribunal in Australia, would end. 
Let us consider the way in which it is done- by request to the House of Commons and the House of Lords. If we are to emphasise the independence, which many people in Australia would emphasise, is this a reasonable way in which we should do it? The very argument that we should end all appeals is put on the basis that we are an independent country and we should end all appeals with our own judiciary and a final line of law should remain in Australia. I would support that. I think there is nobody in this chamber who would not support that. The High Court is the final court of appeal establishing the law. It is a single authority which all other judicial bodies should follow. We would all accept that I am sure. The Opposition accepts it. I most certainly do. Therefore, the argument is as to the method of doing it. If it is argued that we should have the High Court as the final court of appeal to establish law because of our independent status, is there anybody in this House who would support the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  and the Government by saying that the way in which to do it is to establish our lack of independence; to establish clearly by an act of this House and the Senate that we do not have the full constitutional independence? We are asking the British Houses of Parliament to do the job for us. We are requesting the House of Commons and the House of Lords to pass this legislation. 
I find it an offensive manner in which to go about it. Of course, the States find it an offensive manner in which to go about it. It pretends that it is fully in accordance with the Statute of Westminster, which is now more than 40 years old. The constitutional change in this 4 decades has been immense. Even at that time, it was undertaken by everybody who was concerned with the Statute of Westminister and the construction of it that there would be no interference in the States and that the House of Commons and the House of Lords would not be asked to do something which would alter the constitutional position of the States. If this legislation were passed and if we suppose that the British Parliament passed the legislation as requested, it would interfere with the Constitution of the States. Therefore, it is not only a wrong process in terms of the way we see the development of our Constitution but also a direct contradiction of what was undertaken clearly and without qualification at the time of the Statute of Westminster. 
We know that the States still hold that view very strongly, because in 1973 I think four- certainly three- of the Premiers went to the United Kingdom to petition the Queen, the Prime Minister and other Ministers in the United Kingdom not to pass any legislation of this request nature. I ask honourable members to imagine the situation: If we establish the precedent of passing this legislation- request and consent legislationthere is no area into which the British House of Commons and House of Lords could not go to pass legislation which affected the States of the Commonwealth of Australia- the 6 constituent States. It ought not to be done in that way. I am not certain whether the States would maintain a view that there should be appeals direct from the State Supreme Courts to the Privy Council. I make it clear that I think that all appeals ought to go exclusively to the High Court and not to the Privy Council. But I am not prepared to participate in any way in a method which emphasises the dependence of Australia instead of its independence and creates a precedent for further request and consent legislation which can seriously imperil the constitutional status of the 6 constituent members of our federation. 
Therefore, I will call in aid for the argument which I put the words of the Leader of the Government, the very man who introduced this legislation. I quote the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  speaking in 1968 as Leader of the Opposition in respect of the limitation of appeals legislation of that year introduced by my former colleague,  Mr Nigel  Bowen as he then was, who in now Chief Judge in Equity of the Supreme Court of New South Wales As recorded in  Hansard,  volume 58 page 853 in that year, the then Leader of the Opposition had this to say: 
It is impossible for this Parliament or for the State Parliaments, by legislation, to abolish appeals from the State Supreme Courts to the Privy Council. This is because the Australian States opted out of the Statute of Westminster. The Australian States are still British Colonies. If they wanted to abolish appeals from their Supreme Courts to the Privy Council they would have to ask the British Parliament to repeal the Judicial Committee Appeals Acts of 1833 and 1844. This would emphasise Australia's dependence on Britain. An alternative course- and I do not suggest that this is free of legal doubt- would be for this Parliament to pass a Bill for a referendum and for the Government to put that referendum to the people to abolish these appeals. This would emphasise our independence. 
What was said in 1968 by the present Prime Minister, then Leader of the Opposition, is as true today as it was then. There is not a single word offered in any second reading speech as to why this course of action should be taken; that is, to establish our dependence and to ask the House of Commons and the House of Lords to pass this legislation. 
Let us suppose- and I certainly hope that it will not come to pass- that this legislation did pass. There is then one necessary question to ask: Would the British Parliament- the House of 
Commons and the House of Lords- accede to the request and pass the legislation? My own view is that the House of Commons would steadfastly refuse to do so. Why should the House of Commons in 1975 interfere in the internal constitutional arrangements of Australia? I believe that the Conservative Party and the Liberal Party would have no pan of it. Whether the Labour Party in Great Britain would respond to a request from the Labor Party in Australia to do so I am unable to say, but I feel most confident that the Labour Party in government in Britain would refuse to have any part of it. So we are probably setting about an empty exercise anyway. The emptiness of that exercise is manifested by the unwillingness on the part of Great Britain to interfere in our constitutional affairs. 
The way in which what is proposed should be done is to consult the people who determine the Constitution, and that is all the Australian people, voting as they can, at a referendum. They could be asked whether they are in favour of the ending of appeals to the Privy Council or, to put it in more positive language, whether they are in favour of the final court of appeal in all matters legal being the High Court of" Australia. I favour it. If there was a referendum I would support it and I am quite sure that it would be supported by the people. That would have the effect of ensuring that the constituent States need not fear in a similar sort of manner anybody interfering further with the powers which were given them by the Constitution or in some way imperilling their position as constituent States of the Commonwealth. 
For these reasons this Bill should be rejected by this chamber. I would regard it as offensive if it were passed. I would regard it as embarrassing if a request was actually made by the Government of my country to the government of another country to pass legislation in its Parliament to affect us. It is embarrassing and belittling to us. Can we not solve the issue ourselves? We have had plenty of opportunities in the life of this Government to consider referendum proposals. That is the way in which it should be done instead of going on with this nonsense. No doubt what the Government wants to do is to have the legislation rejected by the Senate. Then it will claim that it has been frustrated. Such action is not frustration. It is preventing the Government from establishing a precedent of dependence of the national Parliament of Australia on the national Parliament of Britain. I will have no part of it. The Bill ought to be rejected. 
I recapitulate: If the Government wishes to have a referendum and to test the matter by constitutional amendment, I will support it because I very strongly believe that the final court of appeal should be the High Court of Australia. I conclude by emphasising the point that to end all appeals with the High Court would not in any way submit us to any risk of a deterioration of our legal standards in Australia, for I say without any disrespect intended whatever to the learned judges who form the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council none of them can claim greater wisdom in the law, either collectively or individually, than we can claim for our own High Court. We are not going to have any diminution in standards by the High Court's becoming the final court of appeal. What we will have if we achieve this by referendum is a determination according to the Constitution and not by reverting to some anachronistic procedure which is fraught with peril and which stands as a direct threat to the independence of the constituent States which make up the Commonwealth of Australia. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Enderby)  adjourned. 
Sitting suspended from 5.53 to 8 p.m. 
asked the Minister representing the Special Minister of State, upon notice: 
1 ) When will the Minister answer my Question No. 1 559 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 13 November 1974. 
asked the Minister representing the Special Minister of State, upon notice: 
1 ) When will the Minister answer my question No. 1 723 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 13 November 1974. 
asked the Minister representing the Special Minister of State, upon notice: 
1 ) When will the Minister answer my question No. 1724 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 13 November, 1974. 
asked the Minister representing the Special Minister of State, upon notice: 
When will the Minister answer my question No. 1728 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 13 November, 1974. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
Further to question No. 409 concerning studies into specific learning difficulties, will he provide a list of all studies being supported by the Australian Advisory Committee on Research and Development in Education which are concerned with methods of early identification of children with specific learning difficulties. 
What sums are paid to the States to enable them to employ people to engage directly in the actual identification of children with specific learning difficulties. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Was it an initial function of the Priorities Review Staff to submit to the Government at regular intervals strategic reviews of the Government's achievements with regard to its policies and objectives as a whole and in relation to the longer term ordering of these. 
If so, how many such reviews has the Priorities Review Staff submitted to the Government, and on what dates. 
Have they been published; if so when; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister representing the Special Minister of State, upon notice: 
Who is the adviser on community relations to the Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration. 
When was the person appointed. 
What is the person's past experience. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) What schools will be investigated under the Joint Enquiry into Schools with High Migration Enrolment which was recently announced by the New South Wales and Victorian Ministers for Education and himself. 
What is the migrant population at each school as a percentage of the total school population. 
asked the Minister for Manufacturing Industry, upon notice: 
How many people are employed in the brick industry in each State. 
Where are they employed. 
What has been the total output of bricks from Australian companies in each of the last 10 years. 
What is the expected demand for bricks in each State in the next S years. 
What is the expected level of employment in the brick industry in each State in the next 3 years. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Further to the answer to Question No. 1688 in which he provided information about commissions of inquiry or task forces established since 2 December 1972, what is the total number of persons employed within each of the commissions or task forces. 
What is the total salary bill in connection with each commission or task force for these staff members. 
-This legislation is a continuation of legislation that was introduced in 1972. One recalls that it was introduced in the last few months of the term of the last Government. It was preceded by a statement made by the then Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon).  At that time I had the great privilege, as Treasurer, of working very closely in the development of that policy statement that was to be made. As honourable members will be aware, it emerged basically out of the Treasury and out of my own considerations of it as Treasurer, to which Cabinet and the then Prime Minister added their contribution. I say that by way of background and to prove nothing other than at the time the Australian Labor Party in Oppositionit is now in Government- said that the statement and the legislation were totally inadequate and that when it became the Government it would have very comprehensive legislation to introduce. That has not eventuated, and it cannot eventuate. 
What happened when the Labor Party came into office was that it extended for another year the life of the legislation which we had passed- I think it was in October 1972- and which was declared to be interim legislation. A year later, lo and behold, it extended the operation of the interim legislation for yet another year. Now we have this legislation which does not carry the issue any further than extending the areas covered to take account of actions by companies to avoid the legislation. Therefore it will extend to some other areas. In that respect I support the legislation. I support the legislation because it was necessary at the time. It remains necessary. I support the legislation to the extent that it has sought to cover gaps which have been exposed over the 2 years of its operation. 
I think it is worth recalling to the House the way in which that legislation was to operate. I might mention in passing that in the second reading speech the Minister for Tourism and Recreation and Minister Assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Stewart)  who presented it on behalf of the present Treasurer,  Mr Hayden-  I mention him by name because the speech refers to a statement made by a predecessor of his as Treasurer,  Mr Crean-  said: 
The measures have worked reasonably well. 
That is an implicit as well as an explicit statement because there has been no change in the method adopted in the regional statement and in the interim legislation. The Minister went on to say: 
Briefly, in addition to company takeovers effected by means of acquisition of voting shares, the Bill will cover 3 other areas: 
First, takeovers covered by the 1972 policy measures, that is, takeovers of businesses by means of asset acquisitions and takeovers of mineral rights. 
Second, takeover methods which have been used to evade the operation of the 1972 statutory and policy measures for the control of foreign takeovers. These comprise company takeovers effected by means of acquisitions of shares other than voting shares; company takeovers effected by means of splitting a large shareholding into small nominee groups where this has the effect of increasing the voting rights attached to the shareholding; business takeovers effected by means of leases or licences over the assets of a business; and business takeovers effected by agreements and arrangements relating to broad representation rights and rights to participate in the management or profits of a business. 
So these areas have been identified as a route which can be taken to avoid the effect of the legislation. The third area covered was transfers of control of business from one foreign group to another. That area is full of very significant difficulties. 
The Minister also said in his second reading speech: 
The Government considers that it would not be feasible or desirable to attempt to examine all overseas transactions in the shares of a company incorporated outside Australia ... on rare occasions, such transactions could result in a change in the control of a major Australian business that would be against the national interest. The Bill accordingly provides that a share deal which results in a change in the control of a company incorporated outside Australia will be examinable where either SO per cent or more of the assets of that company are held in Australia or where its Australian assets amount to more than $3m. 
I cannot imagine a proposal which is more likely to create confusion in relation to the development of Australian industry in partnership with overseas investors. Can anybody imagine company A involved in a takeover procedure with company B, in the Unites States of America, United Kingdom, Germany, France or wherever it might be, if the amount involved exceeds $3m wanting to come to the Australian Treasurer and to the Overseas Takeover Committee and asking whether because their assets, which are probably a very small part of the total corporate conglomerate existing in Australia exceed the prescribed amount, the takeover is permissible? That small amount could frustrate a takeover. It is a foolish proposition. 
The next point that I wish to make is that this Bill perpetuates the proposal that its provisions will be controlled sheerly by the discretion of the 
Treasurer. It is certainly true that, in the 1972 statement, a policy was expressed by which it would be considered, and that policy in fact has not been changed to any appreciable degree up to today. The purpose of that statement and of the interim legislation- specifically called interim legislation- was to enable consideration which would determine the Treasurer's mind and put those proposals in legislative form. Also to be determined was whether it was proper to leave the sole discretion to a Minister, whether it was the Treasurer or any other Minister, when the decision of that Minister was not challengable in any way and was not correctable if he acted on wrong premises. I think it is wrong for the Government to introduce legislation and just blandly say that it has proved impracticable, consistent with the needs for flexibility, to express the criteria which the precision required by legislative form would need. 
Companies wishing to invest in Australia, to engage in takeovers, joint ventures or whatever it may be, are entitled to certainty. They have no certainty under these provisions. The rules can be altered at any time; even in the midst of a proposal which is being developed between an overseas company and an Australian company, the rules can be changed. What would have been permitted will now be excluded, and that will operate to the disadvantage not only of the overseas company but also of the Australian company. If it is to the disadvantage of the overseas company, it has the effect of generating a lack of confidence in the Australian Government and the way in which it operates. So, we suffer not only from the overseas company concerned but also through the whole range of companies which have an interest in investment in Australia. We also suffer very greatly through the Australian company which has been frustrated in the business arrangement which it wishes to pursue. That can affect Australian shareholders very seriously. It can affect the share of the market which the Australian company has. It can lead to a whole range of Australian companies being doubtful about entering into arrangements with the overseas company. Quite clearly it is up to the Government to express its policy in legislation form, which previously it lacked. 
It may be argued that, with changing economic circumstances, these requirements cannot be put in a piece of legislation. That is an argument which can be put and has been put. lt may have some merit to it. But there is no reason why one of two things cannot happen. The first is that the policy considerations can be expressed in a sub-legislative form, that is, by regulation. Then, until the regulation is changed, people can rely upon the regulation. Any change in the regulation is subject to the scrutiny of the national Parliament, either in the House of Representatives or in the Senate. I do not believe that it is beyond the drafting capacity of the Parliamentary Counsel to draft such a provision. It may be beyond the policy building capacity of the Government, but I would hope that the Government would not admit to such a shortcoming. 
The other point which it is very important to emphasise is that  Mr Hayden  as Treasurer will receive a report from the Overseas Takeover Committee- a body still existing; it has no statutory form- in which that Committee would advise him. Having received that advice, the Treasurer will take whatever decision he chooses. He will merely say that the takeover is agreed to or the takeover is refused. There is no requirement for him to give any reasons whatever for his decisions. Even if he gave reasons, the reasons could not be tested. He could not be corrected if he acted wrongly, capriciously or- and I do not suggest it of him as a personmaliciously because he did not like a particular Australian company or a particular overseas company. 
The bases of the policy are quite sound. I must say that they are sound because we established them, and they remain sound. But they are the net economic benefits in relation to such matters as competition, productive capacity, technological change, development of new markets, production, quality, the range of goods and services and the level of prices and efficiency which would be sufficient to justify a change in the foreign control of the businesses concerned. If they pass those national interest tests, there are additional criteria which are scarcely necessary really. The Treasurer is required to be satisfied that the takeover company would follow practices consistent with Australia 's interests. It needs to be pointed out that if a company comes into Australia, that company is subject to all the laws of Australia. It is subject to the tax laws and to the Companies Act. It is subject to policy decisions put into legislative form. Not only that, it is subject to the will of the Government when the Government expresses its wishes to the company. Quite clearly these could be put in a sublegislative form, even if not in a legislative form. The Government should consider the way in which the sole discretion of the Treasurer can be challenged and corrected if necessary. It is not sufficient to leave the matter solely to an amorphous committee on foreign takeovers to advise the Treasurer, and to leave it at that. 
Overseas investment in Austrafia is particularly important to us. We must remember about overseas investment in Australia that it is essential that there be certainty in respect of both the Australian company and the overseas company. If we have that certainty, we can attract overseas investment. We will want overseas investment in Australia. The need for it is developing very strongly already. Without overseas investment, we cannot have the contributions which those overseas companies can give. Overseas involvement in Austrafia provides 4 major benefits for us. The first is technology. We do not have the capacity to develop our own technology in all areas. We do not have the capacity to involve the money which I would like to see involved in scientific investigation so that we can tap the resources of inventiveness and innovation which Australia possesses. We must have that technology. We do not want Australia to develop with people working with outmoded technology. Without that technology we cannot have productivity and we cannot compete with our competitors on overseas markets, and we will not be able to compete in our domestic market against imported goods. 
We must have know-how to increase productivity. We must have the development of commodity markets. We can achieve that through the third point, that is, by marketing. By overseas involvement in Austrafia we can have a very much greater access to overseas markets. The mere fact that we have Australian companies associated with overseas companies opens up a very wide range of markets for us. Quite clearly we should not permit- we have the power to do this- overseas companies to put franchise restrictions on the Australian subsidiaries so they cannot export where they want or compete where they want. We need the access to markets which overseas capital would bring. 
The fourth important point is that overseas investment in Australia supplements our domestic capital formation. To close the door to overseas investment in Australia will mean reduced growth and reduced productivity in Austrafia. It will inevitably lead to lower living standards. I do not mean absolutely lower than they are today; I mean that we will be a less achieving nation and what might be an increase of a factor of twenty will, in the future, be an increase of a factor of ten in our standard of living. If anyone wants examples of how overseas investment can build a country let them not forget to look at the way the American economy was built up on the basis of overseas capital, technology, access to markets and capital formation. The same thing can happen in other countries. We should not forego that ourselves. All developing nations want overseas capital. We must remember that we are in the curious position of being both developed, in the sense of a high living standard with a manufacturing capacity, and underdeveloped because of our massive raw resources which we need to put to the use of the Australian people to improve our standard of living and our capacity. 
There are a couple of points which I shall mention in relation to this matter. I have heard arguments that we should require a 5 1 per cent ownership in all Australian commercial manufacturing enterprises. In my judgment that is a false position. If we were to require a 5 1 per cent ownership in all Australian enterprises it would mean for the time being a total incapacity to invest money in any new enterprises. It would require a redistribution of investment capital in a way which would be quite traumatic for us. The question then is: Could we set this target for the future? In the future we may be able to set that target for the future beyond that, but I think that at this stage it would be a bad error for us to adopt that course because it is not achievable by a great number of companies. If we have that as an objective presumably there will be an implied obligation to reach it. That would, in just the same way, redistribute the investment of capital in Australia. This would then spread and not increase the control in Australia by overseas companies. Everybody knows that 15 per cent, which is the basis of the legislation, in many instances will give control. So what advantage is it to say there must be a 51 per cent equity ownership if, in fact, control is within a small group of 15 per cent of the shareholders? I reject that proposition. 
I want to see joint ventures. But I do not want joint ventures on the basis that an overseas company comes to Australia and issues capital to the Australian public as shareholders in the overseas company. As individual shareholders they would have no real capacity to influence the policy of that overseas company. If it is a joint venture and if all the Australian equity which is put out is in a single Australian entity, then we have an entity which can be in partnership in a joint venture arrangement with the overseas company. I believe that in this way we can encourage to the fullest overseas entry into Australia to assist us in the great job of developing Australia. No country has greater resources per capita than we have. No people have a greater right to expect achievement and rising living standards. But we will need the partnership and the co-operation of overseas capital in Australia to achieve that. If we do not achieve it we will have failed not only this generation but also future generations. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
For what purpose has his Department used management consultant firms in the last 12 months. 
Which firms have been used. 
3 ) What was the total cost. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
With reference to the answer to question No.548 (Hansard, 19 September 1974, page 1621) in which the Prime Minister indicated that the form and frequency of exercises in Government Departments in civil defence preparedness are as determined by individual Departments, on what dates in the last 1 8 months have exercises of this nature been conducted in his Department. 
Which officers and employees took part. 
How many officers and employees took part 
What was the purpose of each of the exercises. 
Does he accept that this is an area where the Australian Government can give a lead to other employers. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Police and Customs, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the advertising budget of the Department of Police and Customs for 1975-76. 
What types of advertising are entailed in expenditure of this amount. 
What were the corresponding figures for each of the last 5 years. 
-It is quite entertaining to see that there are some members of the Left who are now prepared to speak on what is a major issue before the Australian public. That issue is no less real today than it was in 1963. The issue is: Are we prepared in time of peace to grant facilities on our own soil to a foreign nation? That is the issue that must be answered today as it had to be answered in 1963. Without any doubt, from this side of the House and from the overwhelming proportion of the Australian people, the answer will be: 'Yes, we will provide facilities and bases. We do not regard that as as derogation from our sovereignty. On the other hand, we regard it as the way in which our sovereignty can be preserved '. Without a treaty such as the ANZUS Treaty, Australia would not have the assurance of national security that it now has under that treaty. 
The Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant)  spoke in terms which would not find support from more than 10 per cent of the Australian population. The great majority of that percentage would not be merely communists; they would be to the far left of the communists. 
-You would know better than I. 
-You mix with them. In 1 963 we had a debate in this Parliament on the North West Cape base. Let us call it a base; it is a communications facility. That facility has a very low frequency which enables the United States military command to communicate with its naval vessels throughout portion of the world. It probably has a range of 4 000 miles to 5 000 miles. It can communicate with submarines under the surface of the sea. It is very important to understand the purpose of that facility. It is very important for us to answer the question whether we are prepared to permit that facility to continue to operate on Australian soil. 
In 1963, the Executive of the then Government formulated the agreement. It did not have to bring that agreement before the Parliament as the Executive had the power to conclude the agreement and to let it run with aU the force of law. But the Executive brought to the national Parliament, to enable the national Parliament to debate the Bill the purpose of which was merely to authorise the agreement. When the Bill was before the Parliament we had a debate the Uke of which has seldom been emulated since. Every leading personality in the political sphere in the Parliament spoke. For the Opposition,  Mr Calwell  led and  Mr Whitlam  followed. For the Government,  Sir Garfield  Barwick led and  Sir Robert  Menzies,  Mr Harold  Holt and the present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  also spoke. That debate was to determine whether or not we should grant to a foreign power the right to establish a base in Australia in time of peace. Well we won the debate in terms of numbers in the Parliament because we had the numbers at that dme. 
What is more important is that within 6 months an election was held. At that election in 1963 the majority of the Government increased from a mere one- my honourable and learned friend from Moreton  (Mr Killen)  will well remember that we had a majority of one at that time- to a substantial majority. The Government was returned with the majority because the Aus.tralian people accepted the proposition that we put before them. That debate occurred against the background of the ANZUS treaty. The questions that were asked included: Did we believe in ANZUS? Were we prepared to play our part in ANZUS? Were we relying on ANZUS as a treaty for our national security? That was the background to the debate. And if the answer to those questions was yes, then quite clearly we had to allow the United States to have this facility so that the United States could play its part not only in the ANZUS Treaty but in world security- the western defence system. That is what the issue was about. 
During the course of the debate the issue came up as to whether Australia should have control of the base. The argument was quite clear. The Opposition at that time, the Labor Party, said: There is no way in which the United States can be allowed to have control of this base. When we come to office we will renegotiate the treaty to take away from the United States control of the base'. We in government at that time said: 'We have negotiated, and control must lie with the United States. If it is to be joint control'- as was argued by the Labor Party at that time- 'joint control would put into the hands of the people at the base representing the Australian Government the power of veto'. We were not prepared to say to the United States: 'You can have this base only if we have the power of veto  To do so would have inevitably meant that the United States would not have agreed. We would not have had the base. We would have abrogated ANZUS there and then by that action. 
The Labor Party said: 'When we come to government we will, in accordance with the Treaty, renegotiate'. The Labor Party's purpose was to renegotiate to give joint control- in other words, to assume the power of veto. That is what the left wing of the Labor Party wanted. It will be remembered that then was coined the phrase the 36 faceless men'- the men who reached the decision while poor Arthur Calwell and poor Gough Whitlam were sitting out in the shrubs waiting for the decision. 
It was cold then and it is cold now. The whole point is that we now have before the Parliament, for reasons which I am unable to discern, a piece of legislation which the Government does not need to bring before the Parliament to alter the Agreement. The Government has altered the Agreement in a piffling way. It has done nothing whatever to fulfil its promises of what it would do when it came into government. The amendments to Articles 2, 3 and 14 merely re-assert the existing practice at the base. The only addition is to give Australia its own national room. The United States has its national room. We do not have access to the communications that go through the national room. We have not asked for it. It was not part of the negotiations by the present Government. It has set up a parallel Australian national room. Australia was always able to use the base to communicate with its own armed forces and its ships, including submarines, operating in the Indian or Pacific oceans. This amendment gives us the opportunity to reaffirm that we will look after the security of this country by means of treaties with our allies, and that we will give to our allies complete assurances that they can rely on our committed word and our willingness, at least on this side of the House, to defend Australia and to make our contributions to the western defence system. 
The debate today is against a changed background- not the background of 1963 but the background of today. The background of today is one in which a threat to Australia could emerge at any time by a destabilisation of the area to the north of us. A good question to ask is: Is that area likely to be destabilised? The answer must be: We cannot foretell, but there is a constant threat that it might. The threat arises in this way: The Soviet Union and China have great enmity towards each other. Troops are constantly on the alert at their border across the Asian mainland. If one goes to Peking one will be shown shelters and be told by the Chinese that rocketry is aimed at Peking and that the shelters are to protect them from nuclear fallout. We all know that the Soviet is fearful of being overrun by China in the longer run. China, for its part, is fearful of an interdiction strike by the Soviet. But across the Asian mainland their border is destabilised. Nobody would deny that. 
The new factor that enters into this situation is that the Soviet has naval forces in the Indian Ocean, with service from Vladivostok, past the east of Japan, through the Sunda Strait and into the Indian Ocean, or alternatively out from the northern ports of Russia or through the Mediterranean and around the Cape of Good Hope in South Africa. We all know that Soviet ship time in the Indian Ocean has been building up as a geometric progression. We now know that the Suez is open and the line of communication is thereby so much shortened. The Chinese see this and they see a threat of their being surrounded, not merely from the land border of Asia but from the south. They see also the Soviet achieving facilities, as the Soviet calls them- bases, we would call them- all around the bordering states of the Indian Ocean where their ships can be serviced. 
The Chinese are fearful of being surrounded. So there is a competition for power, a competition for influence in the Indian Ocean and the South-East Asian region. That competition for influence is caused by the Soviet wanting to penetrate into African states. The Chinese have done this, the Soviet has done this down through South-East Asia and, if that competition builds up, there will be a destabilised area. Remember that the Soviet has massive sea power and airborne sea power. The Chinese have no sea power or airborne sea power but they have plenty of ground power. Therefore, if the Chinese are to match this Soviet naval presence it can do so only on the ground. If there is a competition, not only ideologically but for areas of influence, of sovereignty or suzerainty, then the whole of the area to the north will become destabilised. We should look at Australia in its geographical context in the event of that area becoming destabilised. We have to the north of us a destabilised area of thousands of miles extending across the Pacific to the United States, and across Asia, Asia Minor and Europe to Western Europe. We cannot look there for support. If we are to look anywhere for support we must look to the ANZUS treaty. 
In those circumstances would anybody in this chamber be prepared to deny the United States the use of communication facilities at North West Cape? Members of the Labor Party will say: We are not denying them the use; we are letting them have it. But they also say: We regret that the agreement was ever entered into; given the opportunity we would end it and we will end it as soon as we can. Would they abrogate the agreement? Under the terms of the agreement they can renegotiate it at any time. The state of mond exposed by Labor speakers tonight is that they want to abrogate the agreement and they would do so if they thought they could do so honourably. They want it both ways- honourably and yet not abrogated. They cannot have it both ways. If they mean what they say then they ought to say in the fulsomeness of the term: This agreement is there, we stand by it, it is vital to us and we want it to be maintained. But they dare not do that because of the outbursts of members like  Mr Bryant,  the Minister for the Capital Territory, and  Mr Young,  the honourable member for Port Adelaide and formerly the Secretary of the Australian Labor Party. 
Instead members of the Government talk about a nuclear free zone, but what will that do? Does anybody imagine that the Soviet ships unload their nuclear weapons before they sail into the Indian Ocean? If we want a United States presence in the Indian Ocean as a balancing force to the competition between the Soviet and China then we must encourage the United States naval and air power into the Indian Ocean. Who would say that before they sailed into the Indian Ocean they must likewise jettison their nuclear weapons? It is a fairy tale. A nuclear free zone would operate only to the great disadvantage of Australia. 
What of the other proposal that the Indian Ocean should be a zone of peace? How can it be a zone of peace when the 2 contestant nations build facilities all over the states- the littoral states as they are called- bordering the Indian Ocean? How can members of the Labor Party say that they want the Indian Ocean as a zone of peace when they themselves, by the continuance of this agreement, are prepared to give a base to the United States literally on the Indian Ocean coast? They deny themselves. They make nonsense of their own argument. Fortunately the 
Australian peole would not accept the argument for to accept it would be to prejudice very seriously the defence capacity of this country in alliance with a great ally, the United States. 
The purposes of the Government's amendments are merely to try and placate the left, to leave the left with some sense that they have partly won. But there is no room for that. We must face up to the issue; the left must face up to the issue and the right must face up to the issue. The issue is simple and clear- will we or will we not grant to an ally, albeit a foreign power, a base on our Austraiian soil in a time of peace? The answer clearly must be, yes. This debate is not confined merely to the North West Cape base for there are other foreign bases in Australia. If members of the Labor Party in government vote for this Bill they will, in fact, be voting for the continuance of the other bases in Australia. We strongly support the continuance of those other bases. But the honourable member for Port Adelaide, the Minister for the Capital Territory and everybody else on that side of the House know clearly that if one votes yes for this Bill which their Government has put up, one is voting for the continuation of every United States base in Australia. That is the simplicity of the situation; that is the reality of the situation; that is, in a sense, the awesomeness of the situation. 
I conclude by referring to 2 statements. One was made on 21 May 1963 when the debate on this subject was before this chamber. It comprises one sentence: 
All that we assert is that there should be no annihilation without representation. 
Those were the words of the present Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  containing within them all the implications that by having that base we are risking annihilation. Yet the Prime Minister as the leader of the Government has renegotiated an agreement which, thank heaven, is maintaining the base with all its integrity. The Prime Minister said one thing in 1963 and now acts differently in Government.  His  word, I am afraid, in respect of foreign affairs and defence cannot be relied upon. The other quote is from the same gentleman, the Prime Minister, who 8 years later almost to the day- not 22 May but 2 1 May- said: 
I thank the Minister for Defence for his effective work on behalf of our country in this matter as in so many others. 
We know what happened to the Minister for Defence so shortly after that. Nevertheless, we can be thankful to Lance Barnard that he had the guts to stand out against the left and maintain this base and the other bases and make a giant contribution to ANZUS. He will be remembered. But it is time that the left, if it wants to undo the agreement, made its intentions clear. It should not mask itself and come in a fleeting way into a debate. For the debate on this major issue there are just 5 members of the Labor Party present in the chamber. They do not have the guts to come - 
asked the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, upon notice: 
What sum has been given by way of assistance to groups and individuals for sporting purposes. 
What has been the total administrative cost by way of salary and wages, and office accommodation costs of officers of his Department who are involved in providing this assistance. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the advertising budget of his Department for 1975-76. 
What types of advertising are entailed in expenditure of this amount. 
What were the corresponding figures for each of the last 5 years. 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the advertising budget of his Department for 1975-76. 
What types of advertising are entailed in expenditure of this amount. 
What were the corresponding figures for each of the last 5 years. 
asked the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the advertising budget of his Depanment for 1975-76. 
What types of advertising are entailed in expenditure of this amount. 
What were the corresponding figures for each of the last 5 years 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
When will he answer my Question No. 1596 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 13 November 1974. 
asked the Minister for Services and Property, upon notice: 
1 ) Has he received a submission from the Shire of Belmont requesting the release by the Government of 18 acres of land resumed byitin 1946. 
If so, what is the present position in thus matter. 
asked the Minister for Manufacturing Industry, upon notice: 
How many companies are involved in the petrochemical industry in Australia, or are undertaking exploration with a view to taking part in the petrochemical industry. 
What are the names of these companies and where are they located. 
What is the size of the companies concerned in terms of employment, funds invested in the industry, etc. 
asked the Minister for Manufacturing Industry, upon notice: 
What was the total amount of plastics imported into Australia in each of the last 5 years, and what is the estimated level of imports in each of the next5 years, by type of plastic. 
What was the total level of raw materials imported into Australia in each of the last5 years, and what is the expected level of imports of raw materials in each of the next 5 years, by type of material. 
Can he indicate those plastics in which Australian industry is self-sufficient or is likely to become self-sufficient within the next 5 years. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
With reference to the answer to question No. 548 (Hansard, 19 September 1974, page 1621) in which the Prime Minister indicated that the form and frequency of exercises in Government Departments in civil defence preparedness are as determined by individual Departments, on what dates in the last 1 8 months have exercises of this nature been conducted in his Department 
) Which officers and employees took pan. 
How many officers and employees took pan. 
What was the purpose of each of the exercises. 
Does he accept that this is an area where the Australian Government can give a lead to other employers. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 94 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 10 July 1 974. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 1758 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 1 3 November 1 974. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 1756 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 1 3 November 1 974. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 437 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 1 6 July 1974. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 1752 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 13 November 1974. 

 Mr Les Johnson: The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the right honourable member's question was given on 13 May 1975, Hansard page2192. 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) Who is conducting the research into community welfare needs in the Mount Morgan area. 
) What is the nature of the research program. 
When will it be concluded. 
Will the reports be published. 
If so, what form will the publication of any results take. 
How is the $6,000 that has been allocated for this project being distributed. 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Will the Minister provide details of the project to be carried out by the Centre for Human Services with funding of more than $4,000 from the Australian Government to provide communications service to assist multi-ethnic people to express their needs. 
Does this project have the approval of the Minister for Labor and Immigration; if so, when was this approval sought and given; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for Defence upon notice: 
1 ) Are officers and other ranks of the Defence Force now entitled to retire after 20 years service and to receive a lump sum payment equivalent to 4 years pension. 
Does the Government have any plans to remove this entitlement. 
asked the Minister for Environment upon notice: 
1 ) What is the advertising budget of his Department for 1975-76. 
What types of advertising are entailed in expenditure of this amount. 
What were the corresponding figures for each of the last 5 years. 
asked the Minister for Science and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the advertising budget of his Department for 1975-76. 
What types of advertising are entailed in expenditure of this amount. 
What were the corresponding figures for each of the last 5 years. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the advertising budget of his Department for 1975-76. 
What types of advertising are entailed in expenditure of this amount. 
What were the corresponding figures for each of the last 5 years. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Did he state in October 1973 that the former Department of Customs and Excise would not be amalgamated with any one Department and that its two principal features, revenue and the law-enforcement aspects, would go to different instrumentalities. 
If so, is that still his intention; if not, what is his intention. 
asked the Minister for Environment, upon notice: 
What is the distinction between the work the Bureau of Environmental Studies, which is located within his Department, will pursue and the work being pursued by the CSIRO on environmental matters, which comes within the responsibility of the Minister for Science and Consumer Affairs. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Who is conducting the research into community welfare needs in isolated parts of the Jericho Shire. 
What is the nature of the research program. 
3 ) When will it be concluded. 
Will the reports be published. 
If so, what form will the publication of any results take. 
How is the $6,000 that has been allocated for this project being distributed. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) When the Government provides money to community groups to purchase equipment such as in the case of the new hot-water system for the New South Wales Protestant Federation Children's Home, or office furniture for the New South Wales Good Neighbour Council Migrant Information Service, does this property, once purchased by these societies with Government funds, remain the property of the Government 
What obligations are placed on such organisations in respect of these items. 
Are they to be returned to the Government if the use for which they were purchased no longer exists. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. It has been reported that media reporters have been refused permission to go to East Timor. Is this true? If so, who has refused permission? Given the nature of the alleged brutality and killing in that territory and given the territory's immense strategic importance in Australia's future, especially if the territory becomes a communist state, will the Government not only permit but also co-operate in landing representatives of the Australian media in that territory? This should serve the Government's purposes also, because its information is limited by the absence of any Australian consul or other direct representative and the Government must rely on second-hand information. I can assure the honourable gentleman that there are many competent Australian journalists who would be prepared to undertake the risk to observe the conditions at first hand and report to the Australian people. 
-In striking a Budget, the predominant consideration must be the overall national objective. Australia 's objective is to build an achieving, tolerant and liberal society. We cannot build tolerance and liberal attitudes if people's minds are preoccupied by the material issues that affect their lives- prices, employment, personal security. Inflation brings that preoccupation. Nobody can argue sensibly that we now have an achieving society. The Budget strategy should be to restrain inflation and restore achievement. 
I turn to the position reached by 1974-75 Budget. Australia's position as the last Budget ran out is not really arguable. There had been a tidal surge to the public sector. In money terms, it grew 46 per cent in financial 1975. That is a growth in real terms of 26 per cent to 28 per cent. The suction of resources away from the private sector had been like a tropical cyclone, and had left industry, commerce and business a scene of destruction. Employment in the public sector had increased 90 000, while 150 000 jobs had been lost elsewhere. This meant that the violent transfer of resources had actually destroyed some 60 000 jobs. Unemployment had reached 250 000. Prices had risen 16 per cent. Housing had fallen sharply and new home ownership had drifted from the reach of all but the higher income earners and the subsidised. National production had actually fallen. Investment in new productive plant, equipment and factories had dramatically fallen away. Our relative position compared with other Western industrialised countries had slipped- except for Britain and Italy. 
What is the trend for 1975-76? In framing the Budget, the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  has adopted an optimistic view of the future. He believes that recovery has started and will continue in the private sector. This has encouraged him to provide for a further real growth in the public sector. More significantly, he has provided 2 measures only for the private sector- continuance of the double depreciation allowance and a  Vh  per cent company tax cut. Of fundamental importance is the question: Is the Treasurer's optimism well founded? The mix of statistics with actual experience, had not encouraged confidence. Underlying inflation had been at nearly 20 per cent and funds available for investment within companies more difficult than at any time in most companies' history. The money supply had been growing rapidly- in excess of 20 per cent. With this rate of pushing money into the economy, it had to be expected that consumer spending would rise. However, a consumer spending burst could not support a recovery. Only an investment resurgence could sustain a recovery. It certainly appeared that the trend of falling investment and worsening unemployment would continue, judged against the fall in profits, the high cost of borrowed money and the incapacity to raise new equity capital on a depressed stock market. 
There was a long and heavy line of evidence and logic to support the view that, unless marked stimulatory measures were taken to revitalise the private sector and to control inflation, the situation would worsen. Unknown to other observers, a new batch of statistics had led to the Treasurer's optimism-  The Quarterly Estimates of National Income and Expenditure, June Quarter 1975 (Preliminary).  This document from the Bureau of Statistics was embargoed until 8 p.m., 19 August, that is, when the Treasurer commenced his speech. I ask for leave to incorporate part of that release in  Hansard. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- . . . Gross domestic product at constant prices rose by 3.1 per cent in the June quarter and was 2.1 per cent higher than a year earlier . . . Gross non-farm product at constant prices rose by 3. 1 per cent in the June quarter and was 0.4 per cent higher than a year earlier . . . Comparing the full year 1974-75 with the year 1973-74, gross domestic product was . . . 1.8 per cent lower at constant prices, while gross non-farm product was . . . 2.6 per cent lower at constant prices. The growth in wages, salaries and supplements continued to moderate in the June quarter when the increase was only 1 . 1 per cent. The gross operating surplus of companies, which has been extremely variable over the last four quarters, is estimated to have increased by 37.3 per cent in the June quarter following a decrease of 14.6 per cent in the March quarter . . . Other significant features of the June quarter included a recovery in gross fixed capital expenditure on other capital equipment (8.4 per cent at constant prices), some recovery in private capital expenditure on dwellings after falling for several quarters, a continued recovery in private final consumption expenditure (2.3 per cent at constant prices following a rise of 2.0 per cent in the March quarter) and a continued run down of private non-farm stocks. 
I thank the House. These figures showed a marked recovery during the June quarter of gross domestic product and gross non-farm product, a slowing in wage rises, a restoration of profits- to the extent of 37.3 per cent for the quarter- renewed investment and spending without a backlog of stocks to draw from. If true, it was the birth of economic recovery. 
This statistical evidence is difficult to reconcile with the more pragmatic evidence of business experience, which still claims and shows cash flow shortage, squeezed profits and little investment activity. Income and expenditure quarterly figures are always revised and no doubt these will be. However, I would not expect such revision to negate what appears to be shown. Not for the first time there is a conflict between the statistical and the practical- between Canberra and the city, and neither can be wholly wrong or wholly right. But does it usher in a trend of recovery or is it merely a quarter's anomaly? I believe that it would be very dangerous to sit back and leave the private sector to battle on because of these figures. Likewise, it would be dangerous to take a relaxed view of government spending, relying on an interpretation of those figures. The Budget has done both and for these 2 reasons, and others, I believe that it is a very poor economic prescription. 
The Budget strategy should be to pull inflation back and restore full employment. This requires formulating an incomes policy and a monetary policy to integrate with the fiscal measures of the Budget. All must work together and are, in every sense, interdependent. Simply stated, the private sector needs relief from the pressures of high cost of wages and borrowed funds. This requires a restoration of cash flow and profits. The wage earner needs relief from higher prices and the tax burden of carrying a luxuriant growth of government spending. The mix should have been fiscal measures of tax relief and incentives, accompanied by tight control over spending in the Budget, a monetary policy holding down the growth of the money available to the economy so as not to feed inflation- both supplemented by Government determination to hold all wage increases within the principles of the indexation decision of 30 April of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission- and giving leadership in resisting any claims pressed by sheer industrial strength. There .are many current claims and some harmful strikes to be met. All of these are claiming significant wage increases beyond the guidelines of the indexation decision. Therein lies the right incomes policy. If it is not sustained, the wage indexation decision will collapse. The Arbitration Commission alone cannot pursue an incomes policy; it must be fully supported by the Government in budget and monetary policy. 
I turn now to consideration of why the Budget is inadequate. The Budget contains errors. Government spending is still too high, at an estimated growth of 23 per cent. The deficit is too big. How is it to be financed? Insufficient attention is given to the problems of the private sector, particularly the serious downturn in investment. The urgent recommendations of the Mathews Committee are completely ignored. As a result the Budget fails totally to tackle the problem of achieving high rates of growth into the longer term future as well as the need to stimulate private sector employment in the shorter term. The Budget has failed completely to ease the burden of personal income tax. Net pay-as-you-earn tax collections will rise by 43 per cent this year after rising by 43 per cent last year and by 34 per cent in 1973-74- a compounded rise of 175 per cent in stage tax collections in 3 Labor Budgets. Growth in government spending at 23 per cent is excessive. It implies an increase in real spending at a time when the need is to reverse the transfer of resources to the government sector which has occurred over the last 2 years- 20 per cent and 46 per cent respectively in each of those years. There ought to have been no real growth- that is growth in constant money terms- in government spending this year to enable the private sector to benefit from any real growth in the economy. Further, Labor in government has not been able to keep spending within its Budget. I ask leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table to demonstrate this fact. 
asked the Minister for Manufacturing Industry, upon notice: 
How many companies are engaged in the manufacture, processing and selling of plastics, materials and goods in Australia. 
Can he provide an indication of the size and location within each State of the companies. 
How many companies are there in each of the following types of activity in each State: (a) moulding, (b) extrusion, (c) fabrication including both rigid and flexible material, (d) materials supplied and (e) other types, including flooring manufacturers and machinery manufacturers. 
What is the total employment in each State in each of the categories in part (3). 
What is the predicted employment levels in each State in each of the categories in part (3) in each of the next 5 years. 
What was the per capita consumption of plastics in Australia in each of the last 5 years, and what is the estimated per capita consumption for the next 5 years, for each type of plastic. 
What were the actual production levels of plastics in Australia in each of the last 3 years, and what are the estimated production levels in each of the next 3 years for each type of plastic. 
What was the total amount of plastics exported from Australia in each of the last 3 years, and what is the estimated level of exports in each of the next 3 years, for each type of plastic 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
Further to question No. 370, does he have available to him any figures for any future year which indicate expected enrolments for Ph.D. degrees in Australian universities; if so, what are the details. 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
Have any feasibility studies been made or are any being made by his Department into the development of a uranium enrichment plant in Australia. 
If so, what is the nature of the studies. 
In particular, are studies being undertaken into the possibility of basing such a plant in Western Australia. 
What is the estimated cost of such a plant. 
Will he make available to the House all relevant documents concerning the proposed uranium enrichment plant in Australia. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
What progress has been made in the examination being conducted by his Department on taxation provisions that could be introduced to curb land speculation. 
What provisions are under examination. 
When does he expect the examination to be completed. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
Did he indicate on 13 January 1974 that measures were under consideration aimed at stabilising the price of land, stopping speculation and preserving the existing use of land; if so, what are these measures. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
How many municipalities in metropolitan (a) Sydney, (b) Melbourne, (c) Newcastle, (d) Wollongong, (e) Brisbane, (f) Adelaide, (g) Perth and (h) Hobart are totally unsewered. 
Which municipalities are they, and what is the estimated cost of sewerage requirements to each of them. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
How many municipalities in metropolitan (a) Sydney, (b) Melbourne, (c) Newcastle, (d) Perth, (e) Brisbane, (0 Adelaide and (g) Hobart are partially sewered. 
Which municipalities are they. 
To what extent are they partially sewered, and what is the estimated cost of completing sewerage in each of them. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
With reference to the interim answer to question No. 39 1 concerning the number of totally unsewered municipalities in Australia, will he provide whatever information is available to the Department even though it may not be in the form originally requested. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
With reference to the answer to Question No. 195, how was the allocation of financial assistance provided under the Sewerage Agreement Act 1 973 decided. 
Which amounts mentioned in that answer were grants from the Government and which were loans. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) How many Aborigines work in his Department. 
What percentage of total staff in the Department do they represent. 
3 ) What are the names of these persons. 
What positions do they hold in the Department. 
) What is the function of each position. 

 Mr Les Johnson: The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) 1 69 members of staff and 508 industrial employees of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs are Aboriginal. 
19 per cent of staff and 46 per cent of total employees of the Department are Aboriginal. 
(4) and (5) Preparation of a response to these questions would require a considerable outlay of departmental resources, particularly as there is a rapid turnover of Aboriginal industrial employees. 
If the right honourable member requires information on particular persons or positions it will be supplied. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 391 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 1 6 July 1 974. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 392 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 1 6 July 1974. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 1736 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 1 3 November 1974. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 1737 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 1 3 November 1 974. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 1738 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 1 3 November 1 974. 
asked the Minister for Science and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
Further to the answer to question No. 93 in which his predecessor provided a list of research grants allocated by his Department, will environmental research funding now be undertaken by the Department of Environment and, in particular, will assessment of research projects to be funded be undertaken by the Bureau of Environmental Studies which has been established within that Department. 
asked the Minister for Science and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to a library computer system which has now been installed at La Trobe University and of the efforts by the head of that University's Library Technical Services Division to interest other institutions in sharing the use of the facilities that will be available at the University. 
If so, will Government Departments take advantage of this system in preference to developing their own systems independently. 
How does the CSIRO's computer network co-ordinate with this and similar types of computer information systems. 
-The Minister for Defence  (Mr Morrison)  has totally failed to answer the charge. He does not understand the charge. How can we rely upon him as a member of Cabinet to defend the human liberties and rights of individuals if he does not even begin to understand what this is all about? There is no point his going on with histrionics about Vietnam and the post-Tet situation. We now have an issue of civil liberties which has been very brutally assaulted by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  He sends his lap dog, the Minister for Defence  (Mr Morrison),  into the Parliament in an attempt to defend him. Now, with his tail between his legs, he leaves the House as well he ought to do. He talks of Papua New Guinea and the imposition upon refugees entering that country from West Irian of an undertaking not to engage in politics. That was because they were immediately across the border and it was feared that they may cause insurrection within West Irian and use Papua New Guinea as a base for the purpose of warfare. This is why those refugees were told not to engage in politics. That case involved the politics of a country then not determined to be part of Indonesia. The future of that country had not been decided at that stage. It bears no relationship to this issue. 
Thousands of students from all over the world, principally from Asia, have come to Australia under the Colombo Plan. There have been problems in some of the home countries from which those students have come. We have said to the students: 'You have come to Australia to be educated, to go back to your own countries and to make your contribution there. 'While you are in this country you will not criticise the government which has sent you here. We are conducting this plan on a government to government basis'. That bears no relationship to the issue under discussion. What we are talking about is the assault on 9 people. It is true that the issue involves a mere 9 people- only a handful- but their civil liberties have been assaulted by the unilateral act of the Prime Minister of this country. It is immoral. No other word accurately describes his action because it rolls into one, an attack on civil liberties, civil rights and democracy. More particularly, it strikes at migrants, people who have come to this country because they see it as a place where they can live at peace and not be subjected to the strains and stresses of their home countries. Migrants can come to Australia, stand on any street corner and say what they wish about other countries. We are big enough as a country to say: 'Have your civil liberty; have your human rights. Make the comment you want to make. We Australians will not be persuaded by it unless your cause is right. If your cause is right, we will take it up for you'. That is the attitude of Australia, as it should be. 
I ask the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Riordan),  who is sitting at the table and who is the second batter for the Government in this debate: Would you put such an imposition upon those hundreds of people on the ship  Mac.dili  which sailed into Darwin? There are hundreds of refugees now scattered throughout the southern cities of Australia. We do not know yet whether they will live here permanently. Would the Minister undertake to say to them that they must not talk about East Timor, that they must not have an attitude to the UDT- the Timor Democratic Union- and Fretilin or in regard to self-determination of East Timor, its incorporation into Indonesia or its remaining a colony of Portugal? Would the Minister put that upon them? If he would, he should say so. If he would not, he should equally say so and in saying so, bind his Prime Minister. Would the Minister have said to the Greeks of Australia that they should not have complained about the supersession of democracy in Greece by a military coup? Would he have silenced every Greek in Australia? Would he have silenced every Cypriot and everybody who supported the Cypriot cause at the time of the Anatolian Turkish invasion of Cyprus? 
Would the Government put a muzzle on all the Italians who complained about the activities of FILEF- the Federation of Italian Labourers, Emigrants and Families. It is a communist sponsored and financially supported organisation working in Australia. 
It is supported by the Communist Party in subverting our democracy. Will the Government silence every Italian here? Would the Government say that the people of the Baltic States ought not to have complained about the recognition by Australia of the de jure incorporation of the 3 brave democratic States of the Baltic into the Russian monolith? Would the Government muzzle the people of the Ukraine which has had for centuries its experience and history as a nation? The Minister for Defence was talking about the troubles of Ireland. He said: ' What a tragedy; what a shame '.But will he muzzle every Irishman? 
That is what must be attempted if you are to be real about it. Certain facts stand out in the matter. Firstly, the decision was made unilaterally by the Prime Minister. Never before has this been done. The decision represents discrimination against every migrant in this country. No migrant can feel safe that he will not be subjected to deportation if he engages in politics in this country which relate to the politics of his homeland. The decision represents an intrusion on the personal liberty and the freedom of speech of every migrant in Australia. These 9 men were silenced by the threat of deportation. Of course they did not want to be deported because they knew that if they were to be deported to South Vietnam, the Vietcong and the North Vietnamese would have willingly taken them back and put them to death. So they were coerced. I ask Government supporters: Can you feel proud of that coercion of 9 men? It was a case of life or silence. I can understand how those people must feel about that coercion. 
I hope that you can understand,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  how people who believe in civil rights and civil liberties will regard this coercion by the Government and by the action of the Prime Minister as totally reprehensible. The Prime Minister described it as quite a proper undertaking to impose. But he was the man who did it unilaterally. Now he turns judge and makes the judgment that it is quite proper. He does not know why he thinks it is quite proper. We can gather from the very few words he said on the matter under questioning in the House that the action was required because there are very many people on the other side of politics- on this side presumably- both within the Parliament and outside it who will try to exacerbate divisions within the community. Do you not exacerbate the divisions within the community by saying to 9 men: 'Your life or your liberty'? Is that a justification for this action? Would this action lead to the screening of migrants to Australia? With the economic conditions of today not many migrants are being permitted to enter Australia, even for family reunions. But all those migrants could be screened and could be forced to sign an undertaking not to speak about politics which are not to the liking of the government of the day. That would do our reputation as a democracy no good at all. 
We have passed the stage of forcing our migrants to be second class citizens. This action is a direct attack on the migrants of Australia and they ought properly to resent it. But further than that, people who believe in the liberty and the freedom of these people whom we are inviting to Australia to make their home ought to resent this action just as deeply as my colleague the honourable member for Warringah  (Mr MacKellar)  resents it. The Government cannot deport a migrant after granting citizenship but it can deport that migrant before granting citizenship. But if the Government tries to deport a person before the granting of citizenship, that person has a right of appeal to a judge. No judge would uphold that undertaking. No judge would believe that it was a proper imposition. That is a protection to the migrants. I say: Thank God for an independent judiciary. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The right honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
Will he provide statistical information to indicate the degree to which the sewerage backlog has decreased or increased since 2 December 1 972 in each State. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
With reference to the interim answer to question No. 392 concerning the number of partially sewered municipalities in Australia, will he provide whatever information is available to the Department even though it may not be in the form originally requested. 
How many homes were connected to sewerage in each of these principal urban areas during each of the last 5 financial years. 
What is the estimated number of connections during 1974/75. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Can he say how many (a) private and (b) public data banks there are in Australia. 
If so, what are they, where are they, what legislation do they work under, and what is their purpose. 
How many names are held in each data bank and for what reason. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
When will the Minister answer my question No. 1549 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 13 November 1974. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 896 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 2 August 1974. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 1731 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 1 3 November 1 974. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 1733 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 1 3 November 1 974. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 1 134 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 26 September 1 974. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
1 ) Further to Question No 384 regarding the future use of Essendon Airport, what progress has been made by the working party established to investigate this matter. 
On what dates has the working party met, and which departments have attended each meeting. 
When is it expected that the Government will reach a decision on this matter. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) How many persons outside the Australian Public Service have been given wage grants or funds, in one way or another, to enable them to undertake investigation, research or some other type of activity for the Government during the last 12 months. 
What sum is being paid annually to enable individuals outside the Australian Public Service to undertake work on behalf of the Goverment 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
1 ) Further to Question No. 2363 concerning the development of vandal-proof public telephones in Australia, is it considered that companies which are undertaking research and development in this area ought to receive Government  .i  distance or encouragement to pursue their activities; if so, what type of assistance or encouragement. 
Is it considered important that further research be conducted in this area. 

 -The Deputy Prime Minister  (Mr Crean)  said that he would withdraw the word 'disgusted' and use the word 'disappointed'. I am glad that he has moderated his language; I wish he would moderate the Bill, because it is bad. I intend to show why the Bill is bad. The honourable gentleman asks for an objective assessment. Let us have an objective assessment. The single economic area in which we are succeeding today is that of exports. The whole rationale of this Bill is that exports are failing. Does the honourable gentleman not know the figures? Quite clearly exports have expanded at a far more rapid rate than even inflation has in Australia. That is an achievement indeed. But the rationale all hinges upon the lost opportunities in the centrally planned economies and in the oil-rich Middle East countries. The truth is that in the first 1 1 months of the financial year- they are the only figures I have- the volume of exports to both those recipient areas has climbed quite dramatically. The oil-rich countries of the Middle East and the centrally planned economies have taken more of our exports." 
What, then, is the purpose of the Bill. The Deputy Prime Minister says that it is to improve our trading opportunities in those two areas. I quote what he said in his second reading speech: 
The significant areas for such development and diversification are the centrally planned economies and the Middle East oil exporting countries. 
I put to the Minister directly: Does he deny that there has been a marked increase in our exports to both these recipient areas? 
The Minister should look at his figures and then he will apologise. This Bill establishes a trading corporation. The opening words of clause 7(1) are: 
The function of the Corporation is to engage in overseas trade, both as principal and as agent . . . 
The rest of the words in the clause do not matter a row of beans in interpreting the power of the Corporation. The function of the Corporation is to engage in overseas trade both as principal and as agent. This means that, as principal, it can acquire the tide to goods; it can become the owner. Sub-clause 2 of clause 7 provides: 
The Corporation shall carry on business for the purpose of performing its function. 
The Corporation will carry on business for the purpose of performing its function of acquiring title to goods in Australia to export and of acquiring tide to goods overseas to import. That is its purpose. What this Bill proposes to do is to set up the Trading Corporation with all the attributes, powers, privileges, status and capital support that the centrally planned economies set up. In other words, what we are asked to do is to set up a centrally planned economy type organisation in our totally different system in order that we can trade with centrally planned economies. But the centrally planned economies are a small portion, relatively, of our overseas trade. Our biggest trade, as everybody knows, is with Japan, the United States, the United Kingdom, the Common Market countries and New Zealand, which I almost forgot. We do not need such a corporation to trade with all those countries. Are we to change our whole governmental structure and our whole ideological approach of free trade and of free enterprise to establish such a corporation merely so that it can trade with the centrally planned economies, especially when the performance on the board shows that we could trade with centrally planned economies and trade successfully. 
It is important, while looking at clause 7, to examine the powers that are contained in clauses 8 to 13. Quite clearly what we have to do is to look at clause 8. 1 will transgress a little here. We are dealing with clause 7. The functions of the Corporation are contained in clause 7. It relates to acquisition of property and tide to goods, whether it be in Australia or overseas. Clause 8(1) contains paragraphs (a) to (f). All of them have the function of acquiring ownership. The whole purpose of the Corporation is to acquire ownership and then, having acquired such ownership, to dispose of it either in Australia or outside Australia. Clause 9 provides that the Corporation shall not limit the activity of marketing authorities. I would hope not. These marketing authorities have built up tremendous expertise in marketing. As the Minister himself said, deprecatingly of course, our trade with the centrally planned economies is only in primary goods. That, of course, would be done through the marketing organisations, if it were true. It is not totally true. But there is no need, therefore, for this Corporation to be set up in those terms. 
It states in clause 10 that the Corporation is not to compete against other traders. It can compete against other traders and it is not prohibited from going to other countries. It only provides that it cannot compete as an owner of goods with an exporter from Australia. There is no limitation upon it competing with people within Australia with the goods it acquires title of outside of Australia. Clause 1 1 of the Bill states that the Corporation is not to engage in retail trade. There is no prohibition about the Corporation competing in wholesale trade. Indeed, the very purpose of acquisition of goods from overseas is to sell them within Australia. It will do that with wholesale trade. 
Clause 12 provides that the Corporation is not to engage in manufacture except that it can manufacture for the purpose of export the cartoning, presentation and so on. It will be involved in manufacture. Clause 13 is the national interest transaction clause. There is no reason why the Export Finance and Insurance Corporation cannot give the guarantee that can be given by the principal who is in private business. If we take out these functions and realise that they are unsustainable we ask this question: Why set up such a bureaucratic Corporation for these purposes when we do not need it? What we should do is tear the life out of the BUI- take out clause 7- and say that it cannot be a principal, that it can act as an agent only, that it can act with aU the authority of an agent for the principal in Australia who wants to export or to import. 
In clause 8 of the Bill we should remove all the references to the acquisition of proprietary rights in goods, of ownership, and let the Corporation be fully confident to act as agent for principals. It could then serve a purpose. Clause 9 must remain in the Bill. In clause 10 we should delete sub-clauses (1) and (2). Sub-clause 3 refers to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. What is the purpose of appealing to the Tribunal unless it is for the purpose of the Australian Overseas Trading Corporation engaging in competition with people already trading in markets and some body is needed to resolve the difficulties? So there is no need for that sub-clause. 
Clause 1 1 states that the Corporation is not to engage in retail trade. Of course, it should not. It should be prohibited from engaging in wholesale trade also. It should act only as an agent. So clause 11(1) which prohibits the Corporation from engaging in retail trade is necessary but sub-clause (2), which deals with the qualifications in regard to the prohibition, is not. It subtracts from the prohibition as outlined in subclause 1 . The same can be said in regard to clause (12). We should leave in sub-clause (1) which does not authorise the Corporation to engage in the production and manufacture of goods. Clause 12 (2), which subtracts from the prohibition, should be removed. 
I believe that clause 13 is unnecessary because what is proposed in this clause can all be done by the Export Finance and Insurance Corporation in regard to which the Bill proposes that this Corporation should have a close relationship. Then we are left with a corporation that can act as an agent for private enterprise in Australia or for private enterprise that wishes to import into Australia. That would be the proper purpose for which the corporation should be established. That can be done by the Minister's own Department without creating this new corporation which will be over-staffed before very long. It has a capital of $lm. It has a contingent liability of $500m. Obviously, the Government intends it to acquire title after title. I repeat that the Corporation is permitted to have $500m worth of contingent liability. Quite clearly, the Government has in mind that it will be a major corporation, and it should not be. 
asked the Minister for Northern Australia, upon notice: 
What programs did the former Department of the Northern Territory or statutory authorities under his control administer which enable individual groups or people in the community to apply for grants from the Australian Government for a specific purpose. 
What was the name of each program. 
What was the purpose of each program. 
What were the conditions surrounding eligibility for a grant under each program. 
When did each program commence. 
What is the legal authority for the existence of each program. 
How was the community informed of the existence of each program, and its entitlement to apply for a grant 
How many applications for grants under each program have been received in each of the last 3 years or for period of operation of the program if it has been m operation less than 3 years. 
Who decides which applications for grants should be accepted. 
What percentage of applications for grants under each program have been successful in each of the last 3 years or in each of the years in which the program has been operating if it has been in operation for less than 3 years. 
What proportion of total funds allocated under each program in each of the last 3 years, or in each year the program has been operating where it has been in operation for less than 3 years, have been allocated to individuals as against groups. 
12) Are any attempts made to assess the extent to which the widest cross-section of the community is aware of the existence of the program and the means by which applications can be submitted, if so, what attempts. 
What checks are made once applications are received for each program to determine if the attempts to widen access to the funds have been successful. 
Is he confident that the widest cross-section of the community is aware of the existence of the programs, and is aware of the application process. 
What procedures exist to assess the use to which the grants are being put, and to attempt some accountability for the money granted. 
What is the total amount that has been paid out under each program in each of the last 3 years or in each year of the operation of the program if it has been operating for less than 3 years. 
17) What is the total amount of money paid out for all such programs administered by his Department or authorities under his control. 
What attempts are made to ensure that the same individual organisations or persons do not receive several grants under different programs which he or other Ministers are responsible for and which, when added together, may be unwarranted. 
asked the Minister for Science and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
What has been the installation cost of the CSIRO 's computer network. 
What is the annual routing and maintenance cost. 
Where are the locations of the terminals of the network. 
What scientific and technical users outside CSIRO are able to use the network. 
5 ) Who has used it in the last 3 years. 
For what purpose do they use it. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
What action has he taken as a result of the findings of the Youth Say project. 

 Mr BRYANT-The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The findings of the 'Youth Say' Report which were based on discussions with some 1300 young people throughout Australia, about 30 of whom were from the A.C.T., were referred to in some detail by the Minister for Tourism and Recreation in his statement to the House on 10 April 1974 (Hansard pages 1346-1348). 
As the Minister for Tourism and Recreation said, the Report reveals such things as the diversity of young peoples' recreation priorities, their preferences, and needs for social experiences and involvement in the community. The Report points out the challenges facing everyone in this area and is not a blueprint or plan of action for governments or authorities. 
Although the 'Youth Say' Report does not demand action in itself some of its findings do coincide with a number of initiatives which the Department of the Capital Territory has undertaken including: 
The Youth Involvement Programme which enabled twenty-five young people to be creatively involved in the Canberra community during the summer school vacation. 
The allocation of a temporarily unused sports pavilion to a group of young people so they might pursue the recreation activities of their choice under their own rules. 
Provision of several mini bike tracks especially for young people 
Support for the construction of a community activity centre directly linked with the Secondary College proposed for Wanniassa- a new neighbourhood in Tuggeranong. This centre which will be completed in 1979 includes a wide range of community facilities and some space that young people can call their own. The Centre will provide for the social and recreational opportunities that youth and the wider community are seeking. 
Arrangement and encouragement of holiday programmes for young people to provide them with a wide range of activities from which to choose and participate. 
Assistance with the setting up of a magazine to inform young people and the community what's on in Canberra. 
Just as important, however, as these initiatives, are the attitudes adopted by all sectors of the community to young people whether it be in the home, the school or the youth and sporting organisations that work with them. Finally, much rests on the enthusiasm and initiatives of the young people themselves. 
I might add that my department is not responsible for planning or capital works projects in the A.C.T. Nor am I responsible for the commissioning of this particular study or for prompting the general thrust of reaction to the Report. 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 215 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 1 6 July 1 974. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Further to the answers to questions Nos 2343 and 1658, concerning administration of Aboriginal affairs policies, in which he indicated that responsibility for control of health services of Aborigines rests at present with various Australian Government and State Departments of Health, statutory commissions and a variety of similar organisations, some of which are associated with academic institutions, will he list all bodies to which he refers. 
Is it intended that responsibility for this area of Aboriginal affairs will be changed in the future; if so, how. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Further to question No. 1752 in which I sought information about commercial outlets of Aboriginal artifacts in Australia, will he provide, in the interests of open government, details that are available to him. 
In particular, does he know where the outlets are located, who operates them, etc., or is he not interested in informing Parliament as fully as possible on a matter that is of significant interest to the Aboriginal people and which ought to become of increasing interest to all Australians. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
With reference to the answer to Question No. 892 in which his predecessor advised me of details of each of the meetings of the Standing Committees of Australian and State Attorney-General, what progress has been made on- 
a study to provide a basis for uniform laws relating to defamation throughout Australia; 
the commissioning of a joint study to co-ordinate the work of all law reform bodies throughout Australia; 
the establishment by the Government of an institute to train legislative draftsmen, and 
the examination of uniform recording of criminal statistics in Australia. 
asked the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
1 ) Has he or his predecessor received a report from the Australian Broadcasting Control Board outlining ways in which the television reception in areas of Sydney can be unproved. 
If so, what action has been taken on the report. 
If not, when is it expected the report will be received, and will it be tabled. 
asked the Minister for Manufacturing Industry, upon notice: 
1 ) How are copies of Ministerial press releases circulated. 
To whom are they circulated. 
How many copies are circulated in total. 
What is the total annual cost, including salary and administration charges, in producing and distributing Ministerial press releases. 
How many public servants in his Department are involved with the distribution of press releases. 
asked the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 758 which first appeared on the Nonce Paper on 3 1 July 1 974. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade the following question, on notice: 
1 ) What is the advertising budget for his Department for 
1975- 76. 
What types of advertising are entailed in expenditure of this amount. 
What were the corresponding figures for each of the last five years. 
asked the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, upon notice: 
1 ) Under what conditions does the Department subsidise the fares of eminent sportsmen and women and coaches who visit Australia. 
) How does he decide the amount of subsidy. 
asked the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the advertising budget of his Department for 1975-76. 
What types of advertising are entailed in expenditure of this amount. 
What were the corresponding figures for each of the last 5 years. 
-This is a very important part of the Estimates, not for the amount of money that is expended- it is a mere $58,87 1,000-but for the importance which overseas trading has to Australia. It is too often forgotten that Australia is one of the world's great trading nations. In any calculation of the volume of trade done, Australia would fit into the first dozen nations of the world, but more importantly, in terms of the per capita tradethat is, the volume of money involved compared to population- Australia figures very highly. It seems odd to say it but it is obviously a truism: Overseas trade involves both imports and exports. I do not want to speak about imports. I do not want to speak about them because I am perfectly satisfied that there are sufficient entrepreneurs in Australia to take care of the import section of our overseas trade without me being concerned about it. However, I do want to talk about exports. 
The purpose of Australian exports must be to build Australian activity. At the present time we have very great difficulties. We have inflation running at a very high rate on any calculation. Inflation in Australia today would be running somewhere between 16 and 20 per cent per annum. If we take a mid-point and say that it is running at 18 per cent, this demonstrates the great difficulty in which Australian exports are placed. Those who are producing goods for export have the inflation pressures placed upon them but do not always receive increased prices for their goods on the overseas markets to compensate for the increased costs. Inflation in Australia today is weakening the position of Australian exporters. 
When we think of inflation in terms of exporters we must think of the inflation being experienced by our trading partners and competitors. If their rate of inflation is greater than ours we will not be greatly disadvantaged. But if it is less we will be very considerably disadvantaged. That is what is happening in Australia today. We have a situation in which our inflation rate is higher than the inflation rate of a great majority of our trading partners, and that is what is putting the pressure on the great Australian export industries. 
If the competitors of Australian exporters, especially exporters in the manufacturing area, have a lower inflation rate than our own, it will be difficult for our exporters to find markets. What we need to achieve at the present time and in the longer term is a greater level of export for Australia so that our economic response is not limited by a shortage on our balance of payments, on our current account or, for that matter, on our capital account. We must look at the balance of payments on the current account and take that into consideration with the capital inflow which contributes to our capital account. What we want is a better balance on our current account so that we can have a higher level of imports. A higher level of imports can be achieved by increasing the quantity of consumer goods coming into this country, which is not to be recommended, or by increasing the quantity of heavy capital equipment or by increasing the quantity of goods which can be fabricated in this country for re-export or which can be finished in this country and put on the Australian market as import replacements. 
The ideal for us as a country is to have a deficit on our current account. With a deficit on our current account supplemented by a large capital inflow we can have imports paid for by that capital inflow with the increase on our capital account. In that way we can use the capacity of other countries to produce goods especially if they are able to produce goods at a cheaper rate than we can produce them. The ideal for us is to have a high level of imports giving a deficit on the current account and a large capital inflow so that the capital inflow can finance the imports. In that way Australia would grow. We would be able to increase our exports. We would be able to increase our efficiency as a domestic economy. 
Fundamental to what I am saying is the value of the Australian dollar. There is a mixed attitude towards it. Quite obviously, devaluation of the Australian dollar would help rural industries. It would help the mineral industries with the exception of those which have fixed United States dollar contracts or for that matter any other fixed currency contracts if the value of that other currency is not changing at the same rate as the Australian value of our currency. Devaluation would also help the manufacturing exporters. But in doing so it would have a very serious impact upon our efforts to contain inflation in this country. It would be in fact quite disastrous to Australia for the Australian dollar to be devalued at the present time. Bearing in mind that our reserves stand at over $3, 000m, it could be argued that there is no way in which such a devaluation could be justified in terms of international monetary movements. 
Conversely, revaluation of the Australian dollar would harm the 3 areas of rural exports, mineral exports and manufacturing exports. Money values of currency have been quite dynamic, especially in the case of the United States dollar, which is recovering so rapidly. It is interesting to make some comparisons between the United States dollar and other currencies for the 6-month periods September 1974-March 1975 and March 1975-September 1975. The United States dollar depreciated 15 per cent against the Deutsche mark in the first 6-month period. It appreciated 15 per cent in the second 6-month period. Against sterling the United States dollar depreciated 5 per cent between September 1974 and March 1975 and appreciated 17 per cent between March 1975 and this month. Against the Australian dollar it depreciated 4 per cent in the first 6-month period and appreciated 7 per cent in the last 6-month period. So it can be seen that changes in currency values have been quite dynamic. 
The Australian dollar must come under a threat of devaluation because of the pressure of inflation in Australia. There is no doubt whatever that this threat will exist while inflation remains at its present level. But there is no reason why devaluation should take place at the present time. There is every reason why we should aim at maintaining the value of the Australian dollar. In terms of our overseas trading account, that is very important to us. It is important too that our overseas trade stands up so that we can achieve the development of Australia that we desire. 
The rural industries are traditionally great overseas traders. These $6 billion industries contribute $4 billion to our overseas balance of account each year. We must keep them going. But these industries face a very real threat because of the rise in costs. The mineral industries are the great industries of promise; manufacturing industries are the great industries of potential. Our job is to make sure that we balance tariffs with a much larger level of exports. It is of enormous importance to us that we be able to maintain our position as a great trading nation, for without the maintenance of our great trading position we will find that the freedom of action that we want to take in economic management will be foreclosed from us. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation, upon notice: 
What is the name of each publication prepared by the Department of Repatriation and Compensation for distribution to the public. 
How often is the publication printed. 
Which offices of the Department are responsible for the preparation of each publication. 
What is the purpose of each publication. 
5 ) What is the cost of each edition of the publication. 
How many copies of each edition of the publication are produced. 
How many people receive the publication. 
Is it distributed free of charge. 
If so, to whom and how is it distributed to them. 
If not, what is the selling cost of the publication and what are the retail outlets. 
When was the publication first produced. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Will he provide a list of all moneys that have been paid by the Government to each local municipality in Australia in addition to those moneys allocated by the Grants Commission, and will he indicate the scheme under which each amount to each Council has been allocated; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it a fact that an amount of more than $18,000 has been allocated in Queensland under the Australian Assistance Plan for citizens information centres at Blackwater, Emerald and Biloela. 
If so, did the Minister for Social Security seek his advice prior to the approval of these projects; if so, when; if not, why not. 
) Do these projects conform with his own Department 's activities in this area. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Matters Relating to the Public Service, upon notice: 
Has the Prime Minister now abandoned his promise prior to the 1972 election to reduce the working hours of all Commonwealth employees by 1 Vi hours, to 35 hours. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
Will the Minister provide a list of all bodies in Australia concerned with forestry research indicating where they are located, their funds, the size of the research support staff, the research programs being undertaken and the way in which each organisation determines which research programs will be undertaken. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the advertising budget of his Department for 1975-76. 
What types of advertising are entailed in expenditure of this amount. 
What were the corresponding figures for each of the last 5 years. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
What is the advertising budget of his Department for 1975-76. 
What types of advertising are entailed in expenditure of this amount. 
What were the corresponding figures for each of the last 5 years. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) How many officers or employees of his Department or of authorities under his control are employed on research and development work. 
) Where are they employed. " ( 3 ) What is the nature of the work being undertaken. 
What is the total expenditure per annum in maintaining this research and development program. 
Who decides the nature of the programs or projects included in this research and development work. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation, upon notice: 
What programs does the Department of Repatriation and Compensation or statutory authorities under the Minister's control administer which enable individual groups or people in the community to apply for grants from the Australian Government for a specific purpose. 
What is the name of each program. 
What is the purpose of each program. 
What are the conditions surrouding eligibility for a grant under each program. 
When did each program commence. 
What is the legal authority for the existence of each program. 
How is the community informed of the existence of each program, and its entitlement to apply for a grant. 
How many applications for grants under each program have been received in each of the last 3 years or for the period of operation of the program if it has been in operation less than 3 years. 
Who decides which applications for grants should be accepted. 
What percentage of applications for grants under each program have been successful in each of the last 3 years or in each of the years in which the program has been operating if it has been in operation for less than 3 years. 
1 1 ) What proportion of total funds allocated under each program in each of the last 3 years, or in each year the program has been operating where it has been in operation for 'less than 3 years, have been allocated to individuals as against groups. 
Are any attempts made to assess the extent to which the widest cross-section of the community is aware of the existence of the program, and the means by which applications can be submitted; if so, what attempts. 
What checks are made once applications are received for each program to determine if the attempts to widen access to the funds have been successful. 
14) Is the Minister confident that the widest cross-section of the community is aware of the existence of the programs, and is aware of the application process. 
What procedures exist to assess the use to which the grants are being put, and to attempt some accountability for the money granted. 
16) What is the total amount that has been paid out under each program in each of the last 3 years or in each year of the operation of the program if it has been operating for less than 3 years. 
What is the total amount of money paid out for all such programs administered by the Department of Repatriation and Compensation or authorities under the Minister's control. 
What attempts are made to ensure that the same individual organisations or persons do not receive several grants under different programs which the Minister or other Ministers are responsible for and which when added together, may be unwarranted. 

 -Mr Deputy Chairman - 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  put: 
asked the Minister for Manufacturing Industry, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 1652 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 1 3 November 1 974. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 1156 which first appeared on the notice paper on 26 September 1 974. 
asked the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, upon notice: 
1 ) Is he responsible for the Government's Youth Policy? 
If so, is it a fact that grants have been made by the Minister for Social Security under the Australian Assistance 
Plan, totalling more than $14,000, for a Youth Centre at Emerald and a Youth Drop-in Centre at Rockhampton? 
If so, was his advice sought by the Minister for Social Security before these projects were approved; if so, when; if not, why not? 
How do these projects fit within the Youth Policy program that his Department is charged with administering? 
asked the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it a fact that a project has been approved by the Minister for Social Security under the Australian Assistance Plan for Youthsay research into community needs of youth conducted by the South West Sydney Youth Workers and Leaders. 
If so, did the Minister for Social Security seek his advice before approving the project to ensure that it conformed with the activities his Department is pursuing in this area; if so, when, and what was his response; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for Northern Australia upon notice: 
1 ) What is the advertising budget of his Department for 1975-76. 
What types of advertising are entailed in expenditure of this amount. 
What were the corresponding figures for each of the last 5 years. 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
What is the advertising budget of the Department of Social Security for 1975-76. 
) What types of advertising are entailed in expenditure of this amount. 
What were the corresponding figures for each of the last 5 years. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Further to question No. 2843 concerning the return to the Government of property purchased by organisations in the community with Government funds, is any onus placed upon regional councils for social development, or other community bodies in receipt of Government funds, to return to the Government items which were purchased with Government funds but for which the organisation no longer has a need, even if the organisation continues to operate and has pot been dissolved. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Which sections of his Department are concerned with aspects of safety. 
What is the nature of the involvement in this area, and how many officers are involved. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the advertising budget of his Department for 1975-76. 
What types of advertising are entailed in expenditure of this amount. 
What were the corresponding figures for each of the last 5 years. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the advertising budget of his Department for 1975-76. 
What types of advertising are emailed in expenditure of this amount. 
What were the corresponding figures for each of the last five years. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What is the advertising budget of his Department for 1975-76. 
What types of advertising are entailed in expenditure of this amount. 
What were the corresponding figures for each of the last 5 years. 
asked the Minister for Enrivonment upon notice: 
Further to the answer to question No. 2173 in which he provided a list of research projects that have been completed or are currently being undertaken by the Bureau of Enrivonmental Studies, will he indicate which of the projects listed are new in the sense that they were commenced after the formation of the Bureau of Environmental Studies. 
When is it expected that each of the studies will be completed and what procedures will be used to disseminate the findings of each project. 
asked the Minister for Environment, upon notice: 
1 ) Further to questions Nos. 2370 and 2829 concerning the distinction between the Bureau of Environmental Studies and the work of the CSIRO on environmental matters, how will the Bureau establish areas where a need exists and which have not been adequately studied by other research bodies. 
In particular, how does the Bureau intend to keep itself informed of the research being conducted by statutory authorities of the Australian Government, as well as State Government departments and statutory authorities, to ensure there is no duplication of research. 
asked the Minister representing the Special Minister of State, upon notice: 
Has the Minister's attention be drawn to a library computer system which has been installed at La Trobe University and of the efforts by the head of that University's Library Technical Services Division to interest other institutions in sharing the use of the facilities that will be available at the University. 
) If so, will Government Departments take advantage of this system in preference to developing their own systems independently. 
How will plans being developed by the National Library for the implementation of Albis be designed to incorporate this particular library system and others that are being developed. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) Does the Government provide funds for the purchase of books for school libraries. 
If so, what sum was provided in 1974-75 and does the Government encourage schools with significant migrant intakes to purchase books in the more widely represented ethnic languages, particularly books relating to the history and culture of the students' country of origin or that of his or her parents ' country of origin. 
Has he had discussions with the Minister for Labor and Immigration on this question: if so, when, and with what result. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
1 ) Will the Minister provide a list of all inquiries relating to immigration since 2 December 1 972. 
Which inquiries have resulted in reports to the Government. 
When were they received by the Government. 
When were they tabled. 
5 ) What was the purpose of each inquiry. 
What action has been taken on each of the recommendations of each of the inquiries. 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
1 ) Further to Question No. 2 1 5 concerning the feasibility studies into the development of a uranium enrichment plant in Australia, which Departments of the Australian Government are involved in studying this development. 
What are the terms of reference of the study in which Japan and Australia are co-operating. 
What is the expected date of completion of this study. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation, upon notice: 
When will the Minister answer my question No. 1560 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 13 November 1974. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation, upon notice: 
When will the Minister answer my question No. 1589 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 13 November 1974. 
asked the Minister for Science and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
Further to question No. 2836 and part (4) of his answer to the question concerning the CSIRO 's computer network, which State Government departments and intrumentalities use the CSIRO, and which commercial users have used the CSIRO computer network. 
On what basis were the facilities made available to such organisations in each instance. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation, upon notice: 
1 ) Which sections of the Department of Repatriation and Compensation are concerned with aspects of safety. 
What is the nature of the involvement in this area, and how many officers are involved. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Which sections of his Department are concerned with aspects of safety. 
What is the nature of the involvement in this area, and how many officers are involved. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Can he say what is the membership of the Centre for Research on Federal Financial Relations at the Australian National University. 
What is the membership of the Research Advisory Committee. 
What reports have been produced and on what topics. 
When were they produced. 
How many copies of each report have been distributed. 
Who decides the distribution of each report 
To whom have they been distributed to date. 
What is the total working budget for the Centre. 
From whom does it receive its working funds. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
What programs does his Department or statutory authorities under his control administer which enable individual groups or people in the community to apply for grants- from the Australian Government for a specific purpose. 
) What is the name of each program. 
What is the purpose of each program. 
What are the conditions surrounding eligibility for a grant under each program. 
When did each program commence. 
What is the legal authority for the existence of each program. 
How is the community informed of the existence of each program and its entitlement to apply for a grant. 
How many applications for grants under each program have been received in each of the last 3 years or for the period of operation of the program if it has been in operation less than 3 years. 
Who decides which applications for grants should be accepted. 
What percentage of applications for grants under each program have been successful in each of the last 3 years or in each of the years in which the program has been operating if it has been in operation for less than 3 years. 
What proportion of total funds allocated under each program in each of the last 3 years, or in each year the program has been operating where it has been in operation for less than 3 years, have been allocated to individuals as against groups. 
12) Are any attempts made to assess the extent to which the widest cross-section of the community is aware of the existence of the program, and the means by which applications can be submitted; if so, what attempts. 
What checks are made once applications are received for each program to determine if the attempts to widen access to the funds have been successful. ' (14) Is he confident that the widest cross-section of the community is aware of the existence of the programs, and is aware of the application process. 
What procedures exist to assess the use to which the grants are being put and to attempt some accountability for the money granted. 
What is the total amount that has been paid out under each program in each of the last 3 years or in each year of the operation of the program if it has been operating for less than 3 years. , ( 17) What is the total amount of money paid out for all such programs administered by his Department or authorities under his control. 
What attempts are made to ensure that the same individual organisations or persons do not receive several grants under different programs which he or other Ministers are responsible for and which, when added together, may be unwarranted. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Will he provide a list of all schemes under which grants for loans or any form of assistance is provided to Aborigines or Aboriginal groups. 
What is the purpose of each scheme. 
When did each scheme commence. 
What sum has been allocated under each scheme in each year of its operation. 
Who is responsible for deciding allocation of money under each scheme. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in matters relating to the Public Service, upon notice: 
What is the estimated cost of providing office accommodation and furniture for every new public servant appointed to the Public Service. 
What was the growth in employment in the Public Service in the last 12 months. 
What was the growth in terms of cost of office accommodation and furniture that accompanied this growth in employment. 
What was the growth in the costs of salary, office accommodation and general costs associated with a new employee that accompanied this growth in employment. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the Minister for Social Security has appointed  Ms Eva  Learner to the Social Welfare Commission as a Welfare Education Consultant to provide advice on curriculum in the context of educational programs developed within institutes such as universities, colleges of advanced education and technical colleges, concerning training for social work. 
If so, is this the kind of activity that is being pursued by the Curriculum Development Committee also, and will he ensure that there is no doubling up of activities. 
asked the Minister representing the Special Minister of State, upon notice: 
What is the advertising budget of the Department of the Special Minister of State for 1 975-76. 
What types of advertising are entitled in expenditure of this amount. 
What were the corresponding figures for each of the last 5 years. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What is the estimate of the increase in income tax collection for each 0.5 per cent increase in average weekly earnings beyond the forecast 22 per cent during 1 975-76. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Which sections of the Department of Social Security are concerned with aspects of safety. 
What is the nature of the involvement in this area and how many officers are involved. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the advertising budget of his Department for 1975-76. 
What types of advertising are entailed in expenditure of this amount. 
What were the corresponding figures for each of the last 5 years. 
-I support this proposal. I think it is desirable that we put the proposal in the context of constitutional development and the need for reform of the Constitution in Australia. Quite clearly a constitution which has had its form for 90 years, although it has been operative for only 75 years, needs some amendments to bring it up to contemporary requirements. What we need to think about first is the reaction of people to government. People see the Commonwealth Government, State government and local government bodies. What people are concerned about is that they get services as they require them from the best area of government to provide the particular form of service. The ordinary citizen is not concerned whether the service comes from the Commonwealth, State or local government provided it is given in the best form and provided it is given in the most economical form; that it is value for money. It was out of these sorts of considerations that the original impetus for a convention on the Constitution commenced in Victoria and it was in Victoria that the call for a convention came. It was picked up by all the States and by the Commonwealth. In due course a convention was put together in Sydney in 1973. 
At that convention there was a very great deal of goodwill from all political parties from all the State parliaments and from the Commonwealth Parliament. Added to it there was, of course, local government representation. The purpose of the convention was to find a rationale for the necessary amendments which could make the Constitution respond to contemporary needs. What was seen at that time was that there should be a whole package of constitutional amendments which would be put to the Australian people by referendum. That has not been done. There has been a piecemeal approach to amendments to the Constitution and those that have been put up over the last  2lh  years have all failed. I believe that some of those constitutional amendments could have been successful if they had been separated and yet been put as part of a whole refurbishing of the Constitution. 
Under the terms of this constitutional proposal it will be put separately again and for that I think criticism can be levelled at the Government and perhaps the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  directly, but there is no point in engaging in that sort of criticism. It will serve no purpose. What we need to do is to look at this Bill and to ask: 'Should this legislation be passed so that a referendum can be conducted of the Australian people?' What the outcome of that referendum will be one cannot know. Certainly if this had been approached in a different way there could have been almost a certainty of the referendum being successful. I doubt now that there can be ascribed to it that certainty. For my part I would like to see the Bill passed in this House, passed in the Senate, the proposal put to a referendum and succeed because I believe it is a very worthwhile referendum proposal. 
The Constitution, as it binds the Commonwealth and the States, can be altered in 3 ways. It can be altered by referendum. It can be altered by the reference of powers from the States. It can be altered  de facto  by decisions of the High Court on constitutional cases. For my own part I do not like to leave to judicial decision the interpretation of the Constitution into a contemporary document. It is a difficult task to impose upon the judiciary and it does not enable consultation with the Parliaments by way of reference or consultation with the people of Australia by way of referendum. This is not to be taken as criticism of the High Court. On the contrary, I have the highest respect and regard for it. But it is not proper that constitutional development in Australia should  de facto  rely upon judicial interpretation of the Constitution by the High Court. 
When the Constitution was being drawn up a provision was put in section 5 1- it is in section 5 1 that the great majority of the powers of the Commonwealth Parliament are to be found- at placitum (xxxvii), which provides that matters can be referred to the Parliament of the Commonwealth by the parliaments of the States. Very little use has been made of that provision. Basically, one can say that the 2 major references have been in regard to air transport in Queensland and Tasmania, as I remember it, and Tasmania also referred power in respect of trade practices to the Commonwealth. There were some other references which are now defunct. One of the reasons for the lack of use of this provision was that the State parliaments did not know, because there was no sufficient judicial interpretation, whether they could refer powers for a limited period, whether they could revoke the powers once given or whether if they gave them, they forever rested with the Commonwealth. There were also some doubts as to whether if there was a reference of power it would be a power which remained with the States to pass legislation which would then be effected only by section 109 which would give the pre-eminence of legislative authority to the Commonwealth. 
Against those doubts the States did not use the provision. Also, there was a very serious shortcoming in that although the States could refer power to the Commonwealth there was absolutely no provision which enabled the Commonwealth to refer power to the States. So when the Constitutional Convention met in Sydney one of the first items that was listed was this very question. The report of the Australian Constitutional Convention in 1973 shows that the list of topics for discussion included as the very first item: 
The uncertainties concerning the power of State parliaments to refer power to the Parliament of the Commonwealth [Section 5 1 , placitum (xxxvii).] 
Indeed it was this very question of the interchange of powers which had largely led to the movement for a convention. A case had been decided by the High Court in which it was held that the exercise of the States applying a receipt duty tax was an excise power and it was therefore unconstitutional for the States to do it. The States asked the Commonwealth to impose the tax, or the excise as it ought properly to be referred to, and the Commonwealth agreed to impose the State receipts duty tax as a Commonwealth excise. But the legislation, introduced in the 1 970 Budget, was rejected by the Senate. It is an interesting echo from the past in today's context as to the power of the Senate in relation to money Bills. In fact in 1 970, because it was politically advantageous at the time, the Labor Opposition in the Senate rejected that Bill. That meant a restructuring of the Budget of the day. The amount of money involved, if my memory serves me correctly, was of the order of $300m. The Commonwealth therefore had to provide the money out of revenues not collected from the citizens. In any event, in order to get rational financial relationships with the States, the Commonwealth seriously contemplated the possiblity of giving the States excise powers to impose taxes. Equally, the States were anxious to have that power so that they could exercise what they regarded as responsible government in raising taxes and being answerable for them. At the same time there are many other powers which would be better exercised by the Commonwealth than by the States. So there was mutuality between the Commonwealth and the States for a refurbishing of the Constitution to put powers in the appropriate parliaments where they would be exercised better. 
That is the origin of this piece of legislation. The proposal was put to the meeting of the Constitutional Convention in Sydney. Outside the Convention a dinner was held by the Prime Minister at which 5 of the Premiers attended. After the dinner it was announced that there was agreement in principle to such a constitutional amendment to enable the transfer of powers both from the States to the Commonwealth and vice versa from the Commonwealth to the States. That was in 1973. In the 2 years since there has been a great deal of consideration of the matter by the Constitutional Convention Committees. There has been a great deal of discussion by parliamentary counsel as to the proper wording of this legislation which in turn will become a question to put to the people in a referendum. It is a very complicated piece of legislation. I see the First Parliamentary Counsel,  Mr Comans,  sitting in the gallery of the chamber. I am sure that he has had some part in the drafting of this Bill. I do not want him or anybody else to understand that this is an accusation of inelegance in drafting when I say this: When one looks at this Bill it is perfectly clear that a great number of people will not understand it and they will rely heavily upon their confidence and trust in lawyers and politicians who do understand it to be satisfied, as people voting, which is the correct course of action to take. 
The Bill proposes to insert in the Constitution 2 new sections, section 108a and section 108b. For my own part I do not see any problems whatever with the proposed new section 108b. In fact its provisions are drafted in a straightforward manner and I have no difficulty with them at all. However, some of the States must have some difficulties in relation to proposed new section 108a. Proposed new section 108a (1) is quite clear as to what it means on its wording, but 108a (2) would present a great deal of problems to some people who are concerned that the Constitution is not changed from its basic federal concept to render it a more centralist constitutional document. Proposed new section 108a (2) reads: 
The power of the Parliament of the Commonwealth to designate a matter under this section is not limited by the provisions of this Constitution other than this section. 
That will raise great fears on the part of many people that the Bill is proposing to alter the Constitution quite dramatically by allowing the Commonwealth to pick up a piece of power, which it now does not have, and give it to the States. I think 2 things can be said about it. One is that it is very unlikely that the Commonwealth would attempt to give the States a power which it does not itself possess. The second thing is that I believe, on the meaning of the words, that the Commonwealth cannot designate more power than the remainder of the Constitution itself in fact gives to it. In any event, there will be argument as to the meaning of it. There may also be argument as to the meaning of proposed new sub-clause (3.), which I will not bother to read but which needs to be put in the context of proposed new sub-sections (2.) and (4.). The three of those need a great deal of examination before we will satisfy people's minds that they can readily and properly vote in a referendum for this change to the Constitution. 
My colleague, the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard),  the shadow Minister for consumer affairs, has already said that the 
Opposition side of the House supports this Bill in principle. I very strongly support it in principle but we are confronted with the problem of what happens today in relation to this Bill. We could, if there were the numbers on the Government side, just push it through the House. We could use the power of numbers to push it through this House. Then it would go to the Senate. If it failed in the Senate it could nevertheless be brought into this House a second time. The numbers could be used to push it through again and it could become a referendum proposal to be put to the people. Under those circumstances I feel that the possibility of its passing would be very seriously damaged. 
As I am in support of the principle of the Bill and, subject to more consideration of sub-section (2.) of proposed new section 108a, in support of the legislation as it stands, I do not welcome the prospect of the referendum being damaged by that sort of procedure. I would therefore suggest that the proper course for us today is to consider the matter of principle as we are now doing at the second reading stage and the matter should then be put to a vote on the second reading. I would expect that in those circumstances there would be no voice in this House opposing the second reading of the Bill. If it received unanimous support in this House then the prospects of it being accepted in the referendum would be improved. It would also not have the effect of binding anybody at this stage to the exact words of the Bill. 
I pointed out that there will be doubts about three of the proposed new sub-sections. I think they can be resolved. I want to make that clear. But there is no point in my being satisfied and the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  being satisfied. It is the voters who need to be satisfied because they have to make the decision and they will have to put their trust, as I said before, in people whom they respect for integrity. The support and the trust they have will be so much the greater if there is a unanimous decision. I would therefore suggest that we put aside the Committee stage of this Bill for a sufficient period to allow the States to respond specifically on the issues of drafting. The parliamentary counsel are well advanced in their consideration so governments can respond, and respond quite quickly. 
Finally, I draw attention to section 128 of the Constitution, which is the section which deals with referendum changes to the Constitution. It will be seen on looking at that section that the process of calling for referendum is such that if the necessary legislation passes this House but does not pass the Senate and is passed by this 
House a second time it can still go to referendum. But there is another provision that even if that course is taken it will still be open to both Houses to agree to amendments to the proposal that is actually put to referendum. So with a spirit of cooperation in which this should be resolved it is up to both sides of the House to adopt the course I have suggested, wait for advice from the States and then consider our position. I would hope that the outcome of such a course will be co-operative unanimity for the passing of this important referendum. I think that if it is passed it will make a giant contribution to the future constitutional government of Australia. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
What programs does his Department or statutory authorities under his control administer which enable individual groups or people in the community to apply for grants from the Australian Government for a specific purpose. 
What is the name of each program. 
) What is the purpose of each program. 
What are the conditions surrounding eligibility for a grant under each program. 
5 ) When did each program commence. 
What is the legal authority for the existence of each program. 
How is the community informed of the existence of each program, and its entitlement to apply for a grant. 
How many applications for grants under each program have been received in each of the last 3 years or for the period of operation of the program if it has been in operation less than 3 years. 
Who decides which application for grants should be accepted. 
What percentage of applications for grants under each program have been successful in each of the last 3 years or in each of the years in which the program has been operating if it has been in operation for less than 3 years. 
What proportion of total funds allocated under each program in each of the last 3 years, or. in each year the program has been operating where it has bees in operation for less than 3 years, have been allocated to individuals as against groups. 
Are any attempts made to assess the extent to which the widest cross-section of the community is aware of the existence of the program and the means by which applications can be submitted; if so, what attempts. 
What checks are made once applications are received for each program to determine if the attempts to widen access to the funds have been successful. 
Is he confident that the widest cross-section of the community is aware of the existence of the programs, and is aware of the application process. 
What procedures exist to assess the use to which the grants are being put, and to attempt some accountability for the money granted. 
What is the total amount that has been paid out under each program in each of the last 3 years or in each year of the operation of the program if it has been operating for less than 3 years. 
What is the total amount of money paid out for all such programs administered by his Department or authorities under his control. 
What attempts are made to ensure that the same individual organisations or persons do not receive several grants under different programs which he or other Ministers are responsible for and which, when added together, may be unwarranted. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
When will the Minister answer my question No. 1715 which first appeared on the Notice paper on 13 November 1974. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Which sections of the Postmaster-General's Department are concerned with aspects of safety. 
What is the nature of the involvement in this area, and how many officers are involved. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
What are the present functions of the Commonwealth Employment Service? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the advertising budget of the Department of Labor and Immigration for 1975-76. 
What types of advertising are entailed in expenditure of this amount. 
What were the corresponding figures for each of the last 5 years. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
Was it a pre-election promise of the Australian Labor Party to embark upon an uninterrupted program of grants to enable the principal water and sewerage authorities to provide services to all the premises in their areas by 1 978. 
If so, how was an assessment made of the backlog then existing so that a date of 1 978 could be arrived at. 
What was the total backlog, in the areas intended, in 1972. 
What is the estimated backlog in these areas now, if all areas, not just centres eligible for the national sewerage program, are included. 
When does he expect the Labor Government's 1972 promise will be fulfilled. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade the following question, upon notice: 
1 ) Which sections of his Department are concerned with aspects of safety. 
What is the nature of the involvement in this area, and how many officers are involved. 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
1 ) Which sections of his Department are concerned with aspects of safety. 
What is the nature of the involvement in this area, and how many officers are involved. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
1 ) Which sections of the Department of Agriculture are concerned with aspects of safety. 
What is the nature of the involvement in this area, and how many officers are involved. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
. Which sections of the Department of Foreign Affairs are concerned with aspects of safety. 
What is the nature of the involvement in this area, and how many officers are involved. 
asked the Minister for Northern Australia, upon notice 
1 ) Which sections of his Department are concerned with aspects of safety. 
What is the nature of involvement in this area, and how many officers are involved. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Police and Customs, upon notice: 
Which sections of the Department of Police and Customs are concerned with aspects of safety. 
What is the nature of involvement in this area, and how many officers are involved. 
I support the Bill to establish in Tasmania a maritime college. It is an important measure. It is heartening to see the Government finally adopt some of our policies, though it is depressing to note the drawn out process by which it finally decided to act. This Bill provides the start to fulfil a long overdue need to improve training for seagoing personnel, for those operating trading vessels and fishing vessels in the fishing industry. The fishing industry will become a very great industry in Australia. It is a great pity that it has not developed as yet. There are two reasons for that. Basically, it has an inadequate capital structure and availability of capital to fishermen especially the owner-operator fishermen, and secondly a lack of trained crews. This proposal will make a contribution. 
The Liberal and National Country Parties were first to announce a policy to establish a merchant marine college. We gave this undertaking in April 1974. It was an undertaking; it was not merely a request to a royal commissioner to tell a government whether it should establish a college. That is what the direction to the royal commissioner was, a request to tell the Government whether it ought to establish the college. We made that commitment and we have stuck by that commitment. We gave an undertaking in our policy at the 1974 election. In March of this year we announced that a Liberal-Country Party Government would site the national merchant marine college in Tasmania and, subject to the approval of the Tasmanian State Government, at a site associated with the northern division of the Tasmanian College of Advanced Education, that is, in Launceston. 
Subsequently, in May 1974, the Government received a report from Commissioner Summers as part of the commission of inquiry into the maritime industry which recommended urgent action to establish a merchant marine college as part of the existing College of Advanced Education, near the sea and close to a major centre of population and fishing operation, as part of the tertiary education system in Australia, funded like any other college of advanced education. The report supported the previously expressed views of the joint Liberal-Country Parry Opposition. I am quite sure that  Mr Summers  applied himself and reached conclusions on objective grounds. We had anticipated his decision, and no doubt we helped his decision by our commitment. It is disappointing that legislation to give interim effect to the establishment of the Maritime College is only now before the House 17 months after that report was received. 
There have been and will continue to be enormous changes in the size and structure of Australia's shipping industry. The movement in recent years has been towards larger and more sophisticated ships and special purpose ships. This has significant implications for training needs. All the statistics indicate that a modern fleet requires smaller crew numbers with higher skills to ensure greater efficiency and safety. It has long been recognised that Australia is heavily reliant on overseas trained personnel, especially from the United Kingdom. A drying-up of this recruitment can have serious implications for the future development of our shipping industry. Despite the fact that only 25 per cent of the total Australian Work force is overseas born, in the period from 1965 to 1973 63 per cent of deck officer entrants into shipping came from overseas. Forty percent of engineer officer entrants and deck and engine room ratings came from overseas. All of this reinforces the urgency for this college. 
Despite the clear need, it took a by-election finally to force the Government to make a move. Tasmanians recall with amusement that if it had not been for the Bass by-election Labor would never have chosen Tasmania for the site. Over the past 3 years Tasmanians have watched the Labor Government decide to establish any number of institutions on the mainland. They have watched the Labor Government actively promote new growth centres and forget existing centres such as Hobart and Launceston, which need encouragement and development. 
The honourable member for Denison interjects and asks how I can say that. I can say that because you have failed to look after Tasmania's interests in this House, and somebody who will care for Tasmania and Australia will soon replace you. Tasmanians have been faced with severe penalties from this Government for being unfortunate enough to be so far from Canberra that they are beyond the gaze of the central machine which has been established here in Canberra. They have not been adequately represented by the Labor members from Tasmania. That is why the honourable member for Bass  (Mr Newman)  got such an overwhelming vote in the by-election. 
It took a by-election, and a panic stricken Government, to remember Tasmania. The Liberal and National Country parties have never forgotten Tasmania. We have published detailed policy statements on a range of matters of significance to Tasmania, of which the Maritime College is only one. We have got a bigger job to do, but we will do it; the Labor Party will not. Our early announcement to site the Maritime College in Tasmania months before the Government was forced into it by the Bass by-election is an instance of our genuine concern. Every member of the Opposition is committed to a policy program to ensure that Tasmania is no longer neglected. Tasmania is as much a part of Australia as is any other State, and we are not prepared to allow Tasmania to remain a depressed State, as it now is. Labor has treated Tasmania as the Commonwealth 's poor cousin. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
Further to the answer to question No. 2360 in which he indicated that he supports the transport policies being developed jointly by the Department of the Capital Territory and the National Capital Development Commission aimed at providing an efficient public transport system for Canberra, what are these policies that he supports. 
asked the Minister for Manufacturing Industry, upon notice: 
Does he intend to take action on the stated view of the reconstituted Textiles and Apparel Industry Advisory Panel that the Government should make a policy statement indicating future objectives, so that forward planning can proceed on a definite basis. 
asked the Minister for Science and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Which sections of his Department are concerned with aspects of safety. 
What is the nature of the involvement in this area, and how many officers are involved. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Which sections of his Department are concerned with aspects of safety. 
What is the nature of the involvement in this area, and how many officers are involved. 
asked the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, upon notice: 
1 ) What was the nature of the research conducted by the Girl Guides ' Association of Australia into the effectiveness of existing youth programs, which was undertaken with a grant from the Australian Government. 
) Has the research been completed. 
If so, was a report prepared, and are copies available. 
asked the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, upon notice: 
What was the result of the work undertaken by the Joint Board of Christian Education to investigate the role played by churches in youth work with the aid of a grant from the Australian Government. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What publications are produced in foreign languages by the Department or authorities under his control. 
What is the general nature of the publications. 
In what languages are they published. 
When were they first published in this way. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
When will he answer my Question No. 1561 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 1 3 November 1 974. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
Which sections of his Depanment are concerned with aspects of safety. 
What is the nature of the involvement in this area, and how many officers are involved. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) Which sections of his Department are concerned with aspects of safety. 
What is the nature of the involvement in this area, and how many officers are involved. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
1 ) Which sections of his Department are concerned with aspects of safety. 
What is the nature of the involvement in this area, and how many officers are involved. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
Which sections of the Department of Labor and Immigration are concerned with aspects of safety. 
What is the nature of the involvement in this area, and how many officers are involved. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) Which sections of his Department are concerned with aspects of safety. 
2 ) What is the nature of the involvement in this area, and how many officers are involved. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
What is the advertising budget of his Department for 1975-76. 
) What types of advertising are entailed in expenditure of this amount. 
What were the corresponding figures for each of the last 5 years. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
Further to question No. 1736, what will be the total cost, at current prices, of bringing sewerage connections in metropolitan dues to 100 per cent. 
asked the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice: 
Does he intend to pursue a proposal by his predecessor to establish a National Housing Inspection Service; if so, how will the service operate, and what is its expected annual cost; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister representing the Special Minister of State, upon notice: 
1 ) Which sections of the Department of the Special Minister of State are concerned with aspects of safety. 
What is the nature of the involvement in this area, and how many officers are involved. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Which sections of his Department are concerned with aspects of safety. 
2 ) What is the nature of the involvement in this area, and how many officers are involved. 
asked the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
1 ) Which sections of his Department are concerned with aspects of safety. 
What is the nature of the involvement in this area, and how many officers are involved. 
asked the Minister representing the Special Minister of State, upon notice: 
What publications are produced in foreign languages by the Department or authorities under the Minister's control. 
What is the general nature of the publications. 
In what languages are they published. 
When were they first published in this way. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
What publications are produced in foreign languages by the Department or authorities under his control. 
) What is the general nature of the publications. 
In what languages are they published. 
When were they first published in this way. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What are the titles of the reports tabled by Ministers since February 1973 which have not been distributed to Members in the usual way but a copy of which has been placed in the Parliamentary Library for the information of Members. 
When was each report tabled. 
What is the situation relating to reports in the corresponding preceding period. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
With reference to the answer to question No. 38 1 in which the Minister for Urban and Regional Development indicated that the Department of Urban and Regional Development is examining various taxation provisions to curb land speculation, including capital gains taxes, is (a) his Department and (b) the Australian Taxation Office involved in this examination; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for Manufacturing Industry, upon notice: 
1 ) Which sections of his Department are concerned with aspects of safety. 
What is the nature of the involvement in this area, and how many officers are involved. 
asked the Minister for Environment, upon notice: 
1 ) Which sections of his Department are concerned with aspects of safety. 
What is the nature of the involvement in this area, and how many officers are involved. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 1323 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 16 October 1975. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) Which sections of his Department are concerned with aspects of safety. 
What is the nature of the involvement in this area, and how many officers are involved. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) What publications are produced in foreign languages by the Department or authorities under his control. 
) What is the general nature of the publications. 
In what languages are they published. 
When were they first published in this way. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
What publications are produced in foreign languages by the Department or authorities under his control. 
What is the general nature of the publications. 
3 ) In what languages are they published. 
When were they first published in this way. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What procedures has he set in train to ensure that all relevant Departments examine those suggestions and recommendations of Professor Henderson's first main report on poverty which can be put into effect immediately or over a longer term, particularly those recommendations that do not involve large costs but which, if introduced, would, according to Professor Henderson, greatly assist those in need. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Police and Customs, upon notice: 
What publications are produced in foreign languages by the Department or authorities under the Minister's control. 
What is the general nature of the publications. 
) In what languages are they published. 
When were they first published in this way. 
asked the Minister for Manufacturing Industry, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it a fact that a grant of $5,900 has been made by the Minister for Social Security under the Australian Assistance Plan to the South-West Sydney Regional Social Development Council for a centre for mothers supporting a child or children. 
If so, did the Minister for Social Security seek his advice on this project before approving it because of the extensive involvement that the Department of Manufacturing Industry has in this type of area; if so, when. 
Does this project conform with the activities the Department of Manufacturing Industry is pursuing; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for Manufacturing Industry, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it a fact that grants of more than $2,000 have been made to Lakemba Public School and Petersham Baptist Church under the Australian Assistance Plan for after school programs. 
If so, did the Minister for Social Security seek his advice before approving these projects to ensure they conformed with activities that the Department of Manufacturing Industry is pursuing in this area through the Children 's Commission; if so, when, and what was his response; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
What publications are produced in foreign languages by the Department or authorities under his control. 
) What is the general nature of the publications. 
In what languages are they published. 
When were they first published in this way. 
asked the Minister for Manufacturing Industry, upon notice: 
1 ) What publications are produced in foreign languages by the Department or authorities under his control. 
What is the general nature of the publications. 
) In what languages are they published. 
When were they first published in this way. 
asked the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
What publications are produced in foreign languages by the Department or authorities under his control. 
What is the general nature of the publications. 
3 ) In what languages are they published. 
When were they first published in this way. 
-The purpose in moving the suspension of Standing Orders- 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  put: 
That the right honourable member for Bruce be not further heard. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
Is consideration being given to the proposal to preserve an area of land at Mt Cotteril as a park and recreation area. 
If so, who is involved in the consideration of this matter, and what progress has been made. 
asked the Minister for Manufacturing Industry, upon notice: 
1 ) Further to the answer to question No. 429 in which he indicated that  Official  estimates of expected demand and expected levels of employment in the brick industry for the next 5 years are not available, what is the reason that the estimates are not available. 
Can he provide any estimate in answer to this question. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
1 ) What publications are produced in foreign languages by the Department or authorities under the Minister's control. 
What is the general nature of the publications. 
In what languages are they published. 
When were they first published in this way. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
1 ) What publications are produced in Foreign languages by the Department or authorities under his control. 
What is the general nature of the publications. 
In what languages are they published. 
When were they first published in this way. 
asked the Minister for Science and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) What publications are produced in foreign languages by the Department or authorities under his control. 
What is the general nature of the publications. 
In what languages are they published. 
When were they first published in this way. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
1 ) What publications are produced in foreign languages by the Department or authorities under the Minister's control. 
What is the general nature of the publications. 
In what languages are they published. 
When were they first published in this way. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
What support has been provided by the Australian Government to Aboriginal Arts and Crafts Pty Ltd in each of the last 5 years. 
What has been the total annual turnover at each of the offices of the company in each of the last 5 years. 
How many people are employed at each office. 
Does he have any information relating to the annual turnover of each of the retail outlets for Aboriginal artefacts which he listed in reply to my earlier question No. 2847. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) What publications are produced in foreign languages by the Department or authorities under his control. 
) What is the general nature of the publications. 
3 ) In what languages are they published. 
When were they first published in this way. 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1) Has the Minister noted the suggestion recorded in Professor Henderson's poverty report that, as a means of assisting migrants, a footnote be included on official letters in a large number of languages, inviting the recipients to tick a box and return the footnote if they wish to have the letter provided in another language. 
What is the Minister's attitude towards this suggestion and, in particular, will the Minister set in train an examination of the feasibility of adopting such a suggestion in a number of relevant Departments even if only on a limited trial basis initially. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
What is the Minister's attitude to the recommendation of the Poverty Commission that the involvement of the Commonwealth Employment Service with unemployment benefits be restricted to providing certificates of unemployability in the way a doctor does for sickness benefit so that unemployment beneficiaries would deal directly with offices or agencies of the Department of Social Security in the same way as other beneficiaries. 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) What publications are produced in foreign languages by the Department or authorities under the Minister's control. 
What is the general nature of the publications. 
3 ) In what languages are they published. 
4 ) When were they first published in this way. 
asked the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, upon notice: 
1 ) What was the nature of the research program conducted by the Young Men's Christian Association of Australia, which was funded by a grant from the Australian Government. 
Has the research program concluded. 
If so, was a report prepared, and are copies of the report available. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
Further to Question No. 2239 in which I sought information about the question of altering existing Government buildings wherever possible to improve the access and facilities available for disabled people, what action has been taken by the Government to achieve progress in this area since 2 December 1972. 
asked the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice: 
1 ) Which sections of his Department are concerned with aspects of safety. 
) What is the nature of the involvement in this area, and how many officers are involved. 
asked the Minister representing the Special Minister of State, upon notice: 
When will results of the National Survey of Household Income and Expenditure carried out by the Australian Bureau of Statistics in August 1973 for the Poverty Commission be available to the Commission, to the Government and the public. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
Will the Minister give the statistics necessary which will enable a judgment to be made as to the trend of accident frequency in government departments and agencies. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
1 ) Has he noted Professor Henderson's conclusions in his report on poverty that a major extension of rent control apparatus is against the long-term interest of tenants. 
If so, what is his attitude to Professor Henderson's conclusion. 
If he agrees with them, will he suspend rent control procedures in the Australian Capital Territory; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
What publications are produced in foreign languages by the Department or authorities under his control. 
) What is the general nature of the publications. 
In what language are they published. 
When were they first published in this way. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
What publications are produced in foreign languages by the Department or Authorities under his control. 
What is the general nature of the publications. 
In what languages are they published. 
When were they first published in this way. 
asked the Minister for Northern Australia, upon notice: 
1 ) What publications are produced in foreign languages by the Department or authorities under his control. 
2 ) What is the general nature of the publications. 
3 ) In what languages are they published. 
When were they first published in this way. 
asked the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, upon notice: 
What was the result of the work undertaken by the Scripture Union of Australia, with a grant by the Australian Government, to prepare a report in consultation with youth workers in the drop-out/unattached area. 
asked the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the Asian Youth Council. 
What role does Australia have in it. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
1 ) What programs does the Department of Labor and Immigration or statutory authorities under the Minister's control administer which enable individual groups or people in the community to apply for grants from the Australian Government for a specific purpose. 
What is the name of each program. 
What is the purpose of each program. 
What are the conditions surrounding eligibility for a grant under each program. 
5 ) When did each program commence. 
What is the legal authority for the existence of each program. 
How is the community informed of the existence of each program, and its entitlement to apply for a grant. 
How many applications for grants under each program have been received in each of the last 3 years or for the period of operation of the program it it has been in operation ess than 3 years. 
Who decides which applications for grants should be accepted. 
What percentage of applications for grants under each program have been successful in each of the last 3 years or in each of the years in which the program has been operating if it has been in operation for less than 3 years. 
What proportion of total funds allocated under each program in each of the last 3 years, or in each year the program has been operating where it has been in operation for less than 3 years, have been allocated to individuals as against groups. 
Are any attempts made to assess the extent to which the widest cross-section of the community is aware of the existence of the program, and the means by which applications can be submitted; if so, what attempts. 
What checks are made once applications are received for each program to determine if the attempts to widen access to the funds have been successful. 
14) Is the Minister confident that the widest cross-section of the community is aware of the existence of the programs, and is aware of the application process. 
What procedures exist to assess the use to which the grants are being put, and to attempt some accountability for the money granted. 
What is the total amount that has been paid out under each program in each of the last 3 years or in each year of the operation of the program if it has been operating for less than 3 years. 
What is the total amount of money paid out for all such programs administered by the Department of Labor and Immigration or authorities under his control. 
What attempts are made to ensure that the same individual organisations or persons do not receive several grants under different programs which the Minister or other 
Ministers are responsible for and which, when added together, may be unwarranted. 
asked the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice: 
1 ) What publications are produced in foreign languages by the Department or authorities under his control. 
What is the general nature of the publications. 
In what languages are they published. 
When were they first published in this way. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
When will the Minister answer my question No. 1557 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 13 November 1974. 
asked the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice: 
1 ) Further to question No. 1384 concerning co-operative housing and medium density housing, to what use will the research project on medium density housing by the Housing Research Branch of the Division of Building Technology and Sociology be put. 
How many officers are involved in the research project, and what is their background in training and experience. 
Is it intended that State Government Departments should also take pan in the project as well as local government planning authorities. 
Are other departments of the Australian Government involved in the project; if so, which departments. 
5 ) What will be the total cost of the project. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the recent decision announced by the Minister for Housing and Construction that Commonwealth Hostels Limited will pay ex-gratia payments to local government bodies with migrant and other Australian Government hostels in their area, in lieu of rates. 
Is it intended that this principle should be extended to apply to the operations of all Government departments. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade the following question, upon notice: 
1 ) What publications are produced in foreign languages by the Department or authorities under his control? 
What is the general nature of the publications? 
) In what languages are they published? 
When were they first published in this way? 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
1 ) What publications are produced in foreign languages by the Department or authorities under his control. 
What is the general nature of the publications. 
3 ) In what languages are they published. 
When were they first published in this way. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Matters Relating to the Public Service, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the function of the Management Consultancy Division of the Public Service Board. 
Was it intended to perform many of the management consultant assessments of Public Service departments and authorities that are currently being performed by management consultants outside the Public Service. 
What is the total annual cost of maintaining the Management Consultancy Division. 
How many officers are located in the Division. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
1 ) Which sections of his Department are concerned with aspects of safety. 
What is the nature of the involvement in this area, and how many officers are involved. 
-I wish to express my appreciation for the high honour that the House has been pleased to confer upon me.  (Mr Speaker having seated himself in the Chair) 
